28-10-2021||Lucknow||NGT chairperson for focus on poverty, pollution and population||National Green Tribunal (NGT) chairperson Justice AK Goel on Thursday said focus was needed on poverty, pollution and population as they make a great impact on resources.“There is a need for discussion on population control,” he said at the two-day UP climate change conclave-2021 that began here.“India has the world’s 2.4% land share, but the population share is 17.5%. This way, the land and population ratio is a mismatch in the country which needs focus,” the NGT chairperson said.“India’s contribution to global warming is 3%, but it is among the worst sufferers of the same in the world. Significantly, a study says in the past 50 years India’s population multiplied three times and its agriculture land grew by 20%,” the NGT chairperson added.“Law has its role and it can take care of a situation where there is violation. In case of a situation that is not in the law, a new law can also be made,” he said, addressing a technical session on “role of environmental legal framework in climate action” at the conclave. The NGT chairperson said there are existing laws on plastic waste, e-waste, hazardous waste and other categories to deal with all types of situations. “Conservation of energy is a key issue,” said the NGT chairperson.UP’s law minister Brijesh Pathak pointed towards the state’s focus on laws to deal with situations for better implementation of rules.During the session, 18 new continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations were also launched that would function in different cities of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ngt-chairperson-for-focus-on-poverty-pollution-and-population-101635445788103.html
28-10-2021||Dehradun||Amit Shah to begin BJP’s poll campaign in Uttarakhand on October 30||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit Dehradun on October 30 and begin BJP’s election campaign in the hill state which is going for polls early next year. BJP state general secretary Kuldeep Kumar said Amit Shah will address a public rally in Dehradun on October 30, beginning the party’s election campaign in Uttarakhand. He said the party is holding meetings at various levels to review the preparations for the rally and make it a massive one. “This will be a massive rally where Amit Shah will address people and share his vision for the development of the state. Lakhs of people and party workers will participate in the rally,” he said. Kumar said BJP is confident that the people of the state will again repose their trust in the party and ensure their victory in the 2022 assembly polls. All party leaders and workers have been asked to go into their areas and apprise other workers about the mega rally and encourage them to participate in it in a big way. This will be Amit Shah’s second visit to the state in recent times. On October 21, Amit Shah had conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in the Kumaon division of the state, while assuring the state government of “every possible assistance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/amit-shah-to-kickstart-bjp-s-election-campaign-in-uttarakhand-on-october-30-101635444947989.html
28-10-2021||Other||Lucknow: Rakabganj intersection named after writer Yogesh Praveen||Lucknow Now, Rakabganj Crossing will be known as Yogesh Praveen intersection. The new name was announced here on Thursday by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who inaugurated the crossing, in the presence of state law minister Brajesh Pathak and mayor Sanyukta Bhatia. Sharma said, “Yogesh Praveen was a close friend of mine, who used to share his thoughts on many topics and his memories cannot be forgotten. He wanted his home to be converted into a museum for poets, writers and literary persons. He was a born writer and poet, and a true representative of Lucknow culture.” “Yogesh Praveen was known as an encyclopedia of Lucknow. By reading his books you can know everything about Lucknow. His books are the biggest gift for the coming generation,” the deputy CM said. Speaking on the occasion, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “Yogesh Praveen introduced the culture of Lucknow to the world through his books, he was a brilliant writer, who also won a national award for his book ‘Lucknownama’.” Yogesh penned beautiful heart touching songs for the film Junoon and Bollywood actor Shashi Kapoor was fond of his skills as well, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-rakabganj-intersection-named-after-writer-yogesh-praveen-101635444649676.html
28-10-2021||Noida||Falcon caught in manjha rescued in Okhla, police help to sought fight menace||A Eurasian Hobby, a small slender falcon, was rescued by birders at Okhla bird sanctuary on Thursday morning after it was spotted entangled in a sharp manjha (kite string).Birders, along with a forest official, rushed the bird to an animal rescue centre. The bird was later released in Okhla bird sanctuary after receiving necessary treatment. “We saw the Hobby struggling to free itself at the other side of the bridge in Okhla bird sanctuary around 7am. Though we removed the manjha, the bird did not fly as it was injured. A fellow birder, Dr Diwakar Rao, volunteered and took the bird to a wildlife rescue centre nearby, along with a forest official. The bird was saved but the problem of manjha persists,” said Jaswinder Singh Waraich, a Noida-based birder.This is not the first such incident where a bird was stuck and or injured by a manjha, said the birders.“Just about ten days ago, we untangled another Hobby, which was stuck in manjha and was hanging by a tree. It is a very common sight here. We often remove as much as manjha as we can and also request the forest department to do so,” said Rohit Sharma, another birder based in Noida who helped rescue the bird.“There are several cases of bird injuries, primarily due to nylon manjha. It is referred as Chinese manjha but is locally manufactured. Today, the Eurasian hobby brought to us was unwinded from the manjha but was stressed and had mudded wings. It was later released after a thorough cleanup,” said Muhammad Soud, who runs an NGO ‘Wildlife Rescue’ in Delhi’s Wazirabad. A small but graceful falcon that performs a fast flight in pursuit of flying prey, the Eurasian Hobby is about 33cm in length. One of the rare winter visitor, the Eurasian Hobby is a passage migrant and comes to this region for about a month or a few weeks.Meanwhile, an official from the forest department said manjha is a menace for the sanctuary. Many such kite strings are found in the sanctuary due to the kites that fall here from neighbouring residential areas such as Jamia Nagar.“Manjha, especially Chinese manjha, is a menace as it makes its way to the sanctuary and does not decay quickly. We are writing an official letter to the police stations of the concerned areas to check and curb the sale of Chinese manjha in their areas as it is a threat to the birds in the sanctuary,” said P K Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/falcon-caught-in-manjha-rescued-in-okhla-police-help-to-sought-fight-menace-101635444350044.html
28-10-2021||Noida||Rightwing groups want sedition charges for those who raised pro-Pakistan slogans||Hundreds of members of rightwing groups gheraoed the Sector 20 police station and blocked traffic on Thursday, demanding that those who allegedly chanted pro-Pakistani slogans during a religious procession on October 19 in the city be booked for sedition. Members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and its youth wing Bajrang Dal stopped their agitation after the police assured them they would take necessary action. Umanand (who goes by his first name), leader of the VHP, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “ We have video evidence to prove that pro-Pakistan and anti-India slogans were raised during a religious procession taken out on the occasion of Barawafat or Milad-Un-Nabi (a day marking the birth and death of prophet Mohammad) on October 19.”He claimed 36 people had raised slogans, of whom only three were arrested. “We demand that all the culprits be booked for sedition,” he said.According to Noida police, pro-Pakistan slogans were allegedly raised during a religious procession here in the city, after which three people were arrested on October 20, a day after the procession, and charged with Section 153 of the IPC (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot). The arrests were made on the basis of a purported video, which surfaced on social media, said police“Some pro-Pakistan slogans were raised during the procession of Barawafat on October 19 in the city. We detained three men, who were instigating others to raise slogans. Today (Thursday), the protesters demanded we book those who raised the slogans for sedition. We are still investigating the matter and will take appropriate action,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida. The protesters also disrupted traffic on Thursday. “The traffic was diverted via Sector 10-21 route in view of the gathering on the road outside the police station. Efforts are on to restore normalcy,” said Noida traffic police on Twitter.Protestors also claimed that similar slogans were raised after Pakistan beat India in the T20 World Cup cricket match held on October 24; however, no proof has as yet emerged.Notably, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said sedition charges will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan’s victory against India in the recent T-20 World Cup match.“Those celebrating Pakistan’s victory will face sedition,” a tweet posted from the official handle of Adityanath’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rightwing-groups-want-sedition-charges-for-those-who-raised-pro-pakistan-slogans-101635443991373.html
28-10-2021||Other||Lucknow: LESA to lay armoured power cables to check pilferage||Lucknow In order to check power thefts and line losses, Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) has decided to lay armoured cables in Chowk, Thakurganj and Aminabad areas where line loss is maximum, according to an official of the LESA. As all steps, including power supply through aerial bunch conductors, have in the past failed to check line losses in these areas. The LESA would soon start the work to connect the houses with armoured cables from poles, said the official on the condition of anonymity.“The aim is to reduce the line loss through armoured cables. Power theft by using shunts, which is a frequent practice in these areas, will be made difficult with laying of armoured cables, which are highly insulated with three extra protective layers to keep it away from unwanted cut or damage. These cables are laid down from meter to pole so that they cannot be breached and tampered with,” the officer said. Meanwhile, chairman of UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Committee Avadhesh Varma said, “We fight for honest power consumers not for the cheats. Due to some power stealers the situation remains worrisome, especially, in Chowk, Thakurganj and Aminabad areas. Cheats have been adopting different techniques to steal electricity. If the department has decided to supply power from poles to houses through armoured cables, then there is nothing to worry for genuine consumers.” He added, “The line loss in Aminabad, Chowk and Thakurganj remains above 30% due to power pilferage as electricity stealers are using new ways of tampering. Armoured cables will be of limited use in absence of strict monitoring by the officials. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-lesa-to-lay-armoured-power-cables-to-check-pilferage-101635443927935.html
28-10-2021||Noida||Directions issued to clean Hindon river ahead of Chhath Puja in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) has directed departments concerned to clean and maintain 61 locations for hosting Chhath Puja this year, said officials on Thursday.The locations also include different banks of river Hindon, where devotees will arrive on November 10 and 11, 2021, to offer prayers in the river water. GMC officials said that temporary ponds will be created in different localities for devotees for the same.“We have directed the departments concerned to start cleaning, beautifying, supplying electricity with street lights, and creating provision of drinking water, changing rooms for women, among other facilities. One special control room will also be set up at the main river bank adjacent to Grand Trunk (GT) Road. The work will commence soon, and the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department will release water into the river before the festival... Artificial/temporary ponds will be dug up in different localities for the devotees for offering prayers. These are for those who won’t be able to go to the river banks,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.Lakhs of devotees celebrate the festival in the region, which majorly include people from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh.“We held several meetings with the officials concerned regarding arrangements which need to be done well ahead of the puja. Our main concerns are sufficient water supply to river Hindon, and cleaning of the river banks. It is estimated that about seven lakh devotees in the region offer prayers during the festival... However, the officials concerned have assured that sufficient fresh water will be released into the river by November 8, so that devotees can offer prayers without any hassle,” said Rakesh Tiwari, national general secretary of ‘Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad’ -- a socio-cultural association having mostly the residents of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. According to the residents, the river water is contaminated at present. “People suffer from allergies and see other harmful effects after taking a dip in the river water. So, fresh water supply is needed to wash away the pollutants. We are expecting that fresh water will be released into the river before the festival,” said Gyanendra Kumar, a devotee from Arthala.The officials of the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department, meanwhile, said that their counterparts from Meerut are making arrangements to release water into the river. “Water from the Upper Ganga Canal will be routed through the Jani escape into river Hindon. Our department officials from Meerut are making arrangements for the same. It is expected that clean water will be available in the river before the festival,” said Sanjay Singh, executive engineer of Uttar Pradesh irrigation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/directions-issued-to-clean-hindon-river-ahead-of-chhath-puja-in-ghaziabad-101635443688007.html
28-10-2021||Other||FIR against Ludhiana SAD-BSP candidate for casteist remark||Ludhiana Pritpal Singh Pali, the candidate of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance from Ludhiana Central constituency, has been booked under the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at the Moti Nagar police station on Thursday. Pali, also the president of the management committee of the Gurudwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib, Ludhiana, is accused of hurting religious sentiments and using banned words during speech as part of a protest at Samrala Chowk against a Hindu organisation leader, Anil Arora, on October 25 (Monday). Arora also faces a case of hurting religious sentiments. On Thursday afternoon, members of the Valmiki Samaj staged a protest against Pali at the Bharat Nagar Chowk and blocked traffic. Finally, police assured them of action and an FIR was lodged against Pali on the statement of Vicky Sahota, former vice-chairman, Safai Karamchari Welfare Commission.Moti Nagar SHO inspector Vijay Kumar said a case under the SC/ST act has been lodged against Pritpal Singh Pali.In his defence, Pali posted a video on his Facebook page, where he claims that he has not used derogatory words against any community. “Someone has morphed my video of the protest to defame me. I believe in all religions, but I still apologise from the Valmiki Samaj if any of my words have hurt anyone,” he says in the video. HT tried to contact him after the FIR, but his phone remained switched off till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-ludhiana-sad-bsp-candidate-for-casteist-remark-101635443627875.html
28-10-2021||Noida||Traffic police prohibits entry of heavy vehicles in Ghaziabad||In order to decongest the areas with the most crowd during the festive season, the Ghaziabad traffic police have issued a diversion plan barring the entry of heavy traffic vehicles (HTVs) in the city from October 29 to November 7. They have also diverted autos from some stretches to alternate routes during the same period. According to the diversion plan rolled out on Thursday, the traffic police said all heavy vehicles entering the city from the Lal Kuan intersection (on GT Road) will be diverted to Loha Mandi and then will have to take the Vivekanand Flyover to proceed to Hapur Road and ALT Centre, Raj Nagar. “From there, vehicles can proceed to their respective routes towards Meerut, etc. Likewise, the heavy vehicles travelling from Mohan Nagar will use the rotary near the Hindon river Metro station and can proceed to ALT Centre. We have also decided that all autos plying between Lal Kuan and Mohan Nagar will use the Thakurdwara Flyover and not the surface road,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). Apart from the diversion for heavy vehicles, the plan also includes another diversion for autos which ply between the Old Bus Station and Chaudhary Morh. “All the autos plying on this route will be barred from doing so November 2 to November 5 to avoid congestion in markets such as Chopla, Turab Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, etc, in the Old City. The entire diversion plan is aimed at decongesting areas in the city where there is heavy rush during the festival. As long as the diversions are in place, there will be two big temporary parking spaces where people can park their vehicles and go to the markets on foot,” said the SP. The two temporary parking spaces have been proposed at Nehru Yuva Kendra at Ambedkar Road and at the Ghanta Ghar Ramlila ground, adjacent to GT Road. Traffic officials said they will take strict action against those persons whose vehicles are found parked on the roadside as such a situation will lead to traffic congestion, which in turn will spike the air quality index reading. “We have asked the traffic police to coordinate and manage various congestion points during the festival. Vehicular pollution due to congestion contributes to the city’s air pollution levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board. Ghaziabad city already implemented a Graded Response Action Plan to curb air pollution as directed by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and the adjoining areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-police-prohibits-entry-of-heavy-vehicles-in-ghaziabad-101635443567959.html
28-10-2021||Noida||Six residents, security guards of Noida housing complex detained after clash||Police have detained six people for interrogation after a clashes broke out between two residents and an unknown number of security guards at a housing complex in Noida’s Sector 39 on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday.The move came after a video of the incident, where some security guards could be seen beating up two residents of a housing complex late Wednesday night, went viral on social media.Police said an argument broke out between the two residents, who were inside a car, and several security guards at the entry gate of the residential complex, allegedly over the non-availability of a society parking sticker on the vehicle. Soon, the argument spiralled out of control and a security guard purportedly pushed the car driver,” said police citing CCTV footage.Senior police officers said they are aware of the clashes but have not received any written complaint yet. An investigation is underway, they added.“The matter was reported to the police late Wednesday night... According to video footage, it appears that some security guards hit the two men. However, the matter is being investigated and six people have been called in for questioning at the Sector 39 police station,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-residents-security-guards-of-noida-housing-complex-detained-after-clash-101635443268097.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||14 more bridges in Mumbai to undergo repairs||After announcing repair of 14 bridges in the city last week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now plans to repair 14 more bridges. The decision of the repair work was taken in the wake of the audit conducted after the collapse of Himalaya Bridge in 2019. According to BMC officials, these 14 bridges were added to the list as the audit found them to be vulnerable. A BMC official from the bridges department said, “Overall, there are 50 such small bridges that are being taken up for repair and reconstruction in phases. We are also going ahead with similar works for the Bandra skywalk in the coming days.” The total cost of the work on the 14 bridges is around ₹5.45 crore and the repairs are expected to be completed by the end of 2022. Of the 14 bridges, repairs on three bridges are major, while on the remaining 11 are minor. The bridges up for minor repairs are the bridge one near TB Hospital on Acharya Donde Marg, foot overbridge at AK Marg in Mahim and one bridge on Arthur Road in Chinchpokli. Further, the 11 bridges that will be taken up for major repairs include Sion Subway both the north and south side, Sion hospital flyover, Nanalal D Mehta flyover, Tulpule flyover, Sarasvati School foot overbridge, Sion pumping station foot overbridge, GTB station foot overbridge, JK chemical culvert, Lovergrove culvert, Cleaveland culvert and Kamlanagar Vehicular culvert. The bids for their repairs have been floated by the BMC. In the earlier list of 14, six bridges are going to be taken up for major repairs and eight for reconstruction post demolition. The vehicular bridges that are going to be repaired or reconstructed include one in Malwani area in Malad, Hindustan Nallah Bridge on Charkop Road, vehicular bridge connecting Lokhandwala and Laxmi Nagar in Andheri west and vehicular bridge crossing Mithi River on Andheri-Kurla Road. Further, the BMC tender document has stated, “Vehicular traffic in the construction area shall be regulated with the help of the Traffic Police Authority. However, pedestrian movement in the area should not be affected during the entire construction period. Hence, before starting the work barricading, signals, warning signals etc shall be provided, in order not to affect the pedestrian movement and the utilities.” Meanwhile, part demolition of Bandra skywalk is expected to start post Diwali for which the bids were floated in August 2021. The BMC has decided to demolish and rebuild part of the city’s first skywalk in Bandra East. The decision has been taken by the BMC owing to structural defects pointed out by a third-party auditor. Owing to this, traffic on the station road leading to Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) is expected to be hit. According to BMC officials, the stretch between Bandra East station and Western Express Highway will be demolished and rebuilt at the cost of around ₹16.20 crore. In 2019 during monsoon, a portion of the skywalk at Bandra (East) fell, injuring a woman. Apart from the Bandra skywalk, more 23 skywalks are due to undergo major repairs or demolition and reconstruction. Post the, the Himalaya Bridge collapse at CSMT in March 2019, the BMC had appointed Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) suggesting major repairs for all 24 skywalks including the one at Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/14-more-bridges-in-mumbai-to-undergo-repairs-101635442847977.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Snatcher held for targeting two politicians at Connaught Place||A 29-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for snatching the mobile phone of a woman politician on October 23 in Connaught Place. Police said his attempt to snatch the phone of a second woman politician, half an hour later the same night, was foiled.Police said the man allegedly snatched the mobile phone of Nutan Singh, national chief general secretary (women’s wing) of Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party (Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras’s faction), while she was in the outer circle with five people, including her husband Neeraj Singh, around 10pm on October 23.Within half an hour, the scooter-borne suspect tried to snatch the cellphone of Amba Prasad, Congress legislator from Barkagaon constituency in Jharkhand’s Hazaribagh district. The woman MLA was speaking to someone over the phone and was with her relative when the man attempted to snatch her phone away near PVR Plaza in the inner circle of Connaught Place, but failed, police said.Both the politicians registered cases at the Connaught Place police station and an Inspector (anti-terrorist officer, ATO), who was looking after the work of the station house officer (SHO) in his absence, began an investigation. The teams scanned nearly 20 CCTV cameras and found that both the crimes were committed by the same suspect who was riding a scooter, said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.The CCTV cameras installed near both the crime spots only captured the scooter but its registration number was not clear. Investigators scanned more cameras on the routes that the suspect took. Since he fled towards Daryaganj, they suspected that he could be from that area. Through the human intelligence network and examining dossiers of habitual criminals from that area, the team identified the suspect as one Tauseef Khan and caught him with the scooter that he used in the crime. They also recovered the Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party (RLJP) leader’s stolen cellphone, said the officer quoted above.“We arrested the snatcher and recovered the stolen phone,” said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav.According to Delhi Police data, Delhi reported 5,108 snatching cases till October 15 this year -- 851 more than the number reported during the same period in 2020.Police said that Khan was found to be involved in at least three more crimes, including that of sexual harassment. Unlike most snatchers who work in pairs, Khan worked alone, police said.Expressing happiness over the recovery of the stolen phone, the RLJP leader’s (Nutan Singh’s) husband Neeraj Singh praised the Delhi Police team for their swift action. Neeraj Singh is also an office-bearer in the same party.“We were walking in the outer circle when a scooter rider took a sharp turn in front of us. I was scolding the rider for his rash riding when he suddenly snatched my wife’s phone from her hand. Before we could react, he sped away with the phone. I think he had already identified my wife as a soft target,” he said.He said a police team reached the crime scene within two minutes after they informed the police control room. They took the couple to the police station where their complaint was recorded and converted into a first information report (FIR).“The inspector and his team showed us some CCTV camera footage and we identified the suspect’s scooter. They assured us they would recover the stolen phone and did so within four days,” he added.Congress MLA Amba Prasad, who is the youngest legislator in the Jharkhand Legislative Assembly 2019, could not be reached for comment despite multiple calls and a text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisnatcher-held-for-targeting-two-politicians-at-connaught-place-101635442667782.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch unearths illegal share trading worth ₹6,840 crore, arrests four||Mumbai crime branch has busted a major illegal share trading racket and arrested four accused from Ghatkopar in the case. A scrutiny of the computer systems of the four accused, conducted in the presence of senior Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE) officials, has revealed that in the past seven months, they had allegedly unlawfully carried out share trading worth ₹6,840 crore, outside the legitimate systems of BSE and NSE. The police suspect that the accused have evaded multiple government taxes, causing a loss to the government exchequer, worth thousands of crores of rupees. The four alleged illegal share traders also used hawala channels for money transactions, said the police.According to the police, illegal share trading – commonly known as ‘dabba trading’ – is a proxy unauthorised market with its own trading laws and legislation. It is a process through which a broker routes the client to trade outside the stock exchange. The bucketing acts as an operator who functions away from crowded business areas. Dabba trading is also done through various apps for buying/selling stocks in illegal market. With the help of a software, transactions occur in various parts of the country.The police said based on reliable information, crime branch unit-7 officers, along with BSE assistant general manager Kiran Sawant and NSE chief manager Prakash Tanna on Wednesday raided two flats in a building in Vikhroli. “The officers discovered that 11 persons were unlawfully trading in shares without having permission or licences for it. When NSE and BSE officials inspected the Tally software in the accused people’s laptops and computers, it found that the turnover of illegal share trading of an accused, Rajesh Patel, 33, was of ₹4,900 crore between July and October, while another accused, Shailesh Nanda, 38, had a turnover of ₹1,300 crore between June and October. The third accused, Dinesh Bhanushali, 38, had a turnover of ₹639 crore between April and October,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity of name.The fourth accused has been identified as Mahesh Kataria, 38. The others present at the spot during the raids were the employees of the four accused, said the police. The crime branch has seized cash worth ₹5.9 lakh, 45 mobile phones, three pen drives, five laptops, a computer, seven hard disks and a note-counting machine from the accused. “The accused, by means of illegal trading, allegedly evaded security transactions tax, capital gain tax, state government stamp duty, SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) turnover fee and exchange trading revenue, causing huge revenue losses to the exchequer,” said another police officer.Further probe has revealed that the accused had allegedly used code names for their investors. The police are trying to crack these code names.The accused allegedly accepted money from investors through hawala using code words and did not give any contract note for sale and purchase of shares and crucially, did not inform SEBI.It is suspected that all these transactions were done in cash through Angadiya facility and the accused invested black money in it, said the police. The police are also investigating if the money was used for any illegal or terrorism-related activities. The four accused were remanded in police custody till November 2 by a local court on Thursday. More arrests are likely to take place in the coming days.Considering the high magnitude of the case, the case has been transferred to the economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-unearths-illegal-share-trading-worth-6-840-crore-arrests-four-101635442547808.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs-on-cruise case: Mumbai Police summons NCB informer||Mumbai Police’s team which has begun an inquiry against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, based on the complaint of Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the Aryan Khan cruise drug case, has summoned another controversial panch witness Manish Bhanushali to record his statement. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activist Bhanushali is an informer of NCB and based on his tip-off, the agency had raided the ship early this month.Bhanushali was among the nine independent witnesses of the NCB, which also includes KP Gosavi, who was involved in the cruise ship raid, which led to the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, along with others.The Mumbai Police’s inquiry team has also visited seven places that Sail had mentioned in his affidavit. “He showed these places to the police officers to corroborate his claims about extortion by the NCB officers,” sources said.Meanwhile, on Thursday, another police complaint was submitted against Wankhede at the MRA Marg police station, wherein advocate Jayesh Wani sought a first information report (FIR) for the offence of cheating and forgery, along with a criminal conspiracy case against Wankhede, over his caste certificate row. Mumbai Police’s inquiry team is headed by the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Azad Maidan division, Milind Khetle, and it comprises three expert police officers. The team’s work would be supervised by an additional commissioner and deputy commissioner of police rank officers. The team is inquiring into four complaints against Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugsoncruise-case-mumbai-police-summons-ncb-informer-101635442489964.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Sri Lankan delegation brings sacred stone from Ashok Vatika to Ayodhya||A Sri Lankan delegation led by their high commissioner to India Milinda Moragoda visited the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on Thursday and offered a shila (sacred stone) from the island nation’s Ashok Vatika for the Ram temple. The high commissioner also paid obeisance to Ram Lalla (idol of the infant Ram). The high commissioner’s wife Jennifer Moragoda, deputy high commissioner Niluka Kadurugamuwa, minister H G U Pushpkumara and minister counsellor G K G Sarath Godakanda were among the others who visited the Ram Janmabhoomi as part of the Sri Lankan delegation. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, received them at the Ram Janmabhoomi. Trust members Dr Anil Mishra and Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra were also present. According to the Hindu epic Ramayan, Sita, Lord Ram’s wife, was held captive by demon king Ravan, at Ashok Vatika. In a tweet earlier this year, the Indian high commissioner to Sri Lanka had made the announcement about dedicating a stone from Sita Eliya (Ashok Vatika) for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. “A stone from Sita Eliya in Sri Lanka for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be a pillar of strength for India-Sri Lanka ties. This stone was received at the Mayurapathi Amman Temple by HC-designate of Sri Lanka to India HE Mr. Milinda Moragoda in presence of the High Commissioner,” the tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sri-lankan-delegation-brings-sacred-stone-from-ashok-vatika-to-ayodhya-101635442488541.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra dip to 18,748||Maharashtra’s count of active Covid-19 cases on Thursday dropped to 18,748, down from the 19,480 on Wednesday and 22,981 on Tuesday.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the reduction in active infections showed that the Covid-19 pandemic is under control. “The government had been focussing on critical patients, ramping up the number of tests, isolating the patients as well as providing timely medication,” said Dr Awate.Mumbai has the most active cases at 4,944, followed by Pune and Thane with 3,929 and 3,005 patients respectively. The fourth and fifth positions are occupied by Ahmednagar (2,048) and Raigad (659) respectively.The number of active cases during the peak of the second wave earlier this year had reached 600,000. For months till Tuesday, Pune was leading in the number of active cases, followed by Thane. The third position had been alternatively held by Mumbai, followed by Ahmednagar and Satara in recent months. However, on Wednesday, Mumbai overtook Pune in terms of active cases.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said there is nothing to panic if Mumbai has the highest number of active cases. “Since we have less than 500 new patients daily in Mumbai, we are doing well in containing the virus. We should ideally rejoice with masks,” said Dr Gilada. “However, we need to be cautious and adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he added.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 1,418 Covid-19 new cases and 36 deaths.Mumbai recorded 324 new cases and six deaths, with its toll reaching 16,235. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,607,954.There were 114,099 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries clocked 2,112. The death toll has now reached 140,134 with Pune leading with 19,585 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,235 and Thane with 11,443.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-dip-to-18748-101635442131931.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||SC decision on NEET fair to lakhs but we have been cheated: 2 petitioners||Weeks of waiting finally concluded on Thursday as the Supreme Court (SC) stayed an order by the Bombay high court (HC), thus making way for the announcement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) results.Undergraduate medical and dental aspirants have been on the edge waiting for the National Testing Agency (NTA) to announce results for NEET-UG, the exam for which was conducted on September 12. A petition by two aspirants from Solapur demanding a retest for thems, however, was delaying this step.“Over 16 lakh students appeared for the NEET exam and more delays in the process of announcing results directly affects the academic year of first-year students. The previous batch already faced a lot of trouble and we are hoping we don’t face a similar fate,” said Anirudh Pai, a NEET-UG aspirant. He added that while he feels bad for the two students who were wronged “by the system”, delaying results of everyone else would be a huge punishment for all.The Bombay high court (HC) last week directed the NTA — the nodal exam conducting agency — to conduct NEET examination afresh for two candidates who approached the judiciary. These students in their plea mentioned how on the day of the examination, on September 12, both students were handed a question paper and answer booklet with mismatched code numbers. This automatically meant their answer sheets were not accepted by the automated system and therefore left them with no answer booklets to base their score on.“I have attempted the exam with all my knowledge, but due to the error on part of the invigilator, my answers do not match the question paper so I have been marked zero in the exam. None of this is our fault but the judiciary has punished us in this bargain,” said Abhishek Kapase, 19, one of the two students from Solapur who approached the Bombay high court (HC) earlier this month.Both Abhishek and Vaishnavi Bhopale, 19, were appearing for NEET from the same centre in Solapur this year and both were facing similar trouble — the code on their question paper and answer booklet did not match. What’s worse is that both students brought this to the notice of the invigilator, but received no help.“Just like every other medical aspirant, we have spent the last two years preparing for NEET and appeared for the exam with all our knowledge possible. Because of this decision now, we will end up wasting an entire academic year and will have to appear for NEET again’ next year. How is this fair to us?” asked Bhopale.While most parents are happy with the decision of the apex court staying the Bombay HC order and making way for NEET-UG results, some feel the two students should have been given a chance to prove their case.“While the SC has given importance to the larger interest of students, considering the lives of 16 lakh students, their decision has been unfair to these students. Their precious year goes waste, and so does their hard work of the last two years,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of a medical student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-decision-on-neet-fair-to-lakhs-but-we-have-been-cheated-2-petitioners-101635441833227.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Diwali fair aimed at bringing biz to small traders, says UP CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday inaugurated the grand Vikas Deepotsav Mela (Diwali fair) at the Jhulelal Park here, calling it an attempt to bring smiles to the faces of people from the lower strata of society who suffered the most during the pandemic crisis. Highlighting the UP government as a pro-commoner government, the CM also felicitated street vendors, cleanliness staff and Covid warriors on the occasion. “Due to Covid crisis, our people, especially those into small businesses, were grappling to meet out their financial needs for the last one and a half years. The aim of organising the Diwali fest is to bring business to these people. More than 1,500 street vendors and other small traders/artisans have been roped in for the fest in order to bring smiles on their faces this Diwali. A similar fest is being organised at around 217 places in UP, including 200 nagar palikas,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath while inaugurating the event based on the theme ‘Vikas Deepotsav’. The CM accused all previous governments of being insensitive towards people from the lower strata of the society. “No previous government has felicitated street vendors and traders on such a grand platform because they were insensitive towards them. In our regime, around 8 lakh street vendors have been felicitated with ₹10,000 loan under the PM Swanidhi Yojna, around 45 lakh families have been provided accommodations, 2.61 crore people given toilets, 1.41 crore people got free electricity connections while 1.51 lakh families were given free gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme,” he said. “During the regime of previous governments, people feared while celebrating their festivals, feared taking the name of Lord Ram or Krishna. The difference is much visible now. There have been no riots in the last four and a half years of our regime and people are free to celebrate in their own way. On November 3, we would be lighting around 9 lakh earthen lamps in Ayodhya,” said Yogi Adityanath. He also urged people not to pollute river Gomti. The chief minister said while other countries were still grappling with Covid and lockdowns, the situation was under control in UP. The CM’s address was followed by a grand laser show and Gomti Arti. “It’s a historic moment for us. We haven’t witnessed any such event along river Gomti in the past. The laser show was mesmerising and the illumination at Chhattar Manzil too was beautiful,” said Saheba Hussain, a college-goer, who visited the fest. The venue had around 1,500 stalls and a food court where people were seen enjoying Awadhi cuisines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/diwali-fair-aimed-at-bringing-biz-to-small-traders-says-up-cm-101635441467679.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||38 years on, CBI court in Mumbai acquits Chhota Rajan in the first case against him||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday acquitted gangster Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje aka Chhota Rajan, 38 years after he was booked for the first time for attempting to murder a police officer in 1983. This was the first major case registered against Rajan. Police said before this Rajan, used to black market tickets outside a cinema theatre in Chembur area. Special CBI judge A T Wankhede acquitted him. Counsel Tushar Khandhare who represented Rajan said the case dates back to 1983. He said the incident took place after a police team attached to Tilak Nagar police station apprehended Rajan while smuggling liquor in a taxi. The team comprised six policemen – two officers and four constables. Rajan was accompanied by two others. After the police stopped the taxi, Rajan flashed a knife and attacked one of the police officials and injured him. The Tilak Nagar police had arrested Rajan and one of his aides who was later acquitted by the court, whereas the other accused was absconding. When Rajan was arrested in Indonesia in October, 2015, and brought to India, Mumbai Police had handed this case to CBI. CBI had filed a closure report in the case saying that it could not find witnesses and even the weapon as the case was old. The Special court had rejected the plea for closing the case and had asked the agency to continue the trial. Special Public Prosecutor, Pradip Gharat had argued before the court that the three police constables who had deposed against Rajan had narrated the incident well and defence could not prove otherwise. However, Khandhare who argued for Rajan told the court, “Despite the incident taking place in the day in a crowded place near Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, the police failed to examine any independent witness. The weapon cannot be foisted upon me as there are no panch witness at the spot. Rajan is not directly involved in the case.” After hearing both the sides, the court acquitted Rajan per section 235 (1) of Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/38-years-on-cbi-court-in-mumbai-acquits-chhota-rajan-in-the-first-case-against-him-101635441407968.html
28-10-2021||Other||BMC waiving off only part of property tax for flats less than 500 sq feet: BJP||A day after the Maharashtra government decided to not increase the property tax, ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has hit out at the Shiv Sena over its announcement of waiving off the property tax on small flats. BJP’s Ashish Shelar has said that Shiv Sena had announced to waive off property tax on the flats which are less than 500 square feet (sq ft), but in reality, only a part of the tax was waived off. “Only general tax of the property tax was waived off by the Shiv Sena-led civic body after making the announcement in the last civic polls. Other taxes recovered as part of the property tax continue to be levied on these flats. The announcement is nothing but cheating the people of the city,” he said. Shelar said Mumbai has 1,536,380 flats of up to 500 sq ft, paying collective taxes of ₹670 crore. “The burden is bearable for BMC if it gives total waiver to the flat owners. BMC gives 50% waiver in premium to builders but is not ready to extend the waiver in property tax to Mumbaiites. The state government’s decision taken on Wednesday to not revise the property tax is just hogwash,” he said. On Wednesday, the state cabinet decided to not increase the property taxes for buildings and lands in Mumbai for the financial year 2021-22. The decision was taken in the wake of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and is said to cost the exchequer a burden of ₹1,042 crore in the financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bmc-waiving-off-only-part-of-property-tax-for-flats-less-than-500-sq-feet-bjp-101635440807862.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Travel in Mumbai: Public transport share slipped by 13% points in 12 years||Over 400km of metro rail corridors, 1,200km of an additional road network, 530km of dedicated bus lanes, multiple inter-state and intercity bus terminals, passenger water terminals, cycle tracks are some of the infrastructure projects that are envisaged in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the next two decades. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Thursday released the Comprehensive Transportation Study (CTS) outlining some new projects and implementation of proposed projects in MMR. It also said that the share of public transport has dropped considerably between 2005 and 2017. MMRDA officials described the decline in the use of public transport in MMR as a “danger signal” and “serious issue” which needed to be addressed immediately. SVR Srinivas, Metropolitan Commissioner, MMRDA, said the share of suburban trains, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking buses has gone down in the 12 years.“In the past 10 years or so, a serious trend has been observed. The share of public transport in MMR has dropped from 78% to 65%. The share of railway and BEST buses also has reduced. This means that private vehicles have tremendously increased. This is a danger signal according to me,” Srinivas said during the unveiling of the CTS.According to the report, the trips of two-wheelers and cars have increased nearly twofold during the period. In 2005, MMR had 0.63 million trips in cars and 1.05 million two-wheeler trips. This increased to 2.34 million two-wheeler trips and 1.59 million car trips in 2017. Interestingly, though the trips of suburban trains increased from 6.98 million to 8.11 in the 12 years, the percentage of people reduced from 51.8% to 43.2%.Srinivas added, “In a city like Mumbai which grows vertically, the share of public transport should increase and this is dangerous. We are at a point of inflexion and need to take immediate steps. Unless we have more people using public transport, we cannot cope with the demand.” He added that with the implementation of the CTS they intend to increase the share of public transport to 75.4%.The first Comprehensive Transport Study was released in 2008 based on which several projects were implemented in Mumbai and MMR, including the 6.45-km Santacruz-Chembur Link Road, Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP), which included suburban railway projects, 11.4km Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar metro line, and 16.8-km Eastern Freeway project.The CTS 2021-2041 largely consists of projects proposed or planned earlier. The new study, meanwhile, is divided into the short term plan (till 2026) medium-term (till 2031) and long term (till 2041). The study recommended a 487-km metro network, 232-km suburban rail network, 533-km dedicated bus lanes/BRTS, and an additional road network of 1,264-km by the horizon year 2041.Tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the guardian minister of the Mumbai suburban district, said developed nations largely depend on public transportation. For Mumbai, the dependency would come when there are additional BEST buses, more metro lines. “Today we have 3500 buses, we will be able to fully utilise the public transport potential when we have 10,000 buses,” he said.State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said that like suburban railways, Metros will have to be the lifeline of MMR which will help reduce the private vehicles on the roads. He also said that the projects need to be completed in a time-bound manner to see their full impact. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “Planning is a continuous process. The transport system is the bloodstream of our city and our needs are increasing and planning is a must to follow these needs. Today, the percentage of people travelling through public transport has reduced as seen by the numbers. But it will increase only when we give a clean and neat public transport system to people. However, we should not kill the environment while going for development.”Some of the projects proposed in the CTS include a four-lane tunnel under the Sanjay Gandhi National Park between Borivali and Thane, as 20.75km of Metro line between Taloja and Kalyan, Nariman Point-Cuffe Parade missing link, Thane coastal road, Metro line between Siddhivinayak (Prabhadevi) and the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport. The estimated cost for all projects to be completed is over ₹4 lakh crore. The MMRDA expects that nearly ₹48,761 crore will come from private participation, ₹93,933 crore would come from the Centre through either share or subsidy, and ₹803 crore from development charge.The study further recommended four interstate Bus Terminals, 13 inter-city bus terminals, five inter-city rail terminals, five major and 14 minor truck terminals and 25 passenger water terminals by the year 2041. As a part of an immediate requirement, the study has also recommended various traffic management measures such as junction improvements, flyovers, elevated roads, road-over bridges, subways, and cycle tracks.The study recommended the construction of 322km of metro lines or 14 metro corridors, 172km of additional suburban railway, 319km dedicated bus lanes or Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), 824km of additional road network in the MMR by 2026. The estimated cost of these projects is ₹3.13 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/travel-in-mumbai-public-transport-share-slipped-by-13-points-in-12-years-101635439367796.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh has seen eight-fold increase in solar power generation capacity since 2017: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh has brought its solar power generation capacity up to nearly 2000 megawatt (MW) from 250 MW in 2017, an almost eight-fold increase. He also stated that Uttar Pradesh now has the best water resources in the world.“By March 2022, we are going to add another 1000 megawatt production (of solar power),” he said at the opening ceremony of the two-day “UP climate change conclave-2021.”“We believe the earth is our mother. Hence, in every ritual, we pledge to save the earth, life on earth, and even the universe,” Yogi Adityanath said at the meet in Lucknow.The climate change conclave has been organised to discuss measures for reducing carbon footprints. Experts from the field related to environment sciences are participating in the meet.“Earlier, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) used to point out shortcomings, but our government took it seriously. Illegal slaughterhouses were stopped and after initial hurdles, people themselves came forward to stop them,” Yogi Adityanath said.“In the past five years, we have planted 100 crore trees and now our capacity is such that we can plant 100 crore trees in one year. In all 16 lakh street lights have been replaced with LED ones,” the chief minister said, sharing his government’s efforts to reduce carbon emission.He said community/public toilets are going to be constructed at each village in addition to the toilets built in individual houses in villages. A large pit for compost making has been made mandatory in every village.“When our government took over, 256 development blocks were put in the dark zone but now UP has the world’s best water resources. Dolphins are visible in the Ganga in Varanasi and Kanpur, where they had not been seen for years together,” the CM said.He said biofuel needs greater focus, pointing out that the season for stubble burning is nearing.“Despite an increase in the number of tigers in the state, man-animal conflicts have gone down. This became possible after awareness, sensitisation and (imparting) training to people living in forests and rehabilitating them,” the chief minister said.Three eco-tourism circuits were launched during the programme: the Agra-Chambal, Varanasi-Chandrakanta and Gorakhpur-Sonibarwa circuits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-has-seen-eight-fold-increase-in-solar-power-generation-capacity-since-2017-yogi-adityanath-101635439247584.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Narendra Giri death: CBI collects details of old cases related to seer||A team of Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) investigating the death of ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri is now scanning all records of old disputes of the late seer and their present status, said officials of the central probe agency.In this connection, a CBI team had on Monday met lawyer Rishi Shankar Dwivedi, who along with his father Pandit Mahadev Dwivedi, handled the cases related to Mahant Narendra Giri. Officials privy to the developments said there were over three dozen cases lodged against Mahant Narendra Giri all of which were now disposed off and the decision was in his favour in nearly all of them. Before his death, only one case was pending in the court. “Dwivedi had told CBI that in 2012, Narendra Giri had removed a seer Shivanand from his post following which the later moved the court. The case was still pending in the court,” the official said.The CBI officials then collected details about other cases and scanned the documents related to them. “The team also collected documents which here written by Narendra Giri himself. The CBI also took samples of signatures made by Narendra Giri which will be matched by his signature in the purported suicide note,” the official said. It is worth mentioning that CBI is still to receive the forensic report of the suicide note found at the spot where Mahant’s body was found.The CBI team, the official said, has also questioned persons close to Narendra Giri along with persons known to prime accused Anand Giri. So far, three persons Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep have been arrested after the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan inside his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/narendra-giri-death-cbi-collects-details-of-old-cases-related-to-seer-101635438707696.html
28-10-2021||Gurugram||Three MCG enforcement officials under lens due to inaction over 55 illegal constructions||Three officials of the enforcement wing of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) are facing an inquiry over their failure to seal or demolish at least 55 illegal structures in parts of Old Gurugram, despite being alerted about the same by residents as well as senior MCG officials.According to MCG officials, a subdivisional officer (SDO) and two junior engineers (JEs) issued notices to the owners of illegal structures in Palam Vihar, Old DLF Colony, New Railway Road, Rajendra Park and New Colony about a year after they were alerted but during a delay in issuing notices, construction of most of the structures was fully completed.“The MCG received many complaints from residents against illegal construction in parts of old Gurugram, and the same was conveyed to the three officials. Upon inspecting, it was discovered that no action had been taken against at least 55 structures. Further, an inquiry revealed that by the time they issued notices to building owners, the buildings had either been constructed or were nearing completion, indicating possible collusion. The matter is being investigated,” Sanjiv Singla, joint commissioner, MCG, said.Singla said that show-cause notices have been issued to the officials concerned to explain their version of events.“A few MCG officials and I will be conducting a survey in these areas to ascertain the exact cause behind inaction and verify if there are more such illegal structures where action was evaded,” Singla said.Singla said that the three officials have to submit their answers by the end of this week and if their version of the matter is found to be dissatisfactory, further action would be taken against them as per the law, including the possibility of a vigilance wing probe.A senior official said that they have also received verbal complaints from residents against the three officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-mcg-enforcement-officials-under-lens-due-to-inaction-over-55-illegal-constructions-101635438229401.html
28-10-2021||Gurugram||Vacant flats, shops in Rakshak Plaza sealed, DTCP deems constructions ‘illegal’||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Thursday sealed 22 vacant flats and four shops in Rakshak Plaza on Old Railway Road, as the residential complex was constructed without requisite permissions, officials said.DTCP officials said that they could not find any licence or permissions for the project, where 52 flats and five shops were developed and sold. However, flats that were occupied were not sealed, officials said.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the sealing drive started around 11.30am and continued till evening. “The flats in the complex were constructed without permissions. A complaint on this matter was received by the department after which a detailed investigation was carried out and it was found that these flats were constructed illegally. Notices were issued to the property owners, landowners and other stakeholders seeking explanation how these flats were constructed, but the replies were unsatisfactory,” he said.DTCP officials likened the Rakshak Plaza issue to illegal residential complexes in Sai Lane and Sector 66, for which restoration notices were issued in the past few months.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that an enforcement team carried out the sealing drive with the support of a police contingent. “We have made it clear to the property developers and dealers that no sale or purchase of these flats would be allowed as these are illegal. We also request homebuyers to refrain from buying properties in illegal complexes,” he said.In another matter, a delegation of residents from Malibu Towne called upon Bhath on Thursday morning, requesting that the residents’ versions be heard over the demolition of a few facilities and structures in the township. “We have requested the department that gates, generator and other facilities in the colony have been set up to ensure the safety of residents and such these should not be removed. If there is a need, we can get these regularised,” Vijay Shivnath, an RWA member, said.However, Bhath said that action was taken in the colony after complaints were lodged by the residents themselves. “A memorandum has been submitted by the residents and we will look into the details and necessary action will be taken as per the law. We will ensure that residents don’t face any problem but violations would not be allowed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vacant-flats-shops-in-rakshak-plaza-sealed-dtcp-deems-constructions-illegal-101635438227621.html
28-10-2021||Gurugram||Waste collection mafia: One booked for extorting money from Palam Vihar residents||The police on Wednesday booked a private waste collection vendor for allegedly extorting money from residents of Palam Vihar for door-to-door garbage collection. According to the police, they are trying to identify 20 such operators, who threaten residents to pay them instead of opting for the authorised waste collection agencies appointed by civic bodies.The Municipal Corporation of Gururgam (MCG) also filed a complaint in this regard, following which the suspect, identified as Naveen Kumar, a resident of Carterpuri village in Sector 23A, a repeat offender, was booked.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Kumar was earlier arrested for brutally assaulting a resident after he was stopped from collecting garbage. “He was already lodged in Bhondsi jail and will be taken on production remand. His associates are working on his directions and are threatening residents to pay money to get garbage collected,” he said.A case was registered under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station on Wednesday.Sangwan said Kumar was not allowing garbage collection vehicles of the MCG to enter the area and that his gang threatened to kill the drivers. “These private vendors have spread their network in the area and are charging residents between ₹100 and ₹500 to get their garbage collected. Those who refuse to pay are assaulted and their lives threatened. We will start taking strict action against anyone indulging in these activities,” he said.According to the police, the gangs hire vehicles to collect garbage and pay the drivers 20% of the total collection.Hari Om Attri, the joint commissioner of MCG (HQ), said that they have also written to their authorised vendors to collect garbage door to door and to complain against anyone hindering their work. “We will reach out to the police if we receive any complaints as this nexus is growing in many areas and it is becoming difficult for the authorised vendors to operate in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/waste-collection-mafia-one-booked-for-extorting-money-from-palam-vihar-residents-101635438167474.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||DGCA allows 22K flight departures for winter schedule||As Covid-19 cases continue to remain low, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), in the winter schedule effective from October 31, 2021, till March 26, 2022, has finalised 22,287 departures from 108 airports. This is 4.4% less departures as compared to the winter schedule of the pre-pandemic year 2019-20, which had seen 23,307 departures.The development comes after the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on October 12 allowed the scheduled domestic operations to operate without any capacity restrictions of passengers. All stakeholders had welcomed the government’s move and had termed it to be ‘crucial’ step ahead of the festive season.Of the 108 airports, Sindhudurg and Kushinagar are the new airports proposed by the scheduled airlines.IndiGo – India’s largest airline by market share – will operate 10,243 departures, the highest by any airline, in the winter schedule. The airline is followed by SpiceJet that will operate 2,995 departures, GoAir with 2,290 departures, Air India with 2,053 departures, Vistara with 1,675 departures and Air Asia with 1,393 departures. Small and regional connectivity airlines, too, have been finalised for operations.Alliance Air is scheduled to have 911 departures in the winter schedule, followed by Trujet (450), Star Air (137), Fly Big (116) and Pawan Hans (24).While Vistara saw the biggest increase, of 22%, among big carriers, the biggest decline in flights was seen for SpiceJet (31%) for the winter schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dgca-allows-22k-flight-departures-for-winter-schedule-101635437808883.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Why no action was taken against organisers of cruise rave party: Nawab Malik||Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) leader and minister Nawab Malik on Thursday asked why there was no action taken against Fashion TV’s senior executive Kashiff Khan, who had organised the cruise rave party. Malik said that he has been let off probably because he is a friend of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede. He has also questioned why the cruise ship was released despite having organised the party without any permission.Khan is the managing director of Fashion TV India, according to his LinkedIn profile. Hindustan Times was unable to reach Khan for comment.“NCB claimed that a rave party was about to happen at Cordelia cruise. It was organised by Fashion TV and its India head Kashiff Khan without any permission, then why the cruise was allowed to sail (even after the raid). What is the relation between the organiser and Sameer Wankhede and why no action was taken against him? I am expecting answers from (Sameer) Wankhede,” Malik told reporters and questioned Wankhede’s integrity.Malik has also questioned the background of the organiser. “Why over 1,300 people present at the cruise were not scanned if there was a rave party and only 13 were targeted? We believe the entire case is related to the organiser, who is also Wankhede’s friend,” Malik said.On Wednesday, Malik alleged that Wankhede let an international drug lord, present in the rave party off the hook and instead framed “certain individuals”.Malik has levelled a series of allegations against Wankhede since Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested by an NCB team that claimed to have busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship, which was on its way to Goa on October 3, off the Mumbai coast. A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far, in the case. On Thursday, he again reiterated that it is was a false case, after the Bombay high court granted bail to Aryan and two others.“Aryan Khan and two others have been granted bail in the cruise raid case by the Bombay high court. Only yesterday, the other two accused got bail. In such a case, the bail should have been granted by the Esplanade court, but advocates representing the NCB made all the efforts to ensure the jail term of the accused got extended by making new arguments every day. They want to scare them. At last, they got bail. I am repeating this again, it is a false case. They were deliberately framed by (Sameer) Wankhede. The case can be quashed if the accused approaches the high court with evidence,” Malik told reporters.“The officer (Sameer Wankhede) who arrested them has approached the high court with a plea that the Mumbai Police should not be allowed to investigate the complaints against him. Police said if we have to arrest him then a prior notice of 72 hours will be issued in advance. Till yesterday, he was requesting the Mumbai Police not to arrest him and today he approached the high court. He had requested security from the Mumbai Police and now what has changed within a week that he lost his faith in Mumbai Police. It is a fact that he has done forgery, and thus is scared of the police,” he added.On Wednesday, Malik said he had proof that an international drug lord was present at the Cordelia cruise rave party along with his girlfriend, but the NCB team, led by Wankhede, chose to let him off, as the drug lord was his “friend”. Malik claimed he has the pictures and video footage to corroborate this and could share them with the NCB if the agency approached him.The high profile matter took a further twist when Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the case, alleged on Sunday that Wankhede and some other NCB officers had sought ₹25 crore from actor Shah Rukh Khan as extortion money to release Aryan. Following Sail’s allegation, a vigilance probe was ordered into Wankhede’s conduct and Mumbai Police too started a probe in this matter.Malik has maintained that the rave party was organised without any permission including from the Mumbai Police or the state home department. The only permission they had was from the director-general (DG), shipping.Meanwhile, the OBC cell of BJP has announced to stage agitation at the party’s Nariman Point office on Friday under the leadership of OBC morcha chief Narendra Gaokar. Party’s vice-president Chitra Wagh too has condemned Malik for revealing personal information of the first wife of Wankhede. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray takes action for the remarks on Twitter, but in this case, where a woman is being publicly insulted, he has maintained silence. This has been time and again witnessed in the country, that whenever Congress comes to the power Dalits and backward classes are targeted,” she said. On Thursday, the state NCP chief Jayant Patil stood by Malik and said that the charges against Kiran Gosavi, who is also one of the witnesses in Aryan Khan case, and allegations of extortion by Sail are serious in nature. He also said that NCB is harassing and defaming people and Malik is trying to prove misuse of the central agencies in Maharashtra.“(Kiran) Gosavi has been arrested for cheating. He was also part of the raid and is also accused of extortion to the tune of ₹18 crore to ₹25 crore in the Aryan Khan case. The accusation was made by one of his colleagues. Both the offences are serious in nature. In the entire matter, political misuse of NCB is also coming to the fore as similar things have happened with Malik’s relative (son-in-law Sameer Khan who was arrested by NCB for alleged possession of drugs). Today whatever Nawab Malik is saying is with evidence and it shows the entire NCB action is to defame and harass people by putting them behind the bars. Today it is about Shah Rukh Khan’s son and it may have happened with others as well, thus it requires a detailed probe,” Patil told reporters.He said that the investigation will help in bringing out the fact that Wankhede used a fake caste certificate to get a government job as an IRS (Indian Revenue Service) officer.“The point Nawab Malik is trying to make here is that the central agencies such as the income tax (I-T), Enforcement Directorate (ED) or NCB are being misused for harassing and defaming people and this need to be seen objectively and the evidence appeared so far need to be probed,” he pointed out.He also said that they are expecting the NCB vigilance team that arrived in Mumbai to investigate the charges against Wankhede will work to bring out the facts and not to conceal them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-no-action-was-taken-against-organisers-of-cruise-rave-party-nawab-malik-asks-101635437567826.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body aims to reduce greenhouse gases emission by 22% by 2025-26||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) aims at reducing greenhouse gases emission by 22% within the city in the next four years.A plan has been put in place by the Pollution Control Department to reduce approximately 5,11,608 tonnes of carbon emission. This includes certain plans already in place to make use of solar power and new plans like planting mangroves along the creeks.The civic body calls this as the climate resilient city action plan and has also joined hands with Cabinet Minister Aaditya Thackeray’s United Nations Race to Zero Campaign.“From usage of solar power wherever possible to switching government vehicles to CNG instead of diesel and from energy efficient fixtures to rain water harvesting, there are many such initiatives already in place. We plan to include more such facilities like encouraging solar farming and flood management solutions. We also plan to plant more mangroves along the creek as Thane has a huge creek area. This will not only help control carbon emission but also floods,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.At present, the city witnesses 1.02 metric ton equivalent carbon dioxide emissions per person.“Based on the current carbon emission and the number of tons each initiative will help reduce, we have an approximate figure planned. Around 5.11 lakh ton of carbon emission can be reduced by the year 2025-26 if we look at 2017-18 as the base year of these initiatives. We have accordingly prepared a plan that will be executed in various departments including solid waste management, transport, residential, industrial and government buildings, streetlights, water supply, disaster management and biodiversity,” said an officer from the Pollution Control Department.As per TMC, 2,65,604 tons reduction in solid waste management, 2,45,562 tons residential and industrial buildings, transport department can reduce around 15,677.28 tons, streetlights will reduce 6,443 tons, government building reduces 947 tons, water supply can reduce 9,611 tons, disaster management and health department will reduce 49.44 tons of carbon emission.Under Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray’s leadership, 43 AMRUT cities from Maharashtra have joined the UN Race to Zero. Maharashtra has the highest number of cities from any state in India joining the Race to Zero.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-aims-to-reduce-greenhouse-gases-emission-by-22-by-202526-101635437507899.html
28-10-2021||Other||Bihar bypolls: DSP removed from poll duty after Tejashwi’s red flag||PATNA Just ahead of the October 30 assembly bypoll in Kusheshwar Asthan of Bihar’s Darbhanga district, a deputy superintendent of police was removed on the orders of the Election Commission of India (ECI) following leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s accusations that he was acting in a partisan manner and has been posted at Biraul subdivision as a part of conspiracy to influence polls.Earlier in the day, Yadav said at a press conference that the police officer, Dilip Kumar Jha, had been posted on deputation at Biraul subdivision and given election duty just to influence polls. He said the officer was removed from Darbhanga earlier after complaints against him and was transferred to Bagaha. “But the DSP was purposely brought back to Darbhanga on deputation as part of conspiracy to influence polls. We had complained to the EC about his deputation on October 23, but the state administration made him in-charge of 25 booths only recently, ignoring the poll panel. What is surprising there is no notification of his deputation from Bagaha in all websites concerned we searched. This means his posting was done in a hush-hush manner,” Yadav said. The opposition leader also demanded that the EC deploy adequate central paramilitary force at all booths in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, where bypolls are to be held on October 30. Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the ruling Janata Dal (United) are locked in a tight fight in the two seats. Meanwhile, on Thursday evening, RJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha met the Chief Election Commissioner in New Delhi while party delegation met Bihar’s Chief Electoral officer H R Srinivasa in Patna to highlight the posting of alleged tainted officers and demand their removal from election duty. When contacted, Srinivasa confirmed that an RJD delegation had met him but declined to elaborate. RJD’s state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary, who was part of the state delegation, said the CEO assured them of adequate deployment of paramilitary force both in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bypolls-dsp-removed-from-poll-duty-after-tejashwi-s-red-flag-101635437212281.html
28-10-2021||Other||After hunger strike, prisoners in Bihar allowed to meet kin, get outside food||PATNA After a long wait of 18 months, family members can now meet prisoners in various jails across in Bihar.The state’s prison department has decided to resume physical “family-inmate” meetings in jails after hundreds of inmates of Beur central jail went on a hunger strike from Thursday morning. However, they would be required to take all precautionary measures against the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to the suspension of such physical meetings on March 22, 2020.According to sources, more than 2,000 prisoners had written a letter to inspector general (prisons) Mithilesh Mishra before Durga Puja, requesting for resumption of physical mulaqats (meetings) in jail and had threatened to go on hunger strike from October 28 if their demands were not met.On Thursday, hundreds of prisoners, including 50 Maoists, went on hunger strike to press their demand of resumption of physical meetings with their family members and permission for outside food, as was the norm before outbreak of Covid. The agitated prisoners alleged they could not even talk privately with their spouses during e-mulaquat system. Following their hunger strike, the Beur administration allowed outside edible items and the IG assured them to fulfil the demand at the earliest. During the pandemic, family members were allowed to speak to inmates through video calls via a system called e-Mulaquat, introduced last year by the Bihar government. Prisoners are allowed “e-mulaqat” with family members thrice a month for 15 minutes each.However, several inmates complained of long waiting hours and denial of permission to their family members despite having registered themselves with valid IDs. A jail official, on the condition of anonymity, said prisoners often suffered mentally and psychologically because of long incarceration pending trial. “These problems aggravated during the pandemic. These physical meetings, where they can see their family members and advocates will help them feel better,” he said.The total capacity of prisons in Bihar is 46,669, while the number of inmates had gone past 72,823 till August 30, as per official data. In Patna’s Beur Model Prison, the number of inmates has reached 5,110 against its capacity of 2,360.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hunger-strike-prisoners-in-bihar-allowed-to-meet-kin-get-outside-food-101635437210725.html
28-10-2021||Other||Farmer shot dead in Siwan village, assailant lynched||PATNA A farmer was shot dead and one of his assailants chased and lynched by an angry mob in a village in Bihar’s Siwan district on Thursday morning, the police said.The farmer, identified as Satyadeo Gond, was shot dead near the house of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA Harishankar Yadav at Mirpur village under Andar police station limits following which locals managed to nab one of the fleeing assailants, identified as Om Prakash Gond, and lynched him. Police said Satyadeo was walking towards his cowshed when three unidentified men arrived there and fire indiscriminately. He had tried to flee from the spot but was hit with two bullets and succumbed on way to hospital. Siwan’s superintendent of police Kumar Abhinav, who later visited the spot, said 12 live cartridges were recovered from the possession of Prakash, who is said to be distant relative of Satyadeo. Police said Prakash was released from the jail three months ago and was involved in two murder cases as well as liquor smuggling cases. Asked about the motive behind the killing, SP Abhinav it will be clear only after a probe. He said raids were under way to nab two more assailants. In another incident, a medical shop owner, identified as Prabhu Rai, was stabbed to death in Kachnar village under Rivilganj police station of Saran district late on Wednesday night. Saran SP Santosh Kumar said the incident took place around 9.30 pm when Prabhu was at his shop. Some miscreants entered into an argument with him after which one of them attacked Rai with a sharp-edged weapon. He succumbed to his injury during treatment at Sadar hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-shot-dead-in-siwan-village-assailant-lynched-101635437208932.html
28-10-2021||Other||Girl’s gruesome killing: Two arrests and 20 days on, Kaimur cops nab ‘real culprit’||BHABUA Nearly 20 days after the arrest of two labourers in connection with the gruesome killing of a 10-year-old girl, the Kaimur police on Thursday claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of a third man, who they claimed is the real culprit.The half-burnt body of the girl, a class five student, was recovered from the campus of a government residential high school for scheduled tribes at Devari village under Adhaura police station limits of the district on October 7. The place on Kaimur hills is around 80 km south of district headquarters town of Bhabua.According to police, the girl was brutally killed with an iron rod and stones and her body was burnt after she opposed rape attempt. Kaimur superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar said a youth, identified as Masidur Alam of Malda in West Bengal, was arrested on Wednesday and incriminating evidence was recovered on his identification.Asked about the fate of two already jailed accused who had been found innocent in the police investigation, the SP said the police would send a report to the court so that they get relief. After the girl’s body was found, a case of murder was registered against Abdul Kurban alias Saifuddin and Mohammed Ghulam Murshid, both residents of Malda in West Bengal, on the statement of the girl’s father, a tea seller. They were arrested and sent to jail on October 9.The two, along with 17 other masons and labourers from West Bengal, were working in construction of a new building for the school.Later, a special investigation team (SIT) formed under subdivisional police officer Sunita Kumari obtained footage from a CCTV camera in the school that showed a man going with the girl on the first floor of the under-construction building. Police said the two jailed accused were taken on police remand and the crime scene was recreated with all the 19 masons and labourers. Finally, the accused, identified as Masidur Alam, was arrested on Wednesday.According to police, Masidur confessed to luring the poor girl on assurance of giving her useless iron rods and tin and tried to rape her. When she raised an alarm, the man killed the girl with an iron rod and a stone. He also set her body on fire to destroy the evidence.The girl’s gruesome killing had led to an outcry and several opposition leaders, including RJD’s state spokesperson Ritu Jaiswal, had visited the place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/girls-gruesome-killing-two-arrests-and-20-days-on-kaimur-cops-nab-real-culprit-101635437207457.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Power official caught taking bribe in UP’s Meerut||A team of vigilance officials from Meerut arrested superintending engineer of Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL) red handed while he was allegedly accepting ₹2 lakh as bribe from the contractor of a Chandigarh-based company involved in the construction of rapid rail project between Meerut and Delhi. He was then taken to Civil Lines police station for further interrogation.Confirming it, Arvind Mallappa Bangari, managing director (MD), PVVNL, said over the phone, “I am on a visit to Amroha and came to know about the incident through WhatsApp. I have directed to suspend the errant official Devendra Pachauria and a departmental enquiry would also be initiated against him.”Asserting that he had directed for zero tolerance against corruption in the department, the PVVNL MD said a separate vigilance enquiry would also be conducted against Pachauria. A team of vigilance laid a trap against PVVNL official on the complaint of the contractor when the latter approached it alleging that superintending engineer Devendra Pachauria was demanding ₹2 lakh for shifting of some electricity lines.The team powdered the currency and gave it to the contractor who met Pachauria in his office and gave the money. While the official was taking the bribe, the vigilance team entered the office and caught him red handed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/power-official-caught-taking-bribe-in-up-s-meerut-101635436607377.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC urges Mumbai citizens to get registered for voting in a special drive from Nov 1 to 30||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday urged citizens to get themselves registered for voters’ card in a special drive being conducted by the election commission between November 1 and 30.According to BMC officials, along with registration, correction of names and addresses will also be possible during the drive. Citizens who turn 18 on January 1, 2022 will also be eligible to cast their vote. The upcoming polls for 227 seats of the BMC are expected to be held in February 2022.In the city, during the 2017 BMC elections, there were around 9.2 million voters, which went up to around 9.6 million in 2019 during Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The number is now expected to have crossed the 10 million mark.Further, the websites – www.nvsp.in and www.ceo.maharashtra.nic.in – will be available for online registration of voters while the toll-free number 1950 is available for voter registration inquiry. The final voters’ list will be published on January 5, 2022 after completing all formalities related to the correction, claims and objections related to the voter list. The same list will be valid for the coming elections of the BMC.Meanwhile, the BMC has already kicked off preparations for the upcoming civic polls. The BMC has started the process of verification for delimitation of boundaries of the 24 administrative wards. Post this, the BMC will submit the list to the state election commission for suggestions and objections. The BMC is also expected to increase the number of booths this year in view of Covid-19 to ensure social distancing while conducting voting.Meanwhile, BJP MLA Ameet Satam on Thursday wrote to UPS Madan, State Election Commissioner alleging wrongdoing in data submitted by the BMC in delimitation process that involves changing boundaries of the 24 administrative wards in the city. Satam in his letter said, “We have been informed there is huge difference in the rough draft submitted by the BMC election as well as assessment department to Municipal Commissioner’s office on October 24 and the one submitted by the BMC to state election commission on October 26.” Satam further alleged, “There has been political interference and a proposal suiting the needs of the ruling party in the BMC as well as the state was prepared outside, sent to Municipal Commissioner’s office and submitted to state election commission. The proposal has shifting of census enumeration block no’s from one ward to another specifically in western suburbs only to suit the need of a particular party and has been monitored and prepared by a cabinet minister.” However, no comment was available on the above allegations from the BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-urges-mumbai-citizens-to-get-registered-for-voting-in-a-special-drive-from-nov-1-to-30-101635436247536.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Byculla zoo to open its gates from November 1||Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo in Byculla, popularly known as Byculla zoo, will open to visitors on November 1, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a statement. However, the BMC has appealed to senior citizens and children below 5 years of age to avoid visiting the zoo in view of Covid-19. According to the BMC, citizens can visit it between 9.30am and 6pm, however the issuing of tickets for entry will be stopped by 4pm, unlike the earlier 5.15pm. In a statement the BMC said, “Senior citizens and children below the age of five should avoid visiting gardens and zoo. Masking while in the public area will be mandatory for visitors and they also will not be allowed to store their belongings as the facility for storage in the zoo for the public is temporarily closed. Visitors are also appealed to not throw away their single-use masks and gloves if required in the premises but only in the designated disposal bins placed.” The BMC has further said that gates and ticket counters will be shut immediately, in case of crowding at any given time owing to following social distancing norms due to Covid-19. Further, the zoo opening up its gates once again would also mean that the public can expect to get the first glimpse of the two new additions to the colony of Humboldt penguins. Of the two penguin chicks born this year, one has been identified as a male who is named Oreo, the gender of the other chick is still to be determined. The zoo authorities are in touch with a Hyderabad based-diagnostic centre for it. The Byculla zoo was opened on February 15 this year, after the first Covid wave, but was shut in no time owing to concerns related to the second Covid wave. Besides penguins, citizens will also be able to catch a glimpse of the Royal Bengal tigers named Shakti and Karishma, which were brought from Siddharth Garden and Zoo in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad city in February 2020, just before the country went under a nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-byculla-zoo-to-open-it-gates-from-november-1-101635435768688.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane Sessions Court issues non-bailable warrant against Parambir||The Thane Sessions Court has issued a non-bailable warrant against Director General Parambir Singh, who currently stands accused of multiple criminal charges including extortion, wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation.Additional Commissioner of Police (West region), Anil Kumbhare, confirmed that the warrant had been issued on Wednesday in connection with a complaint filed against the top cop in the Thane Nagar police station in July this year.Singh, who has previously served as the Commissioner of Police, Thane, was booked along with 27 others including DCP Deepak Devraj, ACP NT Kadam, retired cop Pradeep Sharma, senior police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire and gangster Ravi Pujari based on a complaint filed by businessman Ketan Tanna, 54.According to Tanna, the accused cops, from January 2018 to February 2019, extorted ₹1.25Cr from him and ₹3.45Cr from his friend and business associate, Sonu Jalan. The Thane Anti Extortion Cell had arrested Jalan in 2018 in connection with an alleged betting racket.“Since Singh’s whereabouts are unknown and we are receiving multiple reports about him being in various locations in India and abroad, we had sought the warrant so that if and when he is arrested, bringing him back to Thane for inquiries would be easier. A non-bailable warrant provides enough basis for a local magistrate to grant transit remand to the investigating agency,” an officer with the Thane Nagar police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-sessions-court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-parambir-101635435767476.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs-on-cruise case: NCB records statement of Fletcher Patel||The vigilance team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday recorded the statement of Fletcher Patel, a Dadar resident who has served in 17 years in the Indian Army. Patel was a panch in a few cases registered by the NCB previously.The senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik had tweeted a few days ago, attaching the front page of three separate panchnamas signed by Patel as a panch witness. Malik had alleged that Patel was also a friend of NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede. “Vigilance team of NCB had summoned me and accordingly, I appeared before the team in Bandra,” said Patel. “They only asked me regarding a case number 94/21 — the cruise drug bust case in which Aryan Khan has been arrested. But I am not a witness in that particular case,” he added. He added that the NCB vigilance team asked him a few more questions, as to how I came in contact with Wankhede and that he replied that a few years ago we met at a function through a common friend. Being an ex-serviceman, whenever asked, I extend help to various government agencies, he added. The NCB vigilance team on Thursday also interviewed and recorded the statement of advocate RB Gupta, the notary before whom Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the cruise ship drug bust case, has affirmed his revealing affidavit. The vigilance team visited Gupta’s office at Wadala in the afternoon and brought him to CISF Mess at Bandra to record his statement, said an NCB officer. NCB has initiated the vigilance enquiry after Sail, who claims to be the personal guard of Kiran Gosavi - a key witness in the cruise drug bust case revealed in a notarised affidavit that he overheard Gosavi talking to another person about ₹18-crore deal, of which ₹8 crore was alleged to be paid to Wankhede. Sail also alleged that as per the direction of Gosavi, he collected two bags containing ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the cruise ship and handed the bags over to Gosavi at his residence in Vashi. Subsequently, he handed over an amount of ₹38 lakh to another person. Sail was present at Green Gate when the NCB team led by Wankhede searched guests set to board a holiday cruise set to sail for Goa. He claimed that all the panchnamas were recorded at the NCB office, where the agency’s officers took his signatures on several blank papers. On Wednesday, one more panch witness in another NCB case has revealed that the agency officials had forced him to sign some blank papers, some of which were used to prepare panchnama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugsoncruise-case-ncb-records-statement-of-fletcher-patel-101635435227583.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Cow dung diya stalls a major attraction at Diwali Mela venue||lkoreportersdesk@htlive.comLUCKNOW Colourful idols of Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Ganesha, earthen lamps and other products, all prepared from cow dung, remained the centre of attraction at the stalls set up at the Jhulelal Park, where the nine-day-long Vikas Deepotsav Mela (Diwali fair) got underway on Thursday. Visitors from far flung areas dropped in to become a part of the one-of-its-kind event. “People’s response to the event is overwhelming. We never thought that the products would be in such great demand. We our thankful to the UP government and especially those people who accepted our concept that aimed at generating employment and utilising cow dung creatively. This will help check people from abandoning their cows,” said Lakshman Patra, sangathan mantri, Sahkar Bharti (a cooperative) that set up one of the stalls at the venue. Among other products, Lakshmi-Ganesh idols were in demand. “Due to the upcoming festival of light, idols of Lakshmi-Ganesh are in demand,” said Anuradha Srivastana, motivator\trainer of a self help group, associated with Sahkar Bharti. She said the work of preparing artefacts from cow dung started a couple of years back. “We started the work in order to generate employment and also check the abandoning of cattle. When people will get money for the dung, they won’t abandon animals that have completed their lactating cycle,” she added.So far, around 1,700 self help groups (SHGs) associated with Sahkar Bharti are making several products. “Initially, the cost of 1 kg cow dung was ₹5. Now, when the demand increased, the cost is up to ₹40. Through innovation, women associated with the SHGs are generating ₹150 to ₹250 a day,” she added. “Before coming across these products, we never thought that something can be prepared from cow dung,” said Sudha Sharma, a housewife who thronged the stall along with her family members. Several similar stalls remained crowded on the day. The Diwali fest is an initiative of the district administration and LMC. Gomti Arti and a grand laser show highlighting the UP government’s achievements were part of the Mela. The Nawabi era Chhattar Manzil was used as a canvas for the laser show. “It’s a good initiative. After the pandemic situation, this was a much needed relief that will help people unwind themselves,” said Praveen Mishra, a private employee, who visited the fest. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cow-dung-diya-stalls-a-major-attraction-at-diwali-mela-venue-101635434687450.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Nerul residents on plantation drive to protect Lotus Lake||In their bid to save the Lotus Lake from falling prey to encroachment, Nerul residents of Sector 27 conducted a plantation drive around it after Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) cleared encroachments so that the hutments don’t come back.A WhatsApp group ‘Save Lotus Lake’ brought together many like-minded people of Sector 27, Nerul. For a few months now, the group had been working towards beautifying the Lotus Lake in Nerul. Advocate Pardeep Patole, one of the active members of the group, had filed a PIL and had got a favourable order that directed the local body to clear the debris and encroachment. Last week, NMMC cleared the encroachment after which the volunteers in the group decided to plant trees at the place. Around 35 native plants were planted in the area around the lake by the volunteers of the group.“Apart from making sure that the encroachers don’t return, the plants will add to the beauty of the lake. We would continue to take up the issue with the NMMC till the illegal chestnut farming in the lake is stopped. The lake that once bloomed with lotuses has none blooming due to the chestnuts,” Patole said.He added that the staff from the garden department of NMMC supported the drive by digging pits for them to plant.Dharmesh Barai from NGO, Environment Life group, said, “Instead of artificial beautification of the lake, it should be natural. We would soon get the water tested to find if there are any chemicals in it. The plantation will act as a boundary wall and will protect the lake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nerul-residents-on-plantation-drive-to-protect-lotus-lake-101635434212298.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Vegetable prices drop by 5% at APMC market in Navi Mumbai||In what may come as a relief to the citizens, the traders in APMC market have claimed that with the winter around the corner, the vegetable prices have fallen by around 5% compared to the entire month of October.The price of greens, especially, has skyrocketed in the last few weeks, traders claim, though the impact of the reduction is yet to be felt in retail markets. Post Diwali, the vegetable prices will drop, they claimed.“The unseasonal rains in October had impacted the supply and now the stock is reaching normalcy and slowly picking the older rates,” Ramdas Pavle, a trader from APMC vegetable market said.Around 15 days back, the vegetable prices had increased by around 40%. They have now come down by 5%. “Green leafy vegetables were the ones that were hit the most by the rates. But now, the rates are going down and by post Diwali, it will go down even more,” Shankar Pinglay, director of APMC vegetable market, said.The rates of coriander leaves in wholesale were around ₹50 to ₹60 in the beginning of the month and they were being sold at ₹100 by retailers. The rates of coriander leaves have now come down to ₹35 to ₹45 while some of the retailers continue to charge ₹100 for the same. A few have come down to ₹60.“Due to the increase in price, very few are purchasing coriander leaves and hence we too get very less for the sale. Prices of other greens like methi, palak and vegetables like lady’s finger, capsicum, green peas, onion too have increased,” Ali Kazi, a vegetable retailer from Nerul said.Meanwhile, the residents who have been burning a hole in their pocket by purchasing the vegetables claim that even if the wholesale market rates go down, the retailers continue to charge higher prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vegetable-prices-drop-by-5-at-apmc-market-in-navi-mumbai-101635432951888.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 306 more Covid cases, 6 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 306 new Covid positive cases and six deaths in the last 24 hours. All deaths were reported from Pune rural. and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 520,606 Covid cases and 9,199 deaths till Thursday. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 268,535 cases and 3,503 deaths due to Covid, as per the state health department. Pune rural has reported 365,107 total cases so far and 6,883 virus deaths. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,154,248 Covid cases. Of this, 1,130,385 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,934 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 3,929 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 2,112 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,445,454 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.54%. Across Maharashtra, 1,418 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 36 virus deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 62,316,910 laboratory samples, 6,607,954 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 10.6% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 171,200 people are in home quarantine and 896 are in institutional quarantine. Tracking the virus Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,154,248 Recovered patients: 1,130,385 Deaths: 19,934 Active cases: 3,929 New cases: 306 New deaths: 6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-306-more-covid-cases-6-deaths-101635432887077.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Cycle track at Powai Lake: Experts, activists not convinced with officials’ assurance||The past two months have seen a flurry of activities surrounding the construction of a cycle track at Powai Lake by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Citizens have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, asking that the plan be nixed, while political parties have opposed the project. A public interest litigation (PIL) has also been filed in Bombay high court (HC) by two researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), while a Mumbai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) has petitioned the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the project. There have been multiple protests by citizens at the site, and the forest department has responded to the controversy by saying, for the first time, that the lake is a wetland and must be protected as such.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, along with officials and experts involved, are urging environmentalists to reconsider their stance, pointing out that the project’s broader vision also includes restoration of the water body – a long-standing public demand – and the first ever baseline study of Indian marsh crocodiles, which inhabit the lake. Thackeray has also publicly said that not a single tree – of the about 71 that lie in the path of the cycle track – will be cut. Adverse impacts to biodiversity have been a foremost concern of environmentalists.Speaking to HT, additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velarasu described the cycle track proposal as a place-making exercise, which will lead to the creation of valuable public space in the city’s eastern suburbs. “If you look at south Mumbai, there is Marine Drive and Worli Seaface. In western suburbs, there is Juhu and Bandra. But the eastern and central suburbs – where real estate development is concentrated and population is booming – do not have an equivalent space. That’s what we are trying to create, as an alternative to malls and other forms of indoor recreation,” he said.Officials also cited the example of other Indian cities with prominent urban lakes, such as Hyderabad, Bhopal and Bangalore, which have been developed into free, accessible public spaces. “Every lake in every city around the world has been protected by making use of it as an urban, open space that is natural. It is a model of sustainable development,” said Thackeray, in response to a question by HT.Emphasising that the ecological integrity of Powai Lake is paramount, Thackeray added, “I’m an environmentalist too, and that’s what the Powai Lake rejuvenation project is about. Currently, the lake is dead ecologically. It has sewage ingress from properties surrounding it, and certain illegal constructions have been brought to our notice. The cycle track will be an important intervention. Contrary to what is being alleged, it will protect the lake from encroachments and incentivise proper environmental management. To refuse to see the project in this light, and then to spread lies, is a disgraceful act in the name of environmentalism.”Of about 38 inlets currently letting raw sewage into the lake, six have already been closed by BMC. The cycle track, which consists of a gabion structure made of rocks, will also be lined with over 2,000 indigenous trees. Instead of gabion structures, BMC had considered using other materials such as timber, steel and concrete, but decided against them owing to the disturbance they might cause to the environment. As per an estimate provided by BMC to the heritage conservation committee, the project will stand to benefit around 10 million citizens. BMC has also deployed six devices to monitor the lake’s oxygen levels, in addition to one aeration barge. Another seven aeration fountains are proposed to be installed.A senior expert involved with the project, seeking anonymity of name, highlighted that Mumbai currently has only 0.9 square metres (sq m) of developed open space per person, far lower than the 10-12 sq m recommended in the Centre’s Urban and Regional Development Plans Formulation and Implementation Guidelines. “The existing land use study for Mumbai, undertaken pursuant to the 2034 development plan, shows that we can increase this to about 1.1 sq m per person if certain open spaces are developed to allow public access. Powai Lake is one such space,” the expert said. For comparison, the United Kingdom has about 20 sq m of developed open space per person, while in the United States of America, it is 24 sq m. “In a city where we are so strapped for room, the Powai Lake project will serve a greater public good,” the expert added. Environmentalists and even urban planners, however, remain staunch in their scepticism of the project, which can be traced back to 2016 proposal by BMC, titled ‘Green Wheels Along Blue Lines’. This proposal involved building a 39-km long, fenced jogging and cycling track to replace informal housing settlements along the Tansa pipeline, which were demolished in 2016 as per an HC order. In fact, the Powai Lake cycle track will be connected with an older track that exists parallel to the Tansa pipeline, as per drawings accessed by HT.Hussain Indorewala, architect and researcher with the Collective for Spatial Alternatives, highlighted that the project does not promote sustainable transport. “It will encourage only cycling for leisure. It’s not the same as building cycle tracks on arterial city roads, which would be a more effective way of reducing vehicular pollution. So perhaps the purpose is recreation and beautification, not sustainable mobility. But even for such projects, there has to be a careful study and mapping of existing land uses, socio-ecological impacts and cost-benefit analysis. Have the project proponents studied whether the cycle track will disrupt existing land use, such as fishing or collecting fodder? These assessments should be done beforehand, not only because it’s required by law, but as a matter of good practice,” he said.Others pointed out that despite BMC’s “noble” intentions, important details regarding the project have been shrouded in mystery. Official plans and budgets have not been placed in the public domain, and BMC has not solicited any public feedback or hearings, as it would mandatorily have to for any other project covered under the Centre’s environment impact assessment (EIA) notification. “Our fear is that the cycle track will reduce the contours of Powai Lake and open up lands around the lake for development. If the project is truly in public interest, then why should BMC be reluctant to take citizens into confidence? It is being built using taxpayers’ money after all,” said Amrita Bhattacharjee, environmentalist who has worked with the Save Aarey movement and has been campaigning against the cycle track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cycle-track-at-powai-lake-experts-activists-not-convinced-with-officials-assurance-101635432047072.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar residents fear no steps taken to resolve slab collapse incidents||Despite 13 people losing their lives in the last six months to various slab collapse incidents in Ulhasnagar, residents continue to live in fear as no major steps are being taken to resolve the issue.On Wednesday midnight at around 12.15 am, a portion of the slab above entry gate of the Sherawali Kunj Building near Yatriniwas Garden in Ulhasnagar Camp 2 collapsed. Following this, 10 families vacated the building.Though the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) has started to identify, audit and vacate such structures in the city, the work undertaken is at a very slow pace and hence not effective in controlling such collapses, complained the residents.A slab collapse in the five-storey Paras Building located at Gandhi Nagar in Ulhasnagar Camp 5 killed a 25-year-old resident, Akash Poptani.Earlier in May, in two separate slab collapse incidents, a total of 12 residents were killed. Followed by the two incidents in May, around 1,500 buildings in Ulhasnagar built during 1994-98 using low quality sand were served notices to carry out the structural audit.The civic body has also formed a panel of structural engineers to carry out the structural audit of unsafe buildings. UMC announced to bear the cost of the audit for 116 of the 179 listed buildings that fall in the C1, C2A, C2B and C3 as per the inspection carried out by the panel.Apart from these, thousands of buildings are still to get the audit done.Kajal Mulchandani, a 35-year-old resident and social activist from Ulhasnagar, said, “The civic body has initiated some action in the city after the two incidents in May. However, there are no major changes in the situation. UMC, though, had served notices to 1,500 buildings to carry out structural audits; there is no clarity on how many have actually done it. There should be a constant effort from the civic body to get it done.”UMC civic chief, Raja Dayanidhi, claimed that the civic body is prioritising those buildings that are extremely dangerous or in the dangerous category and need to be repaired or vacated immediately.“The other buildings that were sent notices are also given regular reminders to get the audit done. The residents are, however, reluctant to do the audit claiming they cannot spend on the audit. There are a lot of such hurdles from the residents’ side due to which the audit of all these 1,500 buildings is stuck,” he added.Social activist, Sashikant Dayma, claimed that the problem is with the material used for construction of the building and not how old the buildings are, and the UMC is losing this focus. “Paras Building, whose slab collapsed, was not in the list of 1,500 buildings. So, what is the point of this list?”MP Shrikant Shinde claimed that a dedicated cluster policy for the city is in the pipeline. “Once the policy is sanctioned, the residents can go for regularisation and redevelopment of their respective buildings. Ulhasnagar city has no empty space compared to other cities like Thane. In Ulhasnagar, because of the space constraints, we’ll have to impose a separate policy. The government will finalise a policy by November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-residents-fear-no-steps-taken-to-resolve-slab-collapse-incidents-101635431992584.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||2022 UP polls: Priyanka to address rally in Gorakhpur on Oct 31||After launching her party’s election campaign early this month in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of PM Narendra Modi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is set to address a public rally at Gorakhpur on October 31.As Gorakhpur, the seat of Gorakhnath Math, is considered chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s area of dominance, the rally is going to draw a major attention. Her rally will also be the Congress’ second major political event in Purvanchal region after the Varanasi rally held on October 10.“Yes, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address a rally in Gorakhpur on October 31. Senior Congress leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, are camping for the rally in Gorakhpur,” said a senior Congress leader aware of the efforts being made for mobilisation of people for the Gorakhpur rally.“Yes, Congress will challenge chief minister Yogi Adityanath is his bastion. There is a great enthusiasm among the people about the rally. The Congress worked for the sugarcane growers in Purvanchal region by setting up sugar mills. It also set up canals to take water of the Gandak for irrigation and also worked for poverty alleviation in the region. The non-Congress governments have, however, pushed the area on path of backwardness and we will bring development in the region,” said UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu.Priyanka, who addressed “Kisan Nyay” rally in Varanasi and launched her party’s three “Pratigya Yatras” in Barabanki this month, is expected to focus her campaign on the BJP government’s failures in her party’s bid to reach out to the people of Purvanchal region and present the Congress as an alternative in 2022 UP assembly elections.The Congress also proposes to launch its fourth “Pratigya Yatra” from Gorakhpur after Diwali to take promises Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has made and will make to the people ahead of the 2022 UP polls.Besides promising 40 percent Congress tickets to women, the party has also announced smartphones to 12th class pass girls, electric scooties to graduate girls, 50 percent cut on power bills, waiver of power dues of Covid-19 period, a financial assistance of ₹25,000 for the poor families hit by Covid-19 and up to ₹10 lakh free treatment in government hospitals for patients suffering from any ailment.A promise of ₹2500 per quintal minimum support price for wheat and paddy and ₹400 per quintal state advised price for sugarcane has also been made to the farmers in addition to the promise of farm loan waver. “We feel there is a lot of excitement about the Gorakhpur rally. It’s going to be a big success and issues like rising unemployment and inflation and those concerning farmers etc are going to come into focus at the rally,” said senior Congress leader and former union minister RPN Singh.“This is election time and what the Congress is doing now should have been done much earlier. The Congress needs to change its electoral strategies and must explore options for an alliance with like-minded parties to make a mark in 2022 assembly elections,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former professor, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2022-up-polls-priyanka-to-address-rally-in-gorakhpur-on-oct-31-101635431026895.html
28-10-2021||Patna||Bihar DSP removed from election duty in Kusheshwar Asthan after RJD redflag||PATNA: Days ahead of Saturday’s bypoll, a deputy superintendent of police, or DSP-rank officer Dilip Kumar Jha, was removed from election duty in Kusheshwar Asthan on orders of the Election Commission, people familiar with the matter said. The decision to remove the officer came after the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal led a sharp campaign, accusing the official of acting in a partisan manner and claiming that he was recently posted at Biraul sub-division as a part of an effort to influence polls.Dilip Kumar Jha has been replaced by another officer on the orders of the senior superintendent of police following EC’s intervention in the matter, a person aware of the development said on condition of anonymity. Jha could not be contacted for his comments.RJD leader and leader of opposition in the assembly Tejashwi Yadav fronted his party’s opposition to the officer, pointing that he was transferred from Darbhanga a few months back after complaints against the officer and sent to Bagaha in Pashchim Champaran 200km away.“But the DSP was brought back to Darbhanga on deputation as part of a conspiracy to influence polls. We complained to EC about his deputation on October 23 but the state administration still made him in charge of 25 booths only recently. What is surprising is there is no notification of his deputation from Bagaha though we have searched in all websites concerned. This means that the posting of the officer was done in a hush-hush manner,” Tejaswi Yadav said.Yadav, who also sought deployment of additional central forces, said the RJD was being careful about such matters for the bypolls.“We have been victims of deceit and manipulation in assembly polls last year. We are alert this time and want the election to be fair,” the 31-year-old, widely seen as RJD founder Lalu Yadav’s political heir, said.The Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (U) and RJD are locked in an intense fight in bypolls on the two seats, Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, necessitated due to the death of the MLAs.In the national Capital, an RJD delegation led by Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha also approached the Election Commission while a third team met Bihar’s chief electoral officer HR Srinivasa in Patna to seek removal of partisan officers from poll duty.Asked about the RJD complaints, chief electoral officer HR Srinivasa said an RJD delegation met him pertaining to the posting of some officers on election duty and other demands. He, however, declined to comment further.RJD’s state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary, who was part of the delegation that met Srinivasa, said the state’s top election official assured them of adequate deployment of central forces at polling booths in two constituencies. “ We have been also assured that matter regarding the deputation of DSP Dilip Kumar Jha would be looked into,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-dsp-removed-from-election-duty-in-kusheshwar-asthan-after-rjd-redflag-101635430247326.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP has forgotten promise to distribute laptops: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of forgetting its poll promise to provide laptops to meritorious students in Uttar Pradesh even though the Yogi Adityanath government had completed four-and-a-half years in power.Akhilesh Yadav was speaking at a programme organised to honour meritorious students at Durga Inter College in his parliamentary constituency Azamgarh in eastern Uttar Pradesh.After addressing the gathering, Akhilesh distributed laptops to the meritorious students who excelled in class 10 and 12.“The students sitting in front of me are meritorious. When their results were declared, I thought the BJP government will honour them because the BJP had promised to give tablets and laptops to meritorious students who opt for further studies. It had also said data will be provided free and some institutes will be connected to free wi-fi facility,” Akhilesh Yadav said. “The BJP has completed four-and-a-half years in power. Now, UP’s 24 crore people want to know when the BJP government will give laptops to meritorious students,” he said. “Today, I read in newspapers that they are going to give some tablets. I want to know which tablet they have been giving to the children for the last four-and-a-half years?” the SP chief said.He also said that the new generation needed gadgets for acquiring knowledge and the SP government gave them laptops during its tenure.“When the laptops distributed during the SP’s tenure are turned on even today, the pictures of netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) and me appear on the screen. No one else appears there.” The SP chief said that now that he (Akhilesh) is distributing free laptops, the chief minister is quite worried about who is coming to power in UP 2022. If the CM turns on the Samajwadi laptops, he will get to know who is coming to power in the state, the SP chief said. “But our chief minister will not operate the laptop, because he doesn’t know how to do so,” he claimed.He alleged that quality of the construction of expressways in Uttar Pradesh had deteriorated. Hitting out at the government for inflation and rising fuel prices, he said, “This government is indicating to everyone the need to ride bicycles.” Alleging that a minister’s son mowed down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month (October 3), Akhilesh said in future, they may crush the Constitution.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is one of the accused who have been arrested in the case.He accused the present government of ruining the 102 and 108 ambulance services.Reacting to Akhilesh Yadav’s allegations, BJP Kashi region spokesperson Navratan Rathi said, “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav should know that the BJP is working continuously to fulfil its poll promises. Most of the promises, which were made in the poll manifesto, have already been completed in the last four-and-a-half years. As far as distributing laptops and tablets concerned, tablets and smartphones will be given to the students soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-has-forgotten-promise-to-distribute-laptops-akhilesh-yadav-101635429946936.html
28-10-2021||Other||Mandi bypoll | Voters to deck up in traditional attire at Tashigang, world’s highest polling station||Ahead of the Mandi bypoll, voters in Tashigang village have dusted off their traditional attires to celebrate the ‘festival of democracy’ at the world’s highest polling station. Mandi, which is the second largest Lok Sabha constituency in the country after Barmer in Rajasthan, also boasts of the world’s highest polling station, which stands at an altitude of 15,256 feet above sea level. A polling station had been set up in the tiny hamlet for the first time during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sub-divisional magistrate Mahender Pratap Singh said, “We are proud to have the highest polling station in the world. We have decided to decorate the polling station, which has been set up in a government building, to welcome voters.” Villagers are also excited to cast their vote and have decided to dress in their traditional attires to celebrate the festival of democracy, the SDM said. The village, which is close to the Chinese border, has 47 voters, of which 29 are men and 18 are women. Agriculture is the mainstay of the villagers. Booths at great heightsIn the Jubbal-Kotkahi assembly, Adail village, which is situated 8,500 feet above sea level, is the highest polling booth in the assembly, while Pambad (6,204 above sea level) is the highest polling booth under the Arki assembly segment and Agahar (2,100 ft) holds the distinction in the Fatehpur assembly. The hill state has numerous remote areas and Shaakti in GHNP under the Banjar assembly in Kullu district (Mandi Lok Sabha constituency) is the most far-flung polling station and the polling party will have to trek 24 kilometres on foot to reach the booth. In the Fatehpur segment, Sath-Kuthera in Kangra required the polling parties to trek 6km while in the Jubbal-Kotkhai segment, Dhansar was the most far-flung booth, requiring a 2-km trek. Tough topographyHimachal Pradesh chief electoral officer C Paulrasu said, “Special arrangements have been made to transport EVM machines to the polling stations located at high altitudes. As many as 40 electronic voting machines and Voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines have been sent to Kaza of Lahaul-Spiti district under the Mandi parliamentary constituency through helicopters amid tight security.These EVMs and VVPAT machines will be used in 29 polling stations set up in Kaza. “The Mandi parliamentary constituency has a tough topography as it constitutes remote tribal areas and moreover there is chance of fresh snowfall in the higher reaches. We have asked the administration to deploy adequate men and machinery to ensure smooth polling in these areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mandi-bypoll-voters-to-deck-up-in-traditional-attire-at-tashigang-world-s-highest-polling-station-101635428747127.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Pune court sends NCB’s key witness Gosavi to police custody till Nov 5||A Pune court on Thursday remanded the Narcotics Control Bureau’s key witness in the cruise ship drug bust case Kiran Gosavi in police custody till November 5 with connection to a cheating case from 2018.The Pune police earlier arrested Gosavi, whose picture with Aryan Khan went viral following the latter’s arrest from a cruise rave party early this month. Gosavi, according to Pune police, was arrested in the case lodged four years ago. He was on the run and introduced himself as Sachin Patil during his stay in Lucknow, Jabalpur, Hyderabad and Fatehpur, police said.“Gosavi was projecting himself as a member of Stop Crime NGO and CIBCA detective agency. He also claimed to run an export-import business. We were searching for him based on his social media photos,” Amitabh Gupta, Pune Police commissioner told HT.He said that the Pune Police earlier arrested Gosavi’s assistant, Sherbano Kureshi, in the cheating case. The case pertains to allegations of Gosavi cheating Chinmay Deshmukh of ₹3.09 lakh under the pretext of getting him a job in Malaysia. The police said that the recipient of the money was Sherbano Kureshi. On 2019, the Pune Police filed the chargesheet in the case.The Pune Police denied any relation between the arrest and the ongoing controversy regarding Gosavi’s presence in the cruise ship during the raids carried out by NCB following which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested for alleged possession of drugs. All three were granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday and are expected to walk out of jail on Saturday.Earlier, a lookout notice was also issued to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country. The other witness in the raid, BJP worker Manish Bhanushali, has also been summoned by Mumbai Police for questioning in an unrelated matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-court-sends-ncb-s-key-witness-gosavi-to-police-custody-till-nov-5-101635426295352.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Accused quizzed about others involved in killing of BJP workers, journalist and driver||LUCKNOW Gurwinder Singh, key accused in the case related to the killing of two BJP workers and two others during violence in Lakhimpur Kheri after four farmers were allegedly mowed down by an SUV, was on Thursday questioned by investigators about the other attackers involved in the killing, said police.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) had arrested two demonstrators –Gurwinder Singh, 32, and Vichitra Singh, 24 – from Gola and Bheera towns in Lakhimpur Kheri, on Tuesday for their alleged involvement in the violence. Singh was in three-day police custody from Thursday morning to Sunday morning.Two separate FIRs—the first for mowing down of four farmers and the second regarding the killing of four others — were registered at the Tikunia police station after the October 3 incident. In the first case, 13 people including the minister’s son had been arrested so far.A police official said SIT members questioned Singh for over six hours. The investigators remained mainly focused on extracting details of other people involved in the attack on BJP workers and setting ablaze the two vehicles present in the convoy of union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra.The SIT was also likely to take Gurwinder to the site of incident on Friday to recreate the sequence of events to connect the missing links between the mowing down of four farmers and the ensuing violence, said the official. On October 3, violence had erupted after Ashish Mishra’s car allegedly mowed down four farmers near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. Four others, including two BJP workers, Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder, journalist Raman Kashyap and Hari Om Mishra, the driver of Ashish Mishra’s car were also killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-accused-quizzed-about-others-involved-in-killing-of-bjp-workers-journalist-and-driver-101635426226643.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Patient finds maggots in lunch served at Kalwa hospital||After a patient found maggots in her lunch on Thursday at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa, the hospital management has registered a police complaint against the canteen contractor and also served a notice seeking explanation.“Such an incident has not occurred before. By the time the patient complained of maggots in her lunch, most people had already consumed their food including the said patient. We immediately filed a complaint with the local police station and wrote to the canteen contractor seeking explanation for the incident. We checked the kitchens and it was maintained well,” said Bhimrao Jadhav, Dean, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa.The patient who found maggot in her lunch is a tuberculosis patient. She did not face any kind of health complications post lunch and so did none of the other patients, said the medical staff at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patient-finds-maggots-in-lunch-served-at-kalwa-hospital-101635426046889.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road mishap: Speeding car mows down teenaged cousins||A speeding car mowed down two people near Gopalpur village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla Road on Wednesday. The victims are Manjit Kumar, 15, and his cousin, Mithun Kumar, 14, of Kila Raipur. The boys were standing on the divider waiting for a chance to cross the road when the vehicle ran them over and immediately hit a car coming from the opposite direction. The occupants of the oncoming car escaped unhurt. After the incident, the driver, Lakhwinder Singh of Patiala, fled the spot, leaving his vehicle on the road. The complainant, Manoj Paswan, said that his son, Manjit, and nephew, Mithun, collected plastic bottles, polythene, cardboard and other trash from roadsides and sold it to scrap dealers. Mithun died on the spot, while passersby rushed Manjit to the hospital where succumbed to his injuries.Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-mishap-speeding-car-mows-down-teenaged-cousins-101635425446509.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: UPSESSB declares PGT-2021 results for 10 subjects||The Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Services Selection Board (UPSESSB), Prayagraj announced the results of the postgraduate teacher (PGT) recruitment-2021 for 10 subjects late Wednesday night. A total of 684 candidates have been declared successful by the board for appointment in government-aided secondary schools of the state. Deputy secretary of UPSESSB Naval Kishore informed that the final results of PGT recruitment-2021 have been made available on the official website of UPSESSB— https://upsessb.pariksha.nic.in/. He said that the successful candidates have been given the opportunity till October 29 to online fill their options for school allotments. “The link for this has also been made available on the official website of UPSESSB,” he added. UPSESSB had conducted PGT recruitment exam-2021 for 23 subjects on August 17 and August 18. Interviews of successful candidates of the written exam were conducted between October 5 and October 26 for these 10 subjects including, Biology (114 posts), Mathematics (99 posts), English (297 posts), Psychology (47 posts), Arts (76 posts), Logic (7 posts), Military Science (10 posts), Home Science (13 posts), Music Vocal (9 posts) and Musical Instruments (12 posts). There were a total of 684 postings on offer in these subjects. Now results of subjects including Civics, Chemistry, Physics, Sociology, History, Hindi, Agriculture, Education, Geography, Economics, Sanskrit, Physical Education and Commerce are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-upsessb-declares-pgt-2021-results-for-10-subjects-101635425086523.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai house help, family arrested for extorting Rs4L from Ulwe employer in fake rape case||The NRI Coastal police have arrested a 19-year-old house help and her family along with a social worker for extorting ₹4 lakh from her employer in Ulwe after filing an alleged fake rape case.Dipesh Tripathi, a resident of Ulwe Sector 20, has been arrested by the NRI police for the alleged rape. On October 18, Prajakta Tripathi (38), a resident of Ulwe, had hired a 19-year-old as house help and on the same day asked her to accompany her husband to the market.Later in the day, the help approached NRI Coastal police and registered a case of rape against Tripathi claiming that he had given her spiked drink and raped her in his car for an hour, following which he was arrested.“From the CCTV footage, we found that she was with him in the car for 22 minutes and visited four shops as well. When Tripathi’s wife was approached by a social worker claiming to ‘settle’ the case, our suspicion was confirmed,” senior police inspector Ravindra Patil from NRI Coastal police station said.The social worker told Prajakta that the house help’s family was in touch with her and was ready to take back the case if they paid ₹10 lakh, which was negotiated to ₹4 lakh.On Tuesday, the case of extortion was registered against the house help, her mother, brother, a relative and the social worker after the police verified all the call recordings given by Prajakta. All the five accused were nabbed red-handed while accepting the money.“Tripathi is still in our custody and we would soon file a ‘B’ Summary report in court for the case being a false one,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-house-help-family-arrested-for-extorting-rs4l-from-ulwe-employer-in-fake-rape-case-101635424546844.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane court issues non-bailable warrant against ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||A court in Thane on Thursday issued a non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in an extortion case registered earlier this year.The development came hours after the crime branch of the Mumbai Police moved an application in the Sessions Court to issue a non-bailable warrant against its previous top boss in the case. The court will hear case on Friday.Maharashtra: A court in Thane has issued non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the extortion case pic.twitter.com/kKnbkieS44The crime branch claimed that the IPS officer was untraceable. On Monday, the Maharashtra government informed that it had started a process to declare Singh as absconding. A case of extortion was registered on July 23 against Singh, Sachin Waze, who was dismissed from the forces, and others at the Goregaon Police Station in the city, following which the investigation was handed over to the crime branch.Singh had earlier alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended Waze- and other officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from restaurants and bars in the country's financial capital.Also read | Mumbai ex-top cop Param Bir Singh may have fled India using forged passport: Probe agenciesHe had made the allegations in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray days after he was shunted out from the top job, following which Deshmukh, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party, put in his papers as the minister, although he denied the accusations. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh.Recently, Thackeray said there was a case in the state where the complainant had gone missing."…Today we have a case where the complainant is missing. He gave a complaint making serious allegations, but is now missing. We do not know where he is. This is something that also needs to be looked into," he said. Although the chief minister did not name anyone, his remarks were apparently targeted at the senior IPS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-court-issues-nbw-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101635423726896.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body starts door-to-door survey to take stock of people vaccinated||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has started a door-to-door survey to understand how many in the city have been vaccinated.Although the TMC has inoculated more than 16 lakh beneficiaries with at least one dose of the vaccine, there are many who have not received even a single dose. Within the first few days of the survey, it has come to light that 33.03% of the vaccine-eligible population within the city has not received even the first dose of vaccine.“We started this survey from Monday in different parts of the city. Irrespective of the social or economic situation, we noticed that there are a few who aren’t keen on taking the vaccine. In areas where we noted more such people, we set up a small centre within the society premises. However, the reluctance to vaccinate persisted among the residents. This week, with the help of religious leaders of different faiths, we have set up a mass vaccination drive in Mumbra. Gradually, we shall focus on other wards in the city as well,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.A team of four in every ward is visiting homes within slums as well as high rises in order to get a figure as to how many have been fully vaccinated or not vaccinated at all.“In every ward, we have set up a team that visits each society or cluster of buildings to collect vaccination data. Based on the demographic and the reason for reluctance, we shall develop various ideas to attract more people to get vaccinated,” added a senior civic officer.Meanwhile, an officer who was part of the door-to-door survey said, “There are some who have recently recovered from Covid, a few others who are facing health issues and need to consult their doctor before taking the vaccine. However, there are many others who continue to feel that the vaccine is not safe and hence are sceptical about getting jabbed.”From among the target population of around 18 lakh within Thane city, there are around 38% senior citizens and 31% in the 45-59 years age group who have taken the first dose but not yet take the second jab. Similarly, in the 18-45 years age group, there are 68% who are waiting to get their second dose.“Some among them must have taken their second dose at other municipal corporations as well or some who had visited Thane for the first dose must have taken the second dose as per convenience. As all these are assumed figures including the target population for vaccination in each city, it will be difficult to claim that we have 100% vaccination. Despite this, we are aiming at vaccinating as many as possible,” added Malvi.It was only after August that the supply of vaccine doses gained momentum. Those who have been jabbed during that time will only be due for their second dose by November.“I took my first dose of the vaccine in September. I will be due next week for the second dose. I had to delay the vaccination process as I was detected Covid positive and was advised by the doctor to take the vaccination after all post-Covid symptoms subside,” said Shashank Kankal, a 48-year-old resident of Patlipada, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-starts-door-to-door-survey-to-take-stock-of-people-vaccinated-101635423169657.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Slain sharpshooter of Mukhtar gang had planned to target trader leader in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Dreaded sharpshooter of Mukhtar Ansari gang, Ali Sher, 34, who along with his accomplice Kamran, was gunned down by the UP Special Task Force (STF) in Lucknow’s Madiaon area on Wednesday night, had a 24-year-long criminal history, said police.The sharpshooter’s mobile records also revealed that he was planning to target a trader leader in Lucknow. Ali Sher’s name surfaced in 20 criminal cases, including the murder of politician, Jeetram Munda, in Ranchi district of Jharkhand, said an STF official. Munda, a BJP leader, was shot dead in a hotel in Ranchi on September 22, after which the police declared a reward of ₹1 lakh on Ali Sher’s head.The official said Ali Sher entered into the crime world after a case of rioting, and criminal intimidation was registered against him in a clash with some people of his native village Bairideeh in Azamgarh in January 1997. “Between 1997 and 2002, seven cases were registered against him at Devgaon police station in Azamgarh before his name surfaced in the murder of a contractor in Bardah area of Azamgarh. Thereafter, Ali Sher got the patronage of jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and he emerged as one of the dreaded shooters the latter’s gang,” he said.The official said Ali Sher’s name came to fore in six murders and many cases of attempt to murder between 2002 and 2021. As many as 20 criminal cases were registered against him Azamgarh, Mau and Ranchi (Jharkhand) between 1997 and 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/slain-sharpshooter-of-mukhtar-gang-had-planned-to-target-trader-leader-in-lucknow-101635422387751.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Poona’s coffee connection: An affair that began in 1839||Archives tell stories. They can capture lives, and what people meant to others, and preserve them long after memory has faded. Many years ago, while going through the digitised copies of the newspaper “Jnanaprakash” at SPPU, I came across an interesting report, probably from 1864. “The coffee plantations at Mundhwa and Hadapsar in the Haveli taluka have been ruined due to a dispute between the owners. It’s a pity because we have heard that the coffee was praised by the Europeans living in the Cantonment area”, the report read.This piqued my interest. I had never heard of coffee plantations in Pune till then. What further excited me were two reports I found shortly after in another newspaper.On July 26, 1834, “Bombay Courier” translated and reproduced a report that had originally appeared in the Marathi newspaper “Darpan”. “At the request of Lord Clare, Mr William Sundt, an East Indian gentleman, well known for his skill and ingenuity in practical mechanics, has erected in the Government Garden at Dapooree, a machine to raise water from the river, for the purposes of irrigation”, it said. The engine by which this was affected was as simple as it was ingenious, consisting of three forcing pumps which were worked by a windmill, and were capable of raising, in ten hours, 3,444 hogsheads of water from the river, which flowed from 50 to 60 feet below the level of the garden. “When we consider how much good might accrue to the Dukhun, were a number of such works constructed along the Rivers which run through the country, we cannot help lamenting that the government does not adopt a more liberal system of fiscal administration, which might encourage the expenditure of capital on such works of general utility”, it concluded.Another report in the very next issue of the same newspaper mentioned that Sundt was planning to erect the same “machine” at his farms in Mundhwa.Was this the same coffee plantation “Jnanaprakash” had mentioned? Who was Sundt? And who were the “other owners”?I kept on finding missing pieces to this jigsaw puzzle for the next several years with the help of Revenue, Land, and Horticultural Reports published in the first half of the 19th century. William Sundt and William Webbe were two enterprising and respectable Anglo-Indians who had well-cultivated gardens in the villages of Mudhwa and Hadapsar. Besides growing oranges, grapes, and other fruits, they turned their attention to the cultivation of the coffee plant.Their affair with growing coffee began in 1839. The Bombay Chamber of Commerce considered it excellent both in quality and “cleanness”, and said it would fetch the same price as the best Mocha coffee or about 2d. the pound ( ₹14 the Surat man of 40 pounds). To encourage the experiment, the Government granted Messrs. Sundt and Webbe ten acres of land close to their garden. Red gravelly soil, according to Sundt, was the best suited for the coffee plant.The plant when young requires a great deal of shade. When about a year old it is planted in open ground where for at least four years, it must be screened for the extreme heat of the sun.To shade the coffee bushes, Sundt grew castor-oil plants around the young trees.He thought that much of the Poona soil was admirably suited to the coffee plant. He particularly recommended some spots of red gravelly soil between Khandala and Karla.In 1842-43, Sundt and Webbe grew plants from seed furnished to them by Colonel Capon which he had brought from the city of Mocha, Yemen. The next year, they had seven thousand seedlings in their nursery ready for planting, and several berry-bearing trees which were fair specimens of fine coffee plants. A sample of coffee was submitted to the Chamber of Commerce who considered it “equal to Mocha coffee”. They successfully cultivated the crop for the next few years. The coffee beans were sold all over Bombay and Madras Presidencies.William Webbe and William Sundt were among the first generation of surveyors and draughtsmen who drew the maps of British India. Webbe was the “half-caste” son of a British sergeant, according to the “Historical records of Survey of India – Vol. 3”, written by Col RH Phillimore. Webbe was apprenticed and educated at the Madras Surveying School. Sundt, who was the son of a Captain of the Madras Establishment, left the Orphan Asylum of that Presidency to enter the Quarter-Master-General’s Office in 1806, in which he was employed as “Surveyor and Draughtsman”. He had accompanied both, Major-General Sir John Malcolm’s missions to Persia as a surveyor – 1799 to 1801 and 1809 to 1810 – and compiled the maps. He is also credited for drawing the first maps of Malwa, along with the divisions of districts.Malcolm’s memoir mentions that several maps published by the Survey of India Office would not have been possible without the participation of Sundt and Webbe.Sundt and Webbe were later transferred to carry out the Revenue surveys in Gujarat, after which they were employed in the Survey of India Office in the Bombay Presidency. When James Sutherland chose to make Poona his headquarters after becoming the Deputy Surveyor-General of India in 1822, he brought them to the city to work under him. The historical records of the Survey of India are replete with praises showered upon them for their professionalism, keen intellect, and skill in drawing maps.It appears that Sundt and Webbe, who had closely worked with each other in the Survey of India Office, formed a partnership of sorts in Poona, and ventured into horticulture post-retirement.After successfully dabbling with coffee, Sundt devoted his attention to growing sugarcane. He brought cultures from Mauritius, and within a couple of years had mastered the art of growing sugarcane around Poona. His was probably the first sugarcane farm around Poona if one has to believe the Horticultural Reports published by the government.According to the Horticultural Report published in 1839, the government made several extensive purchases of canes from him. They were distributed for cuttings in the Ahmednagar and Poona districts. When Thomas Williams, Revenue Commissioner, Bombay Presidency, encamped at a village near Ahmednagar, he found that seven bighas were cultivated by one individual, and the specimen of the produce “looked very good”. They were about “three times the size of the common cane”.Sundt and Webbe also set up a unit to manufacture jaggery. They sold kakavi (molasses) in the markets of Poona and Bombay.Sundt passed away in 1856, after which Webbe became the sole owner of the farms. This was challenged in the court by one Mrs Loster, who was an illegitimate daughter of Sundt. She and her husband were helping Sundt run the farm in his last days. The judge ordered both the parties to jointly manage the farms.The fate of the farms and the coffee and cane plantations thereafter is not known. While the Western part of Maharashtra is now famed for its sugarcane plantations, coffee is not cultivated in the region anymore.I hope someone someday follows the footsteps of Sundt and grows coffee “as good as Mocha” in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/poonas-coffee-connection-an-affair-that-began-in-1839-101635421966517.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Win some, lose some: Former AG Mukul Rohatgi on Bombay HC bail to Aryan Khan||Former attorney general of India Mukul Rohatgi said his arguments leading to the Bombay high court finally granting bail to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the drugs-on-cruise case was a regular matter while expressing happiness over the day’s developments.Speaking to reporters outside the court, the senior advocate said, “They (Aryan and his co-accused in the case Arbaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha) will come out of jail after the order is released from the court. For me, it is a regular case -- to win some, to lose some. I am happy that he (Khan) has got bail.”They (Aryan Khan, Arbaz Merchant & Munmum Dhamecha) will come of the jail after the order is released from the court... For me, it is a regular case - to win some, to lose some. I am happy that he (Khan) has got bail: Former AG Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Khan in Bombay HC pic.twitter.com/UorRf4qmx0The high court granted bail to the starkid, currently lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail since the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested him and others late on October 2 night, after hearing arguments for three days. Also read | Rehab, not jail: Mukul Rohatgi cites Centre's reform plans in Aryan's bail pleaAryan was arrested along with the others following a raid by the federal agency on a Goa-bound ship off Mumbai’s coast earlier this month. The trio had moved the high court last week after the special NDPS Act court rejected their bail applications.Rohatgi said, “The detailed order will be given tomorrow (Friday). Hopefully, all of them will come out of the jail by tomorrow or Saturday.”Rohatgi had joined a battery of top lawyers of the country, including Satish Manshinde, on Tuesday to argue on behalf of the Bollywood star’s son seeking bail in the case. The superstar had also roped in the law firm, Karanjawala & Company, senior partners Ruby Singh Ahuja and Sandeep Kapur, to argue for his son. Besides eminent legal eyes like Anandini Fernandes along with Rustom Mulla, a partner at Desai Desai Carrimjee & Mulla, joined the case.Also read | Aryan Khan case: Bail not a rule, but exception in drugs cases, says NCBEarlier in the day, Rohatgi, while making his final submissions in the case, said Aryan knew nobody on the ship except for Arbaaz and Achit Kumar. Kumar, the NCB has said, was arrested based on the star-son’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/win-some-lose-some-former-ag-mukul-rohatgi-on-bombay-hc-bail-to-aryan-khan-101635421648507.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad University cancels even semester exams||Allahabad University (AU) has decided to cancel the exams of even semesters that were to be held in offline mode from November 23. This decision was taken in a meeting of examination committee held on Thursday. “The offline exams of the even semesters (2, 4, 6, 8) stand cancelled and the students will now be promoted to the next semester on the basis of their internal assessment marks,” said university’s public relations officer (PRO) Jaya Kapoor while confirming the development. In the online meeting chaired by vice chancellor prof Sangita Srivastava and attended by Allahabad University controller of examinations prof Ramendra Kumar Singh among others, it was also resolved that the students will be promoted to the higher semester and their classes will start after Diwali vacations in hybrid (online/offline) mode.“The classes will, however, continue in offline mode from December 17 keeping the then prevailing Covid conditions in view,” said the university’s PRO citing the decisions taken in the meeting. “As decided in the virtual meeting, the annual exams will be held after second week of March 2022 in offline mode strictly following the Covid guidelines,” she added.Controller of examinations (CoE) prof Ramendra Kumar Singh wrote a letter to all deans and heads of departments besides principals of constituent colleges on Wednesday informing that the semester examinations will be conducted in offline mode. In protest against this decision, the students started a demonstration on the varsity campus on Thursday morning. The students gathered at the students’ union building and even disrupted post graduate classes being conducted in offline mode there.They were demanding that when the classes had been held in online mode, the exams too should be held in virtual mode only. They also reached the CoE office and raised slogans against the decision following which an emergency meeting of the examination committee was convened.Earlier in the first week of April this year, AU had postponed all exams, being held at Allahabad University and its constituent colleges, including those being held in online mode. AU and its constituent colleges were completely closed till April 21. Later, even the summer vacations of AU were started early in a way that the days lost in offline teaching could be compensated. However, as the situation of Covid-19 pandemic was not completely under control, though the campus of AU was opened in phased manner for administrative officials and later for teaching faculty members, but the teaching at AU was kept restricted to online mode. This continued till last month even though many of the departments conducted seminars, meetings and courses in offline mode. A section of student leaders on the campus had continued with their agitation for starting teaching in offline mode. In the meantime, research scholars were asked to come to their respective departments and continue with their research work. Later, even hostels were opened for them. But after resorting to online mode of teaching till September, varsity authorities decided to open the departments for offline teaching starting from October 1. However, barring few departments, most of the departments has witnessed thin attendance of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-cancels-even-semester-exams-101635421846422.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges hold camps to vaccinate students as offline learning resumes||Colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai are organising student vaccination drives aiming to get most students vaccinated against Covid 19 before offline physical classes start in full swing.The Hyderabad Sind National Collegiate University (HSNCU) on Thursday organised a day long vaccination camp and invited students to take advantage of the session. “HSNC University is organising this drive along with a charitable trust and we welcome any and everyone to come and get vaccinated,” said Hemlata Bagla, vice chancellor of the university. In the second week of October, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced reopening of college campuses across the state, starting October 20. A related government resolution (GR) issued on October 13 stated that colleges must set up vaccination camps for students because only fully vaccinated staff and students were allowed to attend physical classes.Also Read: Kalyan Dombivli civic body to act on illegal, unsafe buildingsSome lead colleges have also decided to conduct vaccination drives for students of colleges under their particular cluster. “We have eleven colleges under our cluster and ours is the lead college, so we will conduct a drive for students from all colleges under our cluster on Friday. Colleges are reaching out to as many students as possible and encouraging them to get vaccinated,” said Neha Jagtani, principal (in-charge), R D National College.A similar two-day drive is being conducted at Mithibai College in Vile Parle and many neighbouring colleges have been asked to inform their respective students about the same. “Since Mithibai is already organising the drive, we have informed our students about it and are encouraging as many as possible to get vaccinated,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-colleges-hold-camps-to-vaccinate-students-as-offline-learning-resumes-101635421006171.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police summon NCB witness, BJP worker Manish Bhanushali||Mumbai Police on Thursday summoned BJP worker Manish Bhanushali who was a witness in the drugs in cruise ship case for questioning. Manish Bhanushali was among the nine independent witnesses of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which also includes KP Gosavi, who were involved in the cruise ship raid which led to the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan along with others.While a photo of NCB’s ‘key witness’ Kiran Gosavi with Aryan Khan went viral, Bhanushali was seen with Arbaaz Merchant, another arrested in the case who is accused of possession of drugs.Earlier this month, two complaints were filed against Bhanushali regarding his role in the raid. On October 13, a lawyer Kanishk Jayant alleged criminal conspiracy by Bhanushali and four others including Gosavi and requested Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale to file an FIR for extortion and their suspicious role in Cordelia Cruise Drug Case.Bhanushali along with Gosavi were also among those who were present in the NCB office when Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were taken to the NCB office. The FIR filed by advocate Jayant questioned how the NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede allowed Gosavi and Bhanushali to take physical custody of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha.Another lawyer Sudha Dwivedi on Tuesday approached MRA Marg Police Station for registration of an FIR against Bhanushali, NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani and three witnesses in the drug case - Prabhakar Sail, Manish Bhanushali and Kiran Gosavi - over allegations of extortion. The MRA Marg Police Station however did not register the FIR. Dwivedi alleged that Bhanushali and others allegedly committed ‘extortion by threat of accusation of an offence’ in the case.Bhanushali, earlier this month, accepted that he was escorting Arbaaz Merchant out of the International Cruise Terminal. He, however, denied dragging any of them. He also claimed that he was an informer in this case.Kiran Gosavi, who is the key witness, according to the NCB, was arrested on Wednesday by the Pune Police. The Pune Police said that Gosavi was arrested for his alleged role in a 2018 cheating case. Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told HT that the Mumbai Police is yet to seek custody of Gosavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-summon-ncb-witness-bjp-worker-manish-bhanushali-101635419381680.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Savouring simple pleasures of a window seat to Ladakh||It had been a while since I stepped out of the house, let alone enter an aeroplane. But having received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, I recently decided to join the rest of India in 2021’s hottest tourist destination, Ladakh. When they learnt of my plan, my friends chastised me for breaking the cardinal rule of visiting Ladakh on a motorcycle, as I opted for the faster and more convenient mode of air travel. “At least take a window seat,” one of my friends begged me, acutely aware of my disdain for window seats. After much accosting, aided by some lovely photographs from Instagram, I finally relented and occupied a window seat, ready to fly to Leh. Little did I know, though, that this would be my best decision in recent times. No sooner did my flight take off from Chandigarh than Punjab’s lush fields filled the view, only to be replaced by the verdant, rolling hills of the Shivaliks. As the plane ascended, I tried concentrating on my Kindle, but the magnificent spectacle captivated me. Leh was still far, but snow-capped mountains filled the panorama as far as the eye could see from the plane’s window. The tall trans-Himalayan mountains seemed to salute us, standing tall and mighty like sentinels posted to welcome us, while a small village here or there added to the mystical, infectious charm of Ladakh even before I had officially set foot there. Below us, the mighty Indus flowed across the foothills, embellishing the mountains like a necklace of pearls. I first sat in an aeroplane when I hit my teens and like most children, found myself drawn to the window seat. Despite my Punjabi relatives’ bad attempts at cracking unimaginative jokes and advising me not to throw my hands outside the window, I used to love watching large cities like Delhi, Bombay and Calcutta merge with the infinite sky, even if this moment lasted for a few minutes before the flight ascended. With time, however, I outgrew my fascination for window seats. I preferred aisle seats, which offered more flexibility and space to wrap up pending work on my laptop. My recent flight to Leh turned out to be a literal and metaphorical ride through various emotions. I stopped everything that I was doing and admired every second of the journey, falling in love with the natural beauty that cannot be seen anywhere else, untouched by urban pollution. I also saw my childhood flash in front of me, recollecting the several adventures I accompanied my parents on. They passed on their travel bug to me, always encouraging my sister and me to explore as many places as possible. I recalled the simpler days of childhood when a window seat was all it took for me to experience a bout of euphoria that today, only a cup of piping hot, spicy masala chai gives me. With a good cup of masala chai becoming rarer each day, it might be a good idea for all of us to take the window seat sometimes, doing nothing but admiring the cities float by under blankets of cloud which challenge our imagination every moment of the journey. I look forward to my next adventure on a window seat, with only a cup of masala chai to keep me going till then! rishabhkochhar92@gmail.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/savouring-simple-pleasures-of-a-window-seat-to-ladakh-101635419866165.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB’s Sameer Wankhede asked HC for arrest shield, told he will get 3-day notice||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday disposed of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s plea for an arrest shield after the Maharashtra government told the bench that its inquiry was still at a preliminary stage and it will give the officer a three-day notice before taking coercive action against him. The government’s assurance in the high court came on a petition filed by Wankhede who complained that he was being personally attacked by the state government.Wankhede, who is leading the federal drug enforcement agency’s investigations into the cases registered after a raid on a cruise ship, wanted the high court to bar the police from arresting him. His lawyer mentioned the NCB officer’s plea before a bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Vijay Shivram Kotwal on Thursday to seek urgent relief.Also Read: How the focus shifted from Aryan Khan to NCB’s Sameer Wankhede“I am personally attacked by the state government. My apprehension is they will arrest me. I want interim protection in the form of no coercive action,” the NCB officer told the judges. He also wanted the probe to be transferred from Maharashtra and entrusted to a federal agency such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).A public prosecutor, appearing for the Maharashtra government, said the police received four complaints and was at the stage of conducting a preliminary inquiry to establish the veracity of the complaints.After the public prosecutor assured the judges that the police will give him three days’ notice before taking any steps, the bench disposed of the petition.The three-day notice will give Wankhede sufficient time to petition a court against the move.Also Read: NCB Hq also got cruise ship tip but decided not to act, Sameer Wankhede went aheadWankhede’s decision to rush to the court for an arrest shield comes after the Mumbai police started inquiring into the complaints received against the NCB officer, apart from two complaints against the Maharashtra minister and leader of the ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) Nawab Malik.Nawab Malik has been continuously attacking the revenue service officers for the last few days, especially after startling revelations by Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the NCB’s cruise ship drug raid case in which Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan is arrested by the agency along with several others.Aryan Khan, friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, who were arrested by a team led by Wankhede on October 3 after a raid on a cruise ship have all been in custody for 23 days.A controversy erupted after Prabhakar Sail, one of the witnesses cited by the NCB for the raid, filed an affidavit sworn before a notary on October 23, alleged that he overheard his former employer Kiran Gosavi, also a witness in the Aryan Khan-cruise drug case, talking to a person about settling the matter for ₹18 crore and that amount of ₹8 crore would be required to be paid to Wankhede.Sail, who said that he worked as the bodyguard of Kiran Gosavi, also a witness in the Aryan Khan-cruise drug case, also claimed that the NCB officers led by Wankhede got him to sign on blank papers that were later filled up by them.Sail’s statement was recorded by a special police team set up to probe the six complaints including four against Wankhede. “He has shared all details to substantiate his claims,” Sail’s lawyer Tushar Khandare said on Wednesday.Kiran Gosavi, who went missing after the Pune police reopened a probe against him in another case, was detained late on Wednesday. The Pune police said Gosavi will be formally placed under arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncbs-sameer-wankhede-asked-hc-for-arrest-shield-told-he-will-get-3-day-notice-101635418666040.html
28-10-2021||Jaipur||‘Violating right to live with dignity’: NCW demands action as sleeves of girl candidates sliced during exam||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday wrote to Rajasthan chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya demanding strict action against an incident where a male security guard was allegedly seen cutting the sleeves of women candidates outside an examination centre in Rajasthan’s Bikaner on Wednesday.“The National Commission for Women is appalled at the reported incident. It is utterly humiliating to make women go through such harassment and NCW strongly condemns the shameful incident. The Commission has taken suo motu cognisance in the matter,” read a press note released by the NCW.According to reports, the sleeves of women candidates who appeared for the prelims of Rajasthan Administrative Services preliminary examination on Wednesday were snapped off using a pair of scissors by male security guards at several exam centres, including in Bikaner. At the same time, reports also alleged that men wearing full sleeve shirts were asked to take the exam shirtless.“Chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Chief Secretary, Government of Rajasthan seeking strict action against those responsible in violating the right of women to live with dignity. The Commission has also sought an explanation as to why no female guard was deputed to search female candidates at the center,” the statement read.@NCWIndia has taken cognisance of the incident. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to Chief Secretary, Rajasthan to take strict action against those responsible. NCW has also sought an explanation as to why no female guard was deputed for checking the female candidates. https://t.co/GS65FT9Y00The objectionable move was apparently adopted to ensure "strictness" in view of the malpractices reported during the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) earlier this year. The Rajasthan government had taken several measures, including suspending mobile internet, bulk messaging and social media access on the day of the exam to prevent cheating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/violating-right-to-live-with-dignity-ncw-demands-action-as-sleeves-of-girl-candidates-sliced-during-exam-101635413871812.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan case: Bail not a rule, but exception in cases under NDPS Act, says NCB||Additional solicitor general Anil Singh said Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was not a first-time but regular consumer of drugs and he was in touch with peddlers.Singh, arguing before the Bombay high court for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Aryan has been arrested along with others, said a peddler, Achit Kumar, was arrested based on the star-son’s statement.“There was mention of bulk drugs. Considering that, the offence is non-bailable,” Singh said, adding all the offences in the case are non-bailable under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.However, former attorney general of India Mukul Rohtagi, making his final arguments on behalf of Aryan, said he knew nobody on the ship except Arbaaz and Achit.  "Achit was arrested after four days. He was said to be dealer and had 2.4 grams (of drug), but a dealer should have 200gm," Rohatgi said.Singh further said that Aryan's lawyers have argued bail is a rule, but that is not case under the NDPS Act. “Bail is not a rule. Supreme court judgements say under NDPS act, bail is not the rule, but exception. The SC says it is a heinous crime worse than culpable homicide and has to be dealt with stringently,” he said. “If a person might have not committed a crime but attempted it, that itself is a crime,” the ASG said.“No recovery does not mean the person has not committed the offence. There was no recovery still the person can be held liable,” he said.Responding to Rohatgi’s argument that no test was done on Aryan and hence, the arrest was wrong, Singh said if there was no consumption, why should the test be conducted. “My case is of possession. You were found in possession. Aryan Khan was found in conscious possession of contraband. He has accepted it in his statement and panchnama.This is the third day in the bail application hearing of Aryan in the Bombay high court. Aryan was arrested with others after the NCB conducted a raid on the Goa-bound cruise off the coast of Mumbai late on October 2.At present, Aryan is lodged at the Arthur Road Jail along with Merchant, while Munmun Dhamecha, another accused in the case, is at the Byculla women prison.The ASG submitted chats of Aryan with Arbaaz Merchant, a friend and accused in the case, to Justice Nitin Sambre. He said the chats revealed there was an attempt to deal in drugs on commercial quantity. “Eight persons were apprehended on the ship. It cannot be a coincidence, we are investigating,” Singh said.“From the eight persons arrested at the terminal, we have seized commercial quantity. The cruise trip was just for two days. It is a case of conspiracy. It cannot be a coincidence they gathered with multiple drugs,” he added.Singh said that Aryan's lawyers have claimed they were not found in possession of drugs and later added it was in small quantity."Arbaaz has been found in possession. Aryan had knowledge (of the same). He was aware and it was consumption for both. They specifically said it was for cruise journey."Concluding his submissions, Singh said the arrests were legal. "Conspiracy is difficult to prove, the conspirators know how they conspired. I leave it to the conscious of the court," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-regular-consumer-of-drugs-in-touch-with-peddlers-asg-anil-singh-for-ncb-101635414510167.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 convicted in Haryana CBSE topper gangrape case of 2018||A fast-track court in Haryana’s Narnaul town on Thursday convicted three main accused and acquitted five others in the CBSE topper gangrape case. The sentence of the accused will be pronounced on Friday. The incident took place on September 12, 2018, when the then 18-year-old CBSE topper on her way to a coaching centre in Mahendragarh district was abducted and raped. A chargesheet was filed against eight accused with Pankaj, Nishu Phogat and Manish being named as the main accused and Deen Dayal, Naveen, Dr Sanjeev, Manjit and Abhishek faced other charges. Also read: Now, access Haryana revenue records at click of a buttonAfter hearing arguments from both sides, additional district and sessions judge Mona Singh convicted main accused Pankaj, Nishu and Manish, who were booked under Sections 328 (forcibily administering intoxicating substances), 365 (kidnapping) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. The judge acquitted the five other accused booked under Sections 202, 118 and 216 of the IPC. Ex-army man from victim’s village convicted The gangrape made headlines in 2018 after the police booked eight people, including an army man. The police said that the three accused intercepted the girl, who was a state-level kabbadi player when she was on her way to a coaching centre from her native village in Rewari district. She was taken to a field, where the accused’s accomplices joined them. In her statement, the victim said that Pankaj, who was then in the army and who she knew, and Manish, both residents of her village, met her near Kosli bus stand in Mahendragarh district when she was going to attend her coaching class. They offered her a glass of water after drinking which she fell unconscious. The duo along with Nishu took her in a car to a well in a nearby field and gave me another drink. They raped here there, she had told the police. Victim’s families allege threat from accused The accused were arrested four days later. The rape survivor’s family alleged that five accused out on bail and now acquitted used to send threats to them. A senior police official, who was part of the special investigation team, said the team recorded statements of 23 people in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-convicted-in-haryana-cbse-topper-gangrape-case-of-2018-101635413145754.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder’s meeting with Amit Shah on farm stir postponed||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers’ agitation has been postponed. The two-time former chief minister was to meet the Union home minister with a non-political delegation of agriculture experts and agriculturists from Punjab. Also read: BSF jurisdiction: Capt backs move, says force not going to take over Punjab“The meeting has been postponed due to Shah’s visit to Gujarat,” said a person privy to Capt Amarinder Singh’s efforts to resolve the standoff between the Centre and farmer unions and who was part of the delegation On Wednesday, Capt Amarinder Singh said he had been discussing various options with the Union home minister and others. “I think I can help in finding a solution as I have been the chief minister of Punjab and am also an agriculturist,” he said at a press conference in Chandigarh. While there could be no pre-decided formula for the resolution of the farmers’ stir, something would emerge during the talks as both sides, the central government and farmers, want a resolution to the crisis triggered by the farm laws, he said, clarifying that he had not met any farmer leader. Capt Amarinder also said he had deliberately not intervened in the matter as the farmers did not want politicians involved. Made to resign as the chief minister following months of tussle and turbulence in the Punjab Congress, Capt Amarinder has already announced that he is launching his own party. He had earlier said that any seat sharing arrangement with the BJP for the Punjab elections would be subject to a resolution of the farmers’ issue in their interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-s-meeting-with-amit-shah-on-farm-stir-postponed-101635412485646.html
28-10-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 pandemic: Karnataka school shut after 33 students test positive||Authorities shut a school near Madikeri town in Karnataka’s Kodagu district after at least 33 students at the institution tested positive for Covid-19.According to health officials, the outbreak was reported at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Galibeedu village.School authorities told government health officials that the cases were confirmed after Class 10 students were tested for Covid-19. The state government had reopened in-person classes for classes 9 and 10 in all its districts after the daily Covid-19 case tally dipped in recent weeks. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya was among the schools that reopened on September 20. “Within five days of reopening, two students reported fever. When they were tested, coronavirus [infection] was confirmed,” said a health department official. After that case, all Class 10 students were isolated and tested. Classes reopened after their tests were negative. A little over a month after that episode, two more students showed symptoms of Covid-19 and later tested positive. Around 270 Class 10 students were then tested for the virus, and 33 of them tested positive on Wednesday. All 33 students are asymptomatic and have been isolated. While the positivity rate in the district stood at 0.19% on Tuesday, it rose to 1.21% on Wednesday following the detection of the new cluster of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-pandemic-karnataka-school-shut-after-33-students-test-positive-101635408885394.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||BKU (Ugrahan) demands probe into Bahadurgarh truck accident||The three women who were crushed to death by a truck at the farmers’ protest site on the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Thursday morning belonged to Khewa Dyalu village in Mansa district. Also read: 3 women farm protesters from Punjab killed as truck hits them in BahadurgarhThe women were activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). BKU Mansa district president Ram Singh Bhainibagha said the victims were scheduled to return to their native village Khewa Dyalu near Bhikhi block later on Thursday. “The women activists joined the protest site with a group of volunteers from the village on October 18. After staying for 10 days at Tikri, they were returning home today. Our union smells foul play behind the incident and wants a speedy investigation,” said Bhainibagha. The women were frequent participants at the dharna site, he said. The bodies of Amarjit Kaur, 51, Sukhwinder Kaur, 55, and Gurmail Kaur, 65, were kept at a government hospital in Bahadurgarh. Another victim, Gumail Kaur, suffered serious injuries and was admitted to Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak, while Harjit Kaur, the second injured woman, was undergoing treatment at Bahadurgarh. “The BKU leaders are camping at Bahadurgarh and have resolved not to conduct post-mortem until the culprit is arrested,” he said. BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan demanded each family of the deceased should get a compensation of ₹10 lakh, complete loan waiver of the families and a government job to a member of the aggrieved family. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the next of kin of each of the dead and free treatment of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bku-ugrahan-demands-probe-into-bahadurgarh-truck-accident-101635407085558.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||DM Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya transferred over Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||The Uttar Pradesh government late on Wednesday transferred Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya, the district magistrate (DM) of Lakhimpur Kheri, replacing him with Mahendra Bahadur Singh, who was Mainpuri’s DM. The move came in the backdrop of violence and the deaths of eight people at a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.A total of 10 IAS officers were transferred, including the district magistrates of six districts. In new DM appointments, Chandrabhushan Tripathi will handle Hamirpur, Arun Kumar takes charge of Mau, Sheshmani Pandey will go to Amethi, Avinash Krishna Singh has been given charge of Mainpuri, and Alok Singh will be posted in Lalitpur. Suraj Patel has been made joint magistrate of Meerut and Anuraj Jain has been made joint magistrate of Kanpur.Also Read: Lakhimpur Kheri case: SIT urges witnesses to come forward, shares phone numbersThe move came as the Uttar Pradesh government faced flak over the October 3 violence and deaths in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia, which was triggered when a car that was part of a convoy of union minister of state Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, allegedly ran over protesting farmers.The district administration has been blamed for mishandling the case and delaying action following the deaths.Ashish Mishra, among the prime accused in the case, was arrested on October 9 after hours of interrogation.The Supreme Court has taken up the case suo motu, pulling up the Uttar Pradesh police for sluggish progress in its probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dm-arvind-kumar-chaurasiya-transferred-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-101635406185745.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 Jalandhar cops suspended for laxity on Punjab deputy CM’s orders||Three police personnel posted at the Phillaur checkpoint in Jalandhar district were placed under suspension on Thursday for negligence on the orders of Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio. Also read: 3 women farm protesters from Punjab killed as truck hits them in BahadurgarhJalandhar (rural) senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh suspended the three officials after Randhawa conducted a surprise check to ascertain the ground situation with regard to the security at nakas (checkpoints) on GT Road and traffic management at congested spots on the highway. A senior police official requesting anonymity said that when Randhawa crossed the Phillaur hi-tech checkpoint, he found no police personnel present. He stopped the convoy and found that the policemen were in a room near the checkpoint. When questioned, they failed to come up with a satisfactory explanation. Randhawa said that in view of the festive season, police personnel should be vigilant and also ensure efficient traffic management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-jalandhar-cops-suspended-for-laxity-on-punjab-deputy-cm-s-orders-101635405584990.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Kejriwal on two-day visit to meet AAP leaders, farmers, traders||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Sangrur on Thursday. Accompanied by Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP Punjab MLAs and Raghav Chadha, the co-in charge of the party’s political affairs in Punjab, Kejriwal is holding a meeting with the party leadership. Also read: 3 women farm protesters from Punjab killed as truck hits them in BahadurgarhKejriwal reached Sangrur by train around 11am and headed for Mann’s house. After interacting with party leaders, the Delhi CM is to meet farmers and businessmen in Mansa and Bathinda districts, respectively. This is Kejriwal’s second visit to Punjab this month in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. “Kejriwal will discuss a number of issues concerning Punjab with party MLAs at my house on Thursday. After lunch, he will leave for Mansa to meet farmers whose crops were damaged by pink bollworm attack and rain,” Mann said. “Farmers and businessmen in Punjab are having a hard time. Successive governments have given them false hope. All political parties have only deceived them,” Chadha said in a video message in Punjabi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-kejriwal-on-two-day-visit-to-meet-aap-leaders-farmers-traders-101635403845026.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab militant Barapind, 8 others get life term in 2015 murder case||The Jalandhar additional district and sessions court on Wednesday convicted Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member and former militant Kulbir Singh Barapind and eight others in a 2015 murder case over property dispute and sentenced them to life imprisonment.There were 13 accused in the case, including Barapind, of which two Mohinder Pal and Thakur Das died, while two others, NRI Resham Chand and Balbir Singh, were declared proclaimed offenders. Also read: 3 women farm protesters from Punjab killed as truck hits them in BahadurgarhIn November 2015, Shingara Chand, 55, was shot dead by Barapind at Salaspur village in the district, while three others, Lachhman Dass, Harvilas Kaler and Jeewan Kaler, sustained injuries. According to the FIR, Lachhman Das of Salaspur told the police that he and his brother Harvilas and Shingara Chand were at his home when he was informed that Mohinder Pal, Barapind and others trespassed on his agriculture land. When they went to the fields, Barapind fired a gunshot and Shingara died on the spot. Shingara had a dispute with NRI Resham Chand over his 12 acres of land.In June 2006, Barapind was extradited from the US for his alleged involvement in 32 criminal cases. He was later acquitted in three of these cases. He was also booked in the murder case of former minister Darshan Singh, father of former MP and Congress leader Mohinder Singh Kaypee. Various cases were registered against Barapind under charges of murder, attempt to murder, Arms Act and TADA between 1991 and 1993 in Phillaur, Goraya and Nurmahal areas of Jalandhar district. In 2014, a Jalandhar court acquitted Barapind in a sedition case registered against him by Goraya police. The case was filed against him in September 2012 for allegedly waging war against the state and indulging into unlawful activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-militant-barapind-8-others-get-life-term-in-2015-murder-case-101635402465305.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil infected with Covid-19 for 2nd time||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Thursday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Walse, who is fully vaccinated, added that his condition is stable and he is following the doctor's advice.This is the second time that the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has been infected with Covid-19. Previously, Walse had tested positive in October 2020.Taking to Twitter, Walse said on Thursday, “After experiencing mild symptoms I decided to get tested for Covid-19. I have tested positive. My condition is stable and I am following my doctor’s advice. I urge all those who came in contact with me during Nagpur and Amravati tour and other programs, to get themselves tested.”In another tweet, the Maharashtra home minister appealed to the state's residents to follow all Covid-19 related protocols and avoid frequenting crowded places.After experiencing mild symptoms I decided to get tested for COVID-19. I have tested positive. My condition is stable and I am following my doctor’s advice. I urge all those who came in contact with me during Nagpur & Amravati tour, & other programs, to get themselves tested.Dilip Walse Patil is the latest politician in Maharashtra to be infected with the coronavirus disease.Previously, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) president Raj Thackeray tested Covid-19 positive on October 23. Dr Jalil Parkar of Lilavati Hospital told Hindustan Times that Raj along with his mother Kunda Thackeray and sister tested positive, and all are home quarantined.Maharashtra has so far registered 6,606,536 cases, 140,098 deaths, 6,443,342 recoveries and 19,480 active cases due to the coronavirus disease. On Wednesday, the state saw a marginal increase in new cases at 1,485 while 38 patients died and 2,536 recovered.The weekly Covid positivity rate in Maharashtra 1.45%. Some districts have a higher positivity rate include Sindhudurg (3.21 %), Pune (2.61%), Palghar (2.28%) among others.However, no district across Maharashtra has over 5% positivity, state surveillance officer Pradeep Awate told HT on Wednesday, adding that Covid-19 is under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-dilip-walse-patil-infected-with-covid-19-for-2nd-time-101635397779679.html
28-10-2021||Bhopal||Daughter reports murder to police, gets father arrested in Madhya Pradesh||A 35-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday after his 13-year-old daughter informed police that her father allegedly killed a friend after an argument and buried his body in a forest in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindawara district.Santosh Dehariya, a local police officer, said the girl is the only eyewitness to the alleged murder. He added she went to a police outpost on Tuesday to report the murder. “The girl lost her mother four years ago and she lived with her father and a younger brother, who was sleeping when the incident happened.” Dehariya said the girl was in shock but reported the matter to police courageously. “Police...detained her father (Kanhaiya) Barasiya... Initially, he denied the charges and was misguiding the police by saying the girl was upset as he had scolded her...” Dehariya said Barasiya eventually confessed to murdering Ajesh Verma after having liquor together. “...Barasiya invited him (Verma) to his house for food. ...the girl was sleeping... but Barasiya asked her to cook for Verma. Barasiya and Verma soon started fighting over the payment of liquor. Barasiya asked Verma for money. He attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon and killed him. Barasiya took the body to a nearby forest and buried it.”Also Read: CM Chouhan’s meal video fuels Cong dart on ‘missing’ LPG cylinder, BJP respondsBarasiya returned home and saw his daughter crying. “Barasiya threatened to kill the girl and her brother if she informed anyone about the murder. The girl was scared but told a neighbour about the incident. He did not believe her and asked to go to the police.”Police recovered the body and a local court sent Barasiya to jail on Wednesday.Sanju Barsiya, an uncle of the girl, said Kanhaiya Barasiya is an exorcist and a drunkard. “After the death of his first wife, he married another woman but she also left him because of his behaviour.” He added Kanhaiya Barasiya would make his daughter do all household chores and beat her up too. “After the death of my sister, I brought both children with me...but Kanhaiya fought with me and took them back.”Police were arranging for the girl’s counselling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/girl-reports-murder-to-police-gets-father-arrested-101635399284587.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Now, access Haryana revenue records at click of a button||Revenue records in Haryana can now be accessed at the click of the mouse. The task of setting up modern revenue record rooms at all district headquarters will be completed by November 15 and about 98% records have already been digitised.Also read: 3 women farm protesters from Punjab killed as truck hits them in BahadurgarhThis was stated by financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal, while presiding over a review meeting of SVAMTIVA scheme with deputy commissioners (DCs) on Wednesday.Kaushal said more than 18.7 crore documents, some dating back to before 1870, are being scanned, catalogued, and digitised for easy retrieval. Establishment of the modern revenue record rooms will ensure fast and convenient access to data, he said.Kaushal said so far, about 17.45 crore documents of total 18.7 crore have been uploaded. The images are being verified by revenue verifier, and more than 15.44 crore images have so far been verified.Similarly, 10% of the images are being randomly checked by the HARTRON and 20% by district revenue officer (DRO) to ensure accuracy.Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri districts have uploaded 100% documents, numbering more than 29.88 lakh and 21.31 lakh, respectively.While about 1.12 crore documents have been uploaded in Karnal, Hisar has uploaded more than 1.26 crore documents. More than 1.02 crore images have been uploaded in Bhiwani, 93.11 lakh in Yamunanagar, 72.28 lakh in Gurugram, and 94.63 lakh in Palwal.Kaushal said public notices are being published to inform people about getting Lal Dora property registered under the scheme.Apart from this, gram sabhas will be organised to settle claims and objections being received by district officials from village residents regarding property within Lal Dora.As many as 10.45 lakh property cards have so far been prepared and a portal is being created to resolve objections and disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-access-haryana-revenue-records-at-click-of-a-button-101635397724750.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 women farm protesters from Punjab killed as truck hits them in Bahadurgarh||Three women protesters from Mansa district of Punjab were killed and two others were injured when a speeding truck ran over them on the road divider near the Jhajjar flyover in neighbouring Haryana’s Bahadurgarh district early on Thursday. Also read: J&K Police say terrorist out to kill shopkeeper shot deadA Jhajjar police spokesman said that the incident took place at 6.30am when the women protesting against the three farm laws were waiting for an autorickshaw to reach the Bahadurgarh railway station to board a train for Punjab. “The women protesters were returning home on Thursday. They had been staying at the protest site in Bahadurgarh for the past few days. Farmers have been coming here and going back on rotation. The mishap occurred when these women were sitting on the road divider. Though the driver fled, we have impounded the truck that bears a Haryana registration number,” he said. Farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws and camping at Tikri border on the outskirts of Bahadurgarh for the past 11 months. The three women who died have been identified as Amarjeet Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur, and Gurmail Kaur, all residents of Mansa district. One of the two women injured has been referred from Bahadurgarh’s civil hospital to Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), where her condition is stated to be critical. Punjab CM announces ₹5 lakh relief for kin of deceased Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the next of kin of each of the dead and free treatment of the injured. “Nothing can compensate for the lives lost. The tragedy has caused irreparable loss to the families concerned of Punjab. However, taking recourse to financial relief, my government announces ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of the dead and free treatment for the injured,” Channi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-women-farm-protesters-from-punjab-killed-as-truck-hits-them-in-bahadurgarh-101635396705294.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Local trains back on track with full capacity, restrictions unchanged||Local trains in Mumbai were running at full capacity from Thursday, back to the pre-pandemic level after a gap of 19 months, although the Central and Western Railways have said that the existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols will remain in place for the general populace. Earlier, the local train services in the city were running at 95% capacity but considering the increase in the flow of passengers from October 28, the authorities have decided to keep the existing pandemic-necessitated norms in place to prevent a renewed outbreak of the infectious virus.The Central Railway is set to operate as many as 1,774 local train services from Thursday while the Western Railway will get 1,367 trains back on track. The services resumed from August 15 for fully vaccinated passengers, who can get a universal pass and a monthly railway pass for local train travel.According to a joint statement issued by the zonal railway divisions explaining the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for local train travel, only certain categories identified by the Maharashtra government shall be permitted for the railway journey. According to the current guidelines, only government employees and those involved with essential services are allowed to travel on the Mumbai suburban trains, in addition to the fully-vaccinated citizens above 18 years of age who have completed at least 14 days since the administration of the second dose of their vaccine.The suburban local trains are sometimes referred to as the “lifeline” of Mumbai, with as many as 80 lakh passengers using the railway services on a daily basis before the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.Meanwhile, the weekly positivity rate in Maharashtra has gone down to 1.45% with a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to the World Health Organisation, the positivity rate should remain below 5% for an outbreak to be considered under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-back-on-track-with-full-capacity-restrictions-unchanged-101635393773125.html
28-10-2021||Kolkata||With eye on state elections, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Goa today||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to begin a three-day maiden visit to Goa on Thursday with an eye on giving the Trinamool Congress (TMC) party a foothold in the state ahead of elections early next year for the 40-seat assembly.A senior TMC leader said the party supremo is expected to reach Goa on Thursday evening. She will be camping in the western state until Saturday.“She is likely to hold talks with various parties in the state and meet local communities. A few noted personalities are expected to join the TMC during her stay,” said the TMC leader without divulging details.The ruling TMC in Bengal, after retaining power with a sweeping victory in the assembly polls for the third consecutive time in May this year, has started expanding its base in other states. The party has already made inroads in Tripura with an eye on the assembly polls scheduled for 2023.Ahead of her Goa visit, Mamata Banerjee urged political parties to unite against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its “divisive agenda”.“As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and its divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Mamata Banerjee tweeted recently.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi to meet fishermen, people hit due to mining shutdown on Goa visitIn September, the TMC had sent a team of senior party leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien and Lok Sabha MP Prasun Banerjee, to Goa to assess the political situation before taking the plunge.Former Goa chief minister and veteran Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro has already joined the TMC. Last week, the party appointed Faleiro as its vice-president less than a month after of joined. Earlier this month, boxer Lenny Da Gama and footballer Denzil Franco joined the TMC party.Political strategist Prashant Kishor has been working with members of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) team to boost the TMC’s footprint in Goa and help build its image in the state. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who was appointed as the party’s national general secretary earlier this year, announced recently that the TMC will expand its presence in at least five states apart from Goa and Tripura, and set up working units in 15 other states ahead of the 2024 general elections.Ahead of Banerjee’s Goa visit, the TMC party had released what it called a “charge sheet” against the ruling BJP government in Goa, accusing it of overseeing a “double-engine disaster” in the coastal state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/with-eye-on-state-elections-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-visit-goa-today-101635394424142.html
28-10-2021||Bangalore||K'taka CM, Union minister Reddy to address tourism conference today in Bengaluru||Ministry of Tourism has organised a two-day conference of Tourism and Culture Ministers of the Southern Region in Karnataka's Bengaluru which will be addressed by Union Minister For Culture, Tourism And Development Of North Eastern Region G Kishan Reddy and state Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on its first day on Thursday.The Ministry of Tourism in an official statement said that the States and Union Territories of Southern Region are endowed with diverse tourist attractions and each State/UT has its own distinct features. It also said that the ministry is "continuously working on different verticals like infrastructure development, promotion and publicity, skill development etc. to facilitate the development of overall tourism in the region."The two days' programme on October 28 and 29, will have presentations by various Ministries including Tourism, Shipping, Railways and Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Archaeological Survey of India, NeGD, Niti Aayog to apprise the participants about the various projects and initiatives being taken by the Central Government for the development of the region.The two days' conference will have sessions wherein the State Governments and UTs from the region will also be making presentations on the status of the tourism sector in their states and latest initiatives being taken by them for development of tourism. During the sessions, discussion on Heritage & Cultural Tourism initiatives, Rail Tourism, Skill development, potentiality of Cruise Tourism in the Southern Region etc. will be held.The event is expected to be attended by the Ministers of State for Tourism, Govt. of India, Senior Officials from various Central Ministries, State Governments, Union Territory Administrations (UTs), Media and industry stakeholders."Ministry of Tourism promotes India as a holistic destination including southern region States & UTs on various platforms in Digital, Print and Social Media. Since April 2020, under Dekho Apna Desh campaign, the Ministry of Tourism is conducting webinars on various tourism products including dedicated webinars on States and UTs of Southern Region. The connectivity by air, rail and road to various destinations in the region is excellent and sought-after destinations by many," read the statement.It also stated that the ministry has concentrated on the issues of skill development in tourism sector, creating a pool of well trained and professional Tourist Facilitators is essential for providing world-class services to the tourists, promotion and marketing for creating awareness about the destination in the domestic and international markets.As domestic tourism is showing a great surge in the last few months and as the borders will be open for international tourists soon, building confidence and trust of the tourists is extremely important. In this connection, the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Tourism has already notified Covid-19 safety and hygiene protocols. The ministry has put in place a System for Assessment, Awareness and Training in Hospitality Industry (SAATHI) to ensure compliance with Covid-19 Safety and Hygiene guidelines and to ensure safety and health of employees/customers. SAATHI initiative aims to assist in the preparedness of Hotels to continue operations safely and also restore the confidence of guests and enhance the image of the hotel as a responsible hotel. As on date, more than 10,000 accommodation units have registered under SAATHI. The hotel units from States and UTs of the Southern region has shown a good response in registering their units on the portal to follow the necessary protocols."Ministry of Tourism undertakes development of infrastructure at tourist destinations across the country under its infrastructure development schemes viz. Swadesh Darshan (SD) and PRASHAD (National Mission on Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive). In Swadesh Darshan Scheme 76 projects have been sanctioned across India which also includes projects from the Southern Region States and UTs. Under Swadesh Darshan scheme projects have been sanctioned in different themes such as Coastal Circuit, Buddhist Circuit, Eco Circuit, Spiritual Circuit etc. Under PRASHAD Scheme, 37 projects have been sanctioned in India which also includes projects from the Southern States. These efforts are expected to culminate in a major fillip to the tourism sector in the region," the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-cm-union-minister-reddy-to-address-tourism-conference-today-in-bengaluru-101635392419219.html
28-10-2021||Patna||Bihar government all set to phase out single-use plastic, thermocol products||In a push to protect the environment, the Bihar government has started taking steps to phase out single-use plastic and thermocol products. The state government in June decided to put a blanket ban on single-use plastic and thermocol products from December 25, while the department of forests, environment and climate change has asked manufacturers, dealers and traders to clear their stocks comprising these materials before the deadline. At a meeting earlier this week, they were also asked to explore dealing in alternatives of single-use plastic and thermocol products. In June 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the country will eliminate single-use plastic in July 2022, and all states were asked to follow the target.Also Read: Teachers in UP see red over order to collect plastic wasteIn Bihar, where the ban will be enforced later this year, the products associated with single-use plastic and thermocol are disposable glasses, throwaway cutlery, and covers of packed foodstuff. “These [materials] have been in rampant use these days. You will find it everywhere. People have been using it for convenience, but it’s been highly harmful for the environment. It cannot be destroyed and the only way to get rid of it is to stop manufacturing it. That is why the government is putting a complete ban on these products,” said Deepak Kumar Singh, principal secretary of Bihar’s forest department. Violating the ban in Bihar will be treated as a punishable offence, the official said, attracting fines and/or jail time under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. “Those who have been handling these products, either manufacturing them or importing and selling them, need to be made aware of the ban,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-government-all-set-to-phase-out-single-use-plastic-thermocol-products-101635392504333.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality likely to deteriorate to ‘very poor’ on Thursday||Delhi sky is likely to be clear of clouds on Thursday but the air quality is expected to deteriorate to very poor, as per the forecasts by monitoring agencies.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) had said that the air quality will deteriorate during the day to touch “very poor” on Thursday and then hit the higher end of the “very poor” category by Friday.On the weather front, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 14 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 29 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 28.2 degree Celsius on Wednesday which was three degrees below normal and the minimum temperature was 14.6 degree Celsius – two notches below normal.IMD has forecast the minimum temperature in the national capital to remain around 14 degrees Celsius till Friday, and possibly dip to 13 degrees by Saturday. The maximum temperature, meanwhile, is expected to remain below 30 degrees Celsius till the end of the week.Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8am stood at 261. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 232, which is also in the “poor” category. AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Also Read: Delhi: In first for the season, temp below 15°C as AQI worsensOn Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, Safar, said, “Effective fire count of stubble burning in the northwest region of Delhi is 656 and its share in PM2.5 is 16% as transport level winds are north westerly. Calm local winds combined with highly favourable transport level winds (North-north westerly) enhance stubble burning related intrusion. Any increase in fire counts in the next 3 days would increaser finer particle levels of Delhi.”Particulate matter are extremely small and are graded by measuring their diameter in microns. The most important types of particulate matter are PM2.5 and PM10 (both microscopic in size) from a public health perspective. Prior to Wednesday, the highest contribution of stubble burning in Delhi’s air was 15% on October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-likely-to-deteriorate-to-very-poor-onthursday-101635391243679.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Petrol and diesel prices in Mumbai soar to all-time highs again||Fuel prices in Mumbai again soared to an all-time high on Thursday as petrol crossed the ₹114 mark while diesel ₹105 in the city. A litre of petrol was selling at ₹114.14 and that of diesel was priced at ₹105.12 in the city. Their prices increased by 34 and 37 paise respectively as fuel prices were hiked for the second day on Thursday.Transporters have claimed that the fuel hike has led to the unemployment among them.On Wednesday, a litre of petrol was priced ₹113.80 and diesel at ₹104.75 compared to ₹113.46 and ₹104.38 on Sunday.Fuel prices surged in Thane on Thursday as well. A litre of petrol was available at ₹114.27 while that of diesel at ₹105.25.In Delhi, a litre of petrol was selling at ₹108.29 while that of diesel was at ₹97.02.In Maharashtra, petrol was the costliest in Parbhani on Thursday and priced at ₹117 08 and a litre. Diesel was costliest at Amravati at ₹106.66.The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) had earlier this week increased its bus fares citing hike in fuel prices.Transporters have stated that inflation in the country has reached to high levels and the government is doing nothing to provide relief to the common citizens. They claimed that the rising prices are leading to unemployment among transporters.“The inflation in the country has reached abnormally high levels on account of continual hikes in diesel prices. The Central and state governments have been insensitive and have refrained themselves from providing any tangible relief to the common citizens and the transport fraternity of 20 crore. The situation is turning pathetic as diesel and petrol prices have crossed ₹100-mark in most of the cities in the country. The rising fuel prices have halted the vehicles of small-time operators leading to unemployment,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-and-diesel-prices-in-mumbai-soar-to-all-time-highs-again-101635390763736.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Drugs case: Kiran Gosavi, NCB's ‘key witness’, arrested in Pune||Kiran Gosavi, the NCB witness in the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case, was on Thursday arrested in Pune, moments after he was detained in connection with a 2018 cheating case, reported the ANI news agency, citing Amitabh Gupta, the police commissioner of Pune. Confirming the development, Gupta told the news agency, “A charge sheet was filed in the 2018 cheating case in 2019, but if we get more complaints against him, fresh offences will be registered.”Prabhakar Sail, a bodyguard of NCB witness Kiran Gosavi, had earlier alleged that Gosavi took ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the cruise ship. Gosavi however, has denied the allegations.Maharashtra | Kiran Gosavi (NCB witness in the drugs-on-cruise matter) has been detained: Amitabh Gupta, Pune Police Commissioner(File photo) pic.twitter.com/6AFxtn0UdqAccording to the agency, Gosavi was absconding in the cheating case, and in 2019, the Pune Police had declared him wanted. He was missing since then and was only spotted during the cruise raid case as an NCB witness. The police had issued a lookout circular against him on October 14, added the ANI report, citing police officials familiar with the matter.The Pune City police said on Thursday that there is no such demand yet from the Mumbai Police or any other agencies, including the NCB, to hand over Kiran Gosavi to them. Elaborating more on the matter, police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “Kiran Gosavi was using Sachin Patil as the alias name. I have not had any word with Narcotics Control Bureau so far, and nor is there any politics involved in this arrest.”Kiran Gosavi has been detained in connection with a 2018 cheating case in which he was absconding. In 2019, Pune City Police declared him wanted. He was missing since then & was only spotted during cruise raid as NCB witness. On 14 Oct, Police issued lookout circular against him. pic.twitter.com/vsZd4AqxuTBefore being detained, Gosavi was on Thursday quoted by the news agency as saying, “Prabhakar Sail is lying. All I want to request is that his CDR report be released; if my CDR report or chats can be released, Prabhakar Sail and his brother's CDR reports, as well as chats, should also be released. Only then will everything be clear.”Also Read | Drugs case: NCB to probe Prabhakar Sail today on allegations of corruptionGosavi further said, “At least one minister or any leader of the opposition from Maharashtra must stand with me.” He said that the politician(s) could “at least request the Mumbai police to release what I am demanding” [the aforementioned CDR and chats of Prabhakar Sail).“Once his reports come out, everything will clear,” Gosavi added.At least one minister or any leader of the opposition from Maharashtra must stand with me. At least they should request the Mumbai police what I am demanding(to release CDR & chats of Prabhakar Sail). Once his reports come out everything will clear: Kiran Gosavi, NCB witnessMeanwhile, the Mumbai Police recorded over the course of this week the statement of Prabhakar Sail, who is considered an “independent witness” in the NCB. His complaints alleging that NCB officers, including zonal director Sameer Wankhede, probing the drugs case are involved in extortion have been clubbed together with three other complaints filed by lawyers Sudha Dwivedi, Kanishka Jain, and Nitin Deshmukh. A new four-member inquiry team set up by the Mumbai Police, led by assistant commissioner of police Milind Khetle, will be looking into these complaints, officials familiar with the development told the PTI news agency.The NCB, too, is conducting its own inquiry into the alleged extortion complaints against its officers. A probe team, led by NCB deputy director-general (Northern Region) Gyaneshwar Singh, will investigate allegations of corruption levelled by Prabhakar Sail; the investigation started a day prior through an affidavit. An NCB team from Delhi is also set to question two officers of NCB Mumbai today, along with conducting additional questioning of Wankhede.Also Read | Cruise drugs case: Mere presence cannot prove role in conspiracy, says courtA day ago, Gyaneshwar Singh told reporters that the five-member inquiry team of NCB has started investigating the allegations levelled by Prabhakar Sail. “We requested the Southwest region office to get notice served to key witnesses KP Gosavi and Sail but they could not be contacted,” he had said. “Through media, I request them to join the investigation and give evidence before the special inquiry team which is camping at CRPF mess in Bandra, Mumbai.”However, the probe agency has made it clear that NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede will remain the investigating officer in the drugs-on-cruise case until substantial information is found against him. “If necessary, more evidence and documents will be sought from him,” a senior NCB official was quoted as saying. "He [Wankhede] will remain the investigating officer in the drugs-on-cruise ship case until substantial information is found against him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drugs-case-kiran-gosavi-ncb-s-key-witness-detained-in-pune-101635388546182.html
28-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: Mumbai Police forms 4-member probe team||The Mumbai Police have set up an inquiry team to look into the complaints of alleged extortion against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officers, including zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who are probing the drugs-on-cruise case.News agency PTI reported that the police have already deputed police officers for inquiry into as many as four separate extortion complaints. It cited a senior official familiar with the matter.Also Read | Probe team questions Sameer Wankhede in extortion claimsProviding more details on the inquiry team set up by the Mumbai Police, the senior official said that the team will be conducting its own inquiry into the four complaints, which were filed by an independent witness in the NCB case, Prabhakar Sail, and lawyers Sudha Dwivedi, Kanishka Jain, and Nitin Deshmukh. The Mumbai Police already recorded Sail's statements on Tuesday and Wednesday, but now all the complaints have been clubbed together.Assistant commissioner of police Milind Khetle, police inspector Ajay Sawant, assistant PI Shrikant Karkar, and sub-inspector Prakash Gawali will be part of the inquiry team, according to PTI. In this process, the team will receive additional assistance from Dilip Sawant, the additional commissioner of police (South Region) who will supervise the inquiry, as well as from DCP Hemrajsingh Bagul, who will assist Sawant as the supervisory officer.The order of inquiry was issued by Vishwas Nangre Patil, the joint commissioner of police (law and order).Meanwhile, the NCB said on Wednesday that zonal director Sameer Wankhede will remain the investigating officer in the drugs-on-cruise case until substantial information is found against him. However, an NCB probe team, led by its deputy director-general (Northern Region) Gyaneshwar Singh, will also probe allegations of corruption levelled by Prabhakar Sail; the investigation started a day prior through an affidavit.Also Read | Drug case: How focus shifted from Aryan Khan to NCB’s Sameer WankhedeSameer Wankhede himself was questioned for about four hours on Wednesday as part of the investigation and he put forward “many facts before the team”. An NCB team from Delhi is also set to question two officers of NCB Mumbai today, along with conducting additional questioning of Wankhede.“If necessary, more evidence and documents will be sought from him,” said Gyaneshwar Singh. “He submitted case-related documents that were sought. If needed, he will be questioned further. He will remain the investigating officer in the drugs-on-cruise ship case until substantial information is found against him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-case-mumbai-police-forms-4-member-probe-team-101635385714297.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Moved SC against Delhi govt's ration delivery: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that it has moved the Supreme Court against the state government’s doorstep ration of delivery policy — one that has led to a months-long battle between the Union and state governments.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh was informed by Monica Arora, the Union government standing counsel, that they moved the apex court against a September 27 order of the high court that paved the way for the scheme by allowing the Delhi government to cut supply to fair price shops (FPSs).In that order, the Delhi government the high court ordered the curtailing of the supplies to FPSs on account of those who have opted for the doorstep delivery of foodgrains. While noting that there was no stay on the implementation of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, the court also directed the Delhi government to issue communications to all FPS dealers, informing them of the particulars of cardholders who have opted to receive ration at their doorstep.On Wednesday, the Delhi government told the court that it has filed an application seeking a modification in the direction where the court directed that detailed information of the card-holders be disclosed to FPS dealers.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, said that people with vested interests were trying to scuttle the roll out of the scheme, and beneficiaries were being misled by false rumours and incorrect information through posters and pamphlets.Saying that 6.9 million people out of the total 7.2 million registered beneficiaries opted for the scheme, Singhvi apprehended that the data of those obtaining the doorstep delivery of ration would be misused.“…that the data sought by the petitioner association such as details of the head of the family, his/her Aadhaar number, mobile number, residence etc. is confidential in nature, and the disclosure thereof would be counterproductive to public interest… that the disclosure of such information by these persons / beneficiaries under the NFSA to the government has been made in a fiduciary capacity and it is incumbent on the government to protect their right to privacy,” it added.However, the court said that the information had to be given since the verification of the numbers cited by them was needed. It said that there should be some transparency and in any event such information can also be availed through Right to Information Act.“We are not asking you to part information about the Aadhaar card. Being the fair price owners they will have basic information as to who is the head of the family, ration card number, address, how many members in the family, allocation of food grains…Whatever is there is in the ration card,” justice Sanghi said.The court also said assuming that the petition by the ration dealers’ association is dismissed, it would still not solve the dispute between the Union government and Delhi in implementation of the scheme.To this, Singhvi said that the Delhi government does not have any problem in sharing the information with the court, but that such confidential details cannot be given to FPS dealers. He said if required, he will file the information to the court in a sealed cover.The court issued notice to the Centre and the ration dealers’ association. It also sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea by the association seeking other modifications in the September 27 court order.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme was launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament. The term “mukhyamantri” was later dropped from the scheme’s name.HT reported on October 19 that the Centre filed an application in the high court saying that the Delhi government may launch its scheme for the doorstep foodgrains delivery, but cannot take steps that mitigate the National Food Security Act (NFSA).The Delhi government has maintained that the scheme does not violate the NFSA, and that several states were already running similar programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moved-sc-against-delhi-govt-s-ration-delivery-centre-101635385521892.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||90%+ in Delhi have Covid antibodies: 6th sero study||More than 90% of Delhi’s population likely has some form of protection from Sars-Cov-2, the preliminary findings of the latest serological survey in the Capital suggest.Samples from 28,000 people were tested to see if they had antibodies to the virus, which causes Covid-19, and over 90% of them turned up positive, an official aware of the matter said, citing the study’s report submitted to the government.“A high sero-prevalence is good news, this means a good chunk of the population will be protected from the infection,” the official said, asking not to be named.It was not immediately clear how many of these people had antibodies as a result of an infection or vaccination. But the survey, a Delhi government health official told HT last week, covered these details.According to the first official quoted above, the preliminary report includes details such as district-wise, age-wise, and gender-wise sero-prevalence and a more detailed report is likely to be submitted around Diwali, which will be celebrated on November 4.The current round, the sixth such study in the Capital, was the first full sero study after the devastating April-May wave of infections. The last survey, for which samples were taken in April, showed an antibody prevalence rate of 56%.For the latest round, the sampling was done in September and the officials determined vaccination status as part of the process.A portion of the samples collected will also be analysed for level of antibodies, which could help researchers estimate how protected the population could be. These test results are awaited from the laboratory at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS).“This round of the survey was conducted in great detail, so it will take some time to analyse the data. A more detailed report is likely to be submitted in early November, around Diwali,” the second official quoted above said last week.These numbers could explain why Delhi’s cases have remained low despite the city having lifted most curbs on activities. The average weekly positivity rate of samples has remained under 0.10% since late July.Experts have previously warned against focussing on concepts of herd immunity and population immunity — the principle that says if enough of the public is protected, there will be a wall of protection from the virus.The Sars-Cov-2 virus has mutated on multiple occasions to make past protection redundant to some extent and become so transmissible that it raised the threshold for such protection.The previous five surveys returned readings of 56.13%, 25.5%, 25.1%, 29.1%, and 22.6% respectively.The current findings strengthen what was earlier found in a study from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that collected data at the peak of the second wave showed a seropositivity of 67% in Delhi.Further, a sero survey among staff members in the Council of Science and Industrial Research in Delhi showed a seroprevalence of 80% after the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/90-in-delhi-have-covid-antibodies-6th-sero-study-101635383387518.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||15 hurt near Singhu in police action against UP farm group||At least 15 people were injured on Wednesday after hundreds of members of the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti (HMKS), a farmers’ union from Uttar Pradesh, allegedly clashed with the Delhi Police after they were stopped from moving towards the Singhu border where hundreds of other farmers have been sitting on a year-long protest against the Centre’s three farm laws, senior police officers aware of the development said.The officers said the members of HMKS wanted to go to the Singhu border to protest against the killing of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farmer who was allegedly lynched on October 12 at Kundli near the border.Police said Singh’s family members were accompanying the protesters towards the Singhu border, where they had planned to protest against the protesting farmers, pay “Ardas” (a Sikh prayer) to Singh, perform a “hawan” and demand compensation from the government for the family.The protesters alleged that they were headed towards the border peacefully when the police personnel resorted to the lathi-charge.“We were a disciplined group of protesters from Meerut and Muzaffarnagar who were moving towards the border peacefully. Suddenly, the Delhi Police personnel launched a lathi-charge on us. At least a dozen protesters, including Lakhbir Singh’s wife and daughter, were injured. Many more of us also suffered bruises. We are now sitting at the border to demand justice,” said Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti spokesperson Manish Singh.The Delhi Police refuted the allegations of lathi-charge, and said that only “mild force” was used to disperse the protesters because they were creating a ruckus and trying to remove the barricades placed at the Singhu border. “The action was taken to prevent a law and order situation and a possible skirmish between the two opposite groups of protesting farmers,” a senior officer who asked not to be named said.Farmer leader and member of Samyukt Kishan Morcha, Darshan Pal, said, “We got to know that this group (HMKS) had come at the border with the deceased’s family member who wanted to conduct a havan at the protest site. This is another mischief by BJP-RSS as they want to disrupt the peaceful protests at Singhu border.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/15-hurt-near-singhu-in-police-action-against-up-farm-group-101635379976262.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The coconut man of Nehru Place||Such tall multi-storeys. Such a crowd of busy pedestrians. And he is sitting cross-legged on the ground, with his little basket in front of him. His statue-like stillness is accentuating the fast life around him. Like a hand immersed motionless in a stream that dynamically feels the shock and animation of the stream’s fast-flowing water.Ranjeet has been selling coconut slices in the commercial plaza of Nehru Place for more than 20 years. He seems frail and far too advanced in years for such demanding work. “I’m do kam assi,” he says, implying that he is two years short of 80.Many people on reaching this age exile themselves irreversibly into a deeply secluded existence—they stay at home and read the newspaper from first page to last, watch TV in the afternoon, and stalk their grandchildren on Facebook. “But I have to marry my two girls, I will have to continue working,” Ranjeet mutters, seemingly shocked at the idea of retirement. He fondly talks of his daughters. “Kavita is in 12th standard, Babli is in 11th.” He attributes the yawning age gap between himself and his children to his late marriage to Srimati Chandravati, “so the children are reaching a marriageable age just when I’ve become too old.” He contentedly informs that he has already married his eldest daughter, Poonam. The other two live in the village in Aligarh with their mother.Ranjeet believes that his daily earnings (about ₹300) as a vendor will help him save enough money to meet the expenses needed for his daughters’ weddings “in some years”. Looking about the Nehru Place office buildings, he says he keeps shifting his location throughout the plaza during the day. He gets fresh coconuts every morning from a vegetable mandi in Old Delhi, where he lives. He has no room of his own, he says, and sleeps at night in the mandi. He commutes daily from the Walled City on bus.As he continues to chat, Ranjeet reveals that he also has a son, who lives with his family in the home district but in a separate house.Rearranging the coconuts, the elderly gent talks of a young man who approached him one day recently with a camera. “He made a video of me and promised that it would change my life.”His life hasn’t changed, he observes.Some hours later, Ranjeet is spotted at a different site in Nehru Place. He has that same basket of coconuts but now it is accompanied with a basket containing peanut chikkis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-coconut-man-of-nehru-place-101635379387591.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||VIPs’ visit throws Ludhiana road traffic out of gear||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s cabinet meeting in Ludhiana put the city traffic out of gear on Wednesday. Those visiting the office and shops were hit worst as traffic diversions welcomed them on several routes connecting to Ferozepur Road. Massive traffic jams were witnessed at Bharat Nagar Chowk, Verka Milk Plant Malhar Road and Saggu Chowk at 9am, while commuters were left to find their way through the bottlenecks at Bhai Wala Chowk as no traffic cop was deployed to regulate the traffic. Pankaj Sharma, a resident of Barewal Road, said he was travelling towards the old city, but the traffic was diverted from Ferozepur Road. He said the police should have made a prior announcement about the change in route plan in the wake of the CM’s visit to the city. The diversion on the highway further compounded the problem and led to chaos on the internal streets of the city. Many of those stranded were sharing pictures on social media and narrating their plight. “I had to visit Sarabha Nagar in the morning, but learnt that due to chief minister’s visit, utter chaos prevailed on the Ferozepur Road and surrounding area. So I postponed my plan,” said Divya Jain. As the day progressed, the situation deteriorated further. Around 11am, the cops deployed for CM security were pressed into service as angry residents entered into an argument with policemen who were diverting the traffic near circuit house.Many passengers travelling in local and private buses decided to walk to reach their destination. “It is good that CM has visited the city as it shows that other cities other than Chandigarh also exist in Punjab, but at the same time the visit has exposed poor traffic management of the city police. They are aware of the traffic in the industrial town and the challenges it poses, but still they failed to effectively implement traffic diversions,” said Sarabjit Singh, a resident from Mullanpur, who was visiting the city.Gridlock on NH-44The motorists travelling on National Highway 44 connecting Ludhiana with Jalandhar found themselves in a gridlock after a truck ferrying grain developed a snag at the railway over bridge near Ladhowal on Wednesday morning. On Ladhowal Road, commuters took to social media to seek help from Ludhiana traffic police and national highway authorities for clearing traffic jams. A city resident, Varinder Rana, while sharing a picture of the traffic jam, sought help from police so that the passage could be cleared. Many commuters were diverted towards the Ladhowal bypass. However, situation returned to normal by the afternoon. Despite repeated attempts, comments of joint commissioner of police Deepak Pareek could not be elicited. Para powerlifter denied meeting with Punjab CMRamandeep Kaur, who bagged a gold medal in an international para-powerlifting championship in 2017, was stopped 100 metres away from the circuit house where Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was holding a meeting with his cabinet colleagues. Ramandeep was here to seek a job from the CM. She said she had been trying to get the job for several years, but all her efforts remained futile. “I have even lost my son in the process,” lamented the 33-year-old powerlifter, who carried with her medals won on national and international levels. She said that sportspersons were being “used as a propaganda tool by politicians”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vips-visit-throws-ludhiana-road-traffic-out-of-gear-101635375641290.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railways shell out ₹4.15 lakh as refund to passengers affected by farmers’ protests||The Railways incurred heavy revenue losses due to cancellation or delay in running trains amid last four protests led by farmers wherein rail traffic in the state was blocked. In these four agitations held in the past three months, a total amount of ₹4,15,520 was refunded to passengers, who got their tickets booked from the booking counters at the Ludhiana railway station. According to officials, more than 70% of the reservations are made online and thus, the Railways incurred major losses by issuing refunds there.“We physically refunded over ₹4 lakh at the Ludhiana railway station amid the recent farm protests, but the quantum of loss incurred by the Railways is huge as most of the refund was made online through Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) application. A very few people now book their tickets at the railway station counters,” said a senior official. As per the data, due to the rail traffic disruption amid farmers’ protest on August 20, refund of ₹1,73,110 was released at the ticket counters of Ludhiana railway station after six trains were cancelled and a few were delayed. While passengers were refunded ₹93,460 on September 27 with a total of 25 trains being cancelled in the wake of the Bharat Bandh call by farmers, ₹52,320 was given back to the passengers by Ludhiana railway authorities on October 4. Refund of ₹96,630 was issued to passengers at the Ludhiana railway station after 26 trains plying from or through here got delayed on October 18 due to a six-hour-long farmers’ agitation to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. According to officials, in normal situations, full refund to the passengers is issued in case the delay of a train is of more than three hours or if the train has been cancelled by the Railways itself due to track repair work or derailment. “In case of farmers’ protests where the trains get stuck, delayed for over three hours or cancelled; the fare for the travel portion is deducted and the rest is refunded. Suppose a passenger is travelling from Delhi to Amritsar and the train got stuck at Ambala due to protest by farmers, in such a situation the fare of his journey from Delhi to Ambala will be deducted and rest will be refunded,” added a senior railway official.In order to get their refund online, passengers have to submit a ticket deposit report at the Railways app.Another senior official said many rail commuters cancelled their tickets even the next day of the protest fearing harassment, causing further losses to the Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railways-shell-out-4-15-lakh-as-refund-to-passengers-affected-by-farmers-protests-101635375281273.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 22-year-old booked for abducting, raping teen||Ludhiana police have booked a 22-year-old man for allegedly abducting and raping a 17-year-old girl. The case has been registered following the complaint of the victim’s father, the police said on Wednesday. He said that accused Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Nishant Bagh colony, had abducted his daughter on October 24. According to investigating officer Janak Raj, search is on to rescue the girl and nab the accused. He said that Sandeep has been booked under Section 366-A of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act.In another case, the Division Number 6 police have booked a 25-year-old man for raping a three-year-old girl on October 23. The accused is Karan Kumar, a resident of Gill Road, who has been booked on the complaint of the victim’s mother. She told the police that when she returned home from work on October 23, she found her daughter sitting in a corner. She asked her why was she behaving differently, but the victim could not narrate anything. On this, she asked her son, who stated that Karan, who lives in a nearby migrant quarter, took the girl to his room where he assaulted her sexually. The woman immediately reported the matter to the police and lodged a complaint. The FIR has been registered under Section 376- B of the IPC and Section 6 of the POSCO Act. According to investigating officer Davinder Singh, a hunt is on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-22-year-old-booked-for-abducting-raping-teen-101635373960786.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypolls: BJP focussed on propaganda over development, says Congress||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, Congress co-incharge for Himachal Pradesh Sanjay Dutt said the ruling party had adopted an indifferent attitude towards the problems of inflation and unemployment in the state and had given precedence to propaganda. The Congress secretary said that there was anger building among the masses against the ruling dispensation in the hill-state and the BJP was certainly going lose all the four byelections.“Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has conceded defeat and is now making rhetorical statements against the Opposition,” alleged Dutt, alleging that the BJP was trying to influence the voters by misusing the government machinery and using money power. He said the BJP’s unwarrented statements against Congress nominee Pratibha Singh reflected the anti-women mindset of BJP leaders.He said that during the campaign, the BJP had deviated from the main issues of the people and tried to cover its failures. “Had the centre and state government carried out development, chief minister would not have been roaming streets seeking votes,” he said.Dutt said in the BJP regime the public is reeling under issues of soaring prices of essential commodities and petrol and diesel. “The subsidy cooking gas has been stopped. Similarly, the subsidies on the farming tools and pesticides have also been abolished. Education, health services have collapsed badly in the state. The condition of the roads is not good, and the employees and pensioners are upset,” he said. “In the BJP regime, propaganda never stops, and the only thing missing is development,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypolls-bjp-focussed-on-propaganda-over-development-says-congress-101635370960287.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram confident of sweeping victory in Himachal bypolls||With the bypolls being seen as a precursor to the assembly elections, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday predicted that the BJP will retain the prestigious Mandi Lok Sabha constituency, and also win the three assembly segments – Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai. Addressing an election rally at Karsog of Mandi district, Thakur said the grand old party had been decimated and only its name remained. Boasting of BJP candidate Brigadier Khushal Thakur’s military contributions, he said, “If we are able to sleep peacefully at our homes, it is only because of our soldiers guarding the border.” On the hot button issue of inflation, the chief minister said it was a global phenomenon that had been caused due to the pandemic. “People must understand that inflation is a global phenomenon due to Covid, and eventually the situation will ease out. During the Congress regime, there was no pandemic, and yet inflation was on all-time high.” He also took a dig at the alleged scams under the Congress regime. “I am confident that like 2014 and 2019, we will again win the Mandi seat with an even bigger margin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-confident-of-sweeping-victory-in-himachal-bypolls-101635370540704.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bypoll to be litmus test for Jai Ram’s popularity in Himachal||The stakes are high for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as the Mandi Lok Sabha and three assembly byelections on October 30 are being seen as a test of his popularity with Himachal Pradesh heading for elections next year.All eyes are on the Mandi parliamentary bypoll, where the BJP has fielded Kargil war veteran Brigadier Khushal Thakur against former member of Lok Sabha Pratibha Singh, who is also the widow of six-time Himachal chief minister Virbhadra Singh, as the constituency happens to be the home turf of the chief minister.The Mandi parliamentary constituency has 17 assembly segments spread across Mandi, Kullu, Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba. The Mandi Lok Sabha seat has been lying vacant since April this year, following the death of two-time MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.The result will be all the more significant as the chief minister was seen single-handedly leading the campaign to the byelections with Anurag Thakur, the Union minister for information and broadcasting, being the only leader from the Centre to campaign for the party candidate.Interestingly, this time, the narrative of the Himachal bypoll extend beyond the two primary political parties – the Congress and the BJP – as rebels from both parties have pitched their claims to the sought-after seats. While the elections will have no bearing on the stability of the government, they come at a time when the BJP has changed the guard in many states. Inflation: A hot-button issueWith issues such as inflation, rising prices of oil and unemployment at the centrestage, the election will be no cakewalk for the BJP as it faces anti-incumbency charges. The saffron party has tried to present the Mandi bypoll as a contest between a decorated war veteran and a dynast. However, people want the political parties to talk about real issues. In tribal Kinnaur, which has over 55,000 voters, the locals are seething over the damage to their ecology due to power projects. They see the multiple fatal landslides this year as a consequence of overexploitation of the area’s resources. In Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi, lack of development has been a constant poll plank. A triangular contest in FatehpurThe Fatehpur assembly segment in Kangra district, which fell vacant due to the death of incumbent legislator Sujan Singh Pathania, will set the tone for the 2022 assembly election. as political pundits say “the road to Shimla goes through Kangra.” Polls in the most populous district of the state, which sends 15 legislators to the state assembly, will be a referendum of the BJP’s policies. It is seen that the party which traditionally wins most seats from the district forms the government. This year, the constituency is facing a triangular contest, with Congress’ Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of the deceased incumbent legislator slugging it out against BJP’s Baldev Thakur and former MP Rajan Sushant who is contesting as an Independent. Sushant’s gains are sure to harm the BJP’s prospects. Applecart precarious placed in Jubbal-KotkhaiThe Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly, is also highly significant, as it falls smack in the state’s influential apple belt. However, here the BJP seems to have shot itself in the foot by denying a ticket to Chetan Bragta, the son of former Minister Narinder Bragta, whose death necessitated the byelection. The decision was taken to discourage dynastic politics. However, Bragta has rebelled and the entire block of BJP workers have rallied behind him. Fallen on hard times in the constituency, the BJP is struggling to find booth-level workers to manage the election. Experts say Congress’ Rohit Thakur and Chetan. The party’s handling of the farmers’ issues will be the determining factor with apple igrown in almost 16 constituencies – Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul Spiti, Mandi Sirmaur and Chamba districts. In Arki, the contest is between Congress Sanjay Awasthi and BJP’ Rattan Singh Pal. Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s death had necessitated the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bypoll-to-be-litmus-test-for-jai-ram-s-popularity-in-himachal-101635370000277.html
28-10-2021||Other||Block implementation of farm laws in Punjab, Sukhbir to CM||Rajpura Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked the Punjab government to use the state machinery, including the civil administration and police officials, to physically block the implementation of the Centre’s ‘black’ laws on agriculture. He also added that the same ploy should also be used to stop the Border Security Force (BSF) from usurping the constitutional authority of the Punjab Police. He declared that his party will move a resolution in Vidhan Sabha to ensure that the House directs the Punjab cabinet to take such a decision. “We want a directive from the House, not an ineffective resolution. We will seek a House directive also to categorically put the onus for implementation of its decision on CM Charanjit Singh Channi,” declared Sukbir, addressing media persons at Rajpura, where Charanjit Singh Brar is the party candidate for the assembly polls. He added that the manner in which former CM Capt Amarinder Singh justified the Central move to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF on Wednesday, proved that the Punjab congress had colluded with the Centre to make this move possible. “Such moves cannot take place in a matter of days. It is obvious that it was discussed earlier under Capt Amarinder Singh’s government. CM Channi was part of the cabinet and also privy to the move. He should not shed crocodile tears on this issue now,” Sukhbir added. Dismissing Channi’s ‘loud claims on investments in Punjab’, he challenged the CM to put on official website the detail of even a single crores or penny’s worthy of investment actually made in the state as a result of his investor’s summit. Interacting with owners of small industrial units, Sukhbir added, “The government would cut red-tape and smoothen the process to establish industry in the state.” The SAD president, accompanied by party candidate Charanjit Brar, paid obeisance at Lord Shiva’s temple in Nalas village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/block-implementation-of-farm-laws-in-punjab-sukhbir-to-cm-101635367479735.html
28-10-2021||Other||In Sangrur, only 34 households got 100-day employment under MGNREGA, claims AAP||Sangrur Even as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) promises to provide at least 100 days of wage employment in a financial year to every rural household, in Sangrur only 34 households are getting 100 days employment in the district. Even by a conservative estimate, there are thousands of households in the district. The fact came to light during a meeting of the district development coordination and monitoring committee headed by Sangrur Member Parliament Bhagwant Mann in the presence of deputy commissioner Ramvir and sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) on Wednesday. Committee chairman Mann said, “Officials informed me in the meeting that only 34 households are getting 100-day work under MGNREGA in Sangrur.”Sunam Aam Aadmi Party MLA Aman Arora alleged that hundreds of workers of his constituency were not paid despite their labour. “I have visited Kunran village of Sunam 10 days back. I collected 70 job cards from a particular area of the village. There is no entry in any job card of the work. When there is no entry, labour has no record that they worked. I have a list of 77 people who have not received payment for their work,” said Arora.“The government has declared all villages as Open Defecation-Free (ODF), but there are 117 households in three villages, Shahpur (42), Jharon (54) and Duggan (21), who are eligible for toilets but they have no toilets,” the MLA added. “MGNREGA is a very good scheme, but its condition is bad not only in Sangrur, but across the state. It is unfortunate that Sangrur is a big district, but sarpanches provide employment to their favourites. I have warned officials to give benefits to actual beneficiaries only,” Mann said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-sangrur-only-34-households-got-100-day-employment-under-mgnrega-claims-aap-101635367001281.html
28-10-2021||Bhopal||CM Chouhan’s meal video fuels Cong dart on ‘missing’ LPG cylinder. BJP responds||BHOPAL/SATNA: A video put out by Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Chouhan of a stopover at a Dalit household in the middle of his campaigning for the bye-elections in Raigaon, over 400km from state capital Bhopal, provoked barbs from his critics on and off social media. They spotted that there was no LPG cylinder around, and the chief minister’s host cooked his meal on a clay stove using traditional fuel. Where is the LPG cylinder given under the Ujjwala scheme, the opposition asked after chief minister Chouhan put out photographs and videos of his stopover, his outreach to the Dalit community ahead of bye-elections to four constituencies; one Lok Sabha seat and three Assembly segments.The Congress, which is in a straight contest with the BJP on the four seats, said the poor could not afford to use LPG cylinders received under the Ujjwala scheme because it was too expensive.LPG rates, last hiked on October 6, have gone up by ₹90 per 14.2-kg cylinder since July. A subsidised cylinder for poor households that got free connections under the Ujjwala scheme in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district’s Raigaon, where Chouhan stopped for a meal, costs ₹925.5.Congress lawmaker and former minister PC Sharma said: “The chief minister himself exposed that people stopped using gas stoves provided under Ujjawala Scheme due to rise in the price of LPG. The state government’s scheme is not meant for the poor. In Bhind, people are selling the cylinders to ragman.”The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, insisted that Chouhan’s host, Basanti Kol, didn’t use her LPG cylinder for Chouhan’s meal because traditional cuisines taste better when cooked on a clay stove.“Some traditional cuisines taste well when cooked on the earthen stove and that’s why Basanti Kol used it but it doesn’t mean, she doesn’t have an LPG. She has an LPG and used to cook daily food,” said Rajneesh Agrawal, BJP spokesperson.Also Read: Can govt’s targeted welfare override inflation concern?Agarwal added that it was similar to people going for a candlelight dinner. It doesn’t mean that there was a power cut, he said.To be sure, official data does indicate that active domestic LPG connections of state-run oil marketing companies have increased by 78% between April 2015 and April 2021. Domestic LPG consumption, however, went up by just 53.3% between 2014-15 and 2020-21, suggesting that Ujjwala beneficiaries might be using their LPG cylinders to complement rather than substitute their erstwhile methods of using unclean fuel for cooking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/cm-chouhan-s-meal-video-fuels-cong-dart-on-missing-lpg-cylinder-bjp-responds-101635366579715.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 38 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh Punjab on Wednesday reported 38 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,02,289, according to a medical bulletin. With no Covid-related fatality reported, the death toll stood at 16,556, it said. The positivity rate of the state was 0.11 % and actives cases were 246. Among the fresh Covid cases, Jalandhar reported eight, Ferozepur five and Amritsar four, the bulletin said. With 18 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,487, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-38-fresh-covid-cases-101635366459771.html
28-10-2021||Other||Rain delays paddy harvest in Punjab, pushes wheat sowing behind schedule||Chandigarh Last week’s unseasonal record rain (highest in 10 years) in October, coupled with intermittent showers till this time of the year, has led to late paddy harvest, raising alarm bells in the Punjab agriculture department over a probable delay in wheat sowing. Information that the field staff of the department has gathered shows that 50-55% of paddy harvest is yet to completed. This rabi season, wheat is expected to be sown over 86 lakh acre. “We are already in the middle of rabi (wheat) sowing season, and the optimal time for this would be over by November 15. Our department is watching the scenario, because if the wheat sowing extends beyond mid-November, it could affect the cropping pattern,” said SS Sidhu, director, agriculture department. Intermittent rain when the kharif crop was ready to be cut has added to the delay, with farmers worried over the moisture content. “In Mohali, Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts harvest is at an advanced stage and has been completed on about 70% area. In the rest of state, however, we are way behind harvest targets as compared to the corresponding period of the previous seasons,” said Harpreet Kaur, joint director, statistics, Punjab agriculture department. She added that wheat sowing had not picked up pace, despite the current spell of weather being ideal for it. A shorter window for wheat sowing after khairf harvest usually means that farmers are forced to resort to burning of crop residue to clear their fields quickly. Figures available with the state’s food and civil supplies department show that to date 89 lakh tonne paddy has arrived for procurement against the total expected arrival of 190 lakh tonne. “To date, 46% of total arrivals have reached mandis, we are expecting crop arrival to pick up next week. With so much rain around, paddy has not dried below the permissible limits of 17% moisture content,” said a state food and civil supplies department functionary. According to the research department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), the best sowing time for wheat is up to November 7, stretching up to November 15. “Our research benchmarks show that for the best possible yield, sowing should be completed by the first week of November. There is no chance for the sowing to be over within the given period,” said an officer with the agriculture department. A professor with the PAU research department added that after November 15, germination take longer and other crop dynamics also change impacting the yield. He added, however, that varieties such as PBW 752 and PBW 771 have shown good results. He added that the Indian Agriculture Research Institute’s (IARI’s) JHD 308 variety is sown over 40% of the total area cultivated under wheat. “Terminal heat stress is a major determinant of yield. Crop which is able to complete its growing time ahead of the days when rise in temperature begins in March-April, gives best yield,” said Navtej Singh of PAU research department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-delays-paddy-harvest-in-punjab-pushes-wheat-sowing-behind-schedule-101635366399721.html
28-10-2021||Other||Punjab Investors Summit gets good response, over ₹6,700 cr committed||Ludhiana On Day 2 of the Fourth Progressive Punjab Investors Summit, held at Kings Vila Resort in Ludhiana on Wednesday, industry groups committed ₹3,280 crore to the state. The highlight was ₹80 crore ($10 million) fresh foreign investment by a South Korean company, Sunjin India Feeds Pvt Limited to set up a feed mill plant for manufacturing animal feed at Rajpura, in Patiala district. UK-based NRI Meenu Malhotra also announced ₹1,600 crore investment in the development of Imperial Golf Estate in Ludhiana. The project, spread over 300 acre, will create approximately 2,000 well-paid jobs over a development period of approximately five years, Malhotra added. “This is in continuation to an earlier project filed with Invest Punjab with investment of ₹1,000 crore in 2020 to develop world class township in Hambran, Ludhiana,” he continued. Invest Punjab chief executive officer (CEO) Rajat Aggarwal said the response to the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit has been phenomenal. “All investments announced are concrete with land already allotted to the corporates. These are all sure-shot investments, bound to create plethora of employment opportunities besides boosting the state’s economy in a big way,” he said. Vardhman Textiles vice-chairman and joint managing director Suchita Oswal said the company is investing ₹600 crore towards expansion in a phased manner to increase productivity and generate employment, especially for women. AS Mittal of International Tractors Limited (Sonalika Tractors), in partnership with a Japanese firm Yanmar, announced a fresh investment of ₹1,000 crore towards setting up a plant in Hoshiarpur. “We are setting up another plant in Hoshiarpur, at some distance from the previous one. We will contribute 70%, with the Japanese partner to fund the rest,” he added. On Tuesday, HUL chairman and managing director Sanjiv Mehta had announced an investment of ₹1,200 crore and Amity University chancellor Dr Atul Chauhan announced an investment of ₹300 crore in next two years in higher education sector. Apart from this, Mahindra Group chairman Anand G Mahindra had also announced the setting up of its third tractor factory in the state shortly, besides setting up a hotel project near Pathankot. The Trident Group also promised investment of ₹2,000 crore over the next one-and-a-half years, creating employment opportunities for 10,000 people. Several other industrialists, including JK Paper Ltd vice-chairman and MD Harsh Pati Singhania; Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd founder and MD Dilip Shanghvi; Invest India MD and CEO Deepak Bagla; Yanmar India MD Kazunori Ajiki, Hinduja Group chairman-Europe Prakash P Hinduja; additional secretary, DPIIT, Sumita Dawra; ITC chairman and MD Sanjiv Puri; Japanese Ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and Arcelor Mittal executive chairman Lakshmi N Mittal, also shared their experiences and inputs about their partnerships in industrial ventures across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-investors-summit-gets-good-response-over-rs-6-700-cr-committed-101635366099675.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Espionage network busted, man held for spying for ISI in Punjab||Four days after an armyman was held for allegedly passing highly sensitive and classified information about the army to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Punjab Police State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), Amritsar, on Wednesday arrested another man for spying. Mandeep Singh, 35, of Sirsa in Haryana, who is working at a stone crusher in Pathankot situated near the cantonment area, was passing sensitive information to his Pak-based handlers. In lieu of the information, he was paid money, said a police spokesperson.“During the preliminary investigation, it has come to light that the accused came in touch with Pakistan intelligence officer, Neha Singh through Facebook a year ago, who posed as an IT professional working in a Bengaluru-based IT unit of the Indian Army. After connecting through Facebook and Messenger, they shifted to WhatsApp and other private messaging and calling apps. The accused was in touch with the woman on a UK phone number and two Indian numbers, the spokesperson said. “The accused was lured by the woman into espionage activities and he was tasked to gather and share information about Pathankot, Amritsar cantonments and Pathankot airbase,” the spokesperson said. The accused ended up sharing some classified documents and photographs of the Cantt areas via encrypted apps. During preliminary inspection of his mobile phone, many classified documents and photographs were found, the spokesperson added. A case under Sections 3, 4, 5, 9 of the Official Secrets Act, 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the SSOC, Amritsar, police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/espionage-network-busted-man-held-for-spying-for-isi-in-punjab-101635365800493.html
28-10-2021||Other||Moga police to cancel illegal mining cases against firm found selling sand||Moga Over a month after registering two back-to-back cases against M/S and Rana Company, a firm allowed legal mining, for allegedly carrying out illegal mining in the Sutlej riverbed, Moga police have taken a U-turn and given clean chit to the firm. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surinderjit Singh Mand has approved cancellation reports in both the cases. The development comes two weeks after the transfer of former Moga SSP, Dhruman H Nimbale, an IPS officer. During his 54-day tenure, 15 cases of illegal mining were registered; since his transfer, only one case of illegal mining has been registered. Previously, the Moga SSP had issued show-cause notices to Dharamkot DSP, Shubeg Singh and mining officer Jalandhar, Gurtej Singh Garcha, for alleged inaction against illegal mining after the registration of these cases. The district police has also recommended the suspension of Dharamkot DSP for his alleged nexus with the mining mafia. “The recommendation of his suspension is pending with the home department. Now, with the clean chit to the firm, the Dharmakot DSP is also likely to get relief,” said an official of Moga police. THE CASE AGAINST THE FIRMOn September 19, Moga police had arrested eight men for allegedly selling stored sand from the firm’s dump set up at Sherpur Taiba village. The police had also seized eight vehicles, including five tractor-trailers and tippers loaded with sand and three earthmoving machines. On September 26, the police registered a case of theft and illegal mining against M/S and Rana Company, an official mining contractor, for selling its stored sand, without following the legal procedure. As per the FIRs, the state government has allotted a mining quarry of Pipli village in Jalandhar to the firm. Due to monsoon, the company had stored its sand at Sherpur Taiba village, located in Moga, with the permission of the mining department. The Moga police had claimed that the owner and workers of the firm were allegedly selling sand without weighing, without issuing computerised slips and without clicking the pictures of vehicles. Moga SSP Surinderjit Singh Mand, “I have approved the cancellation report of both FIRs. The decision was taken after we did not find any anomalies in the way the firm was operating. Earlier, the firm had not produced slips that are mandatory for transportation of sand. Now, they have produced these slips before us. Therefore, we have initiated the process for cancelling FIRs. This cancellation report will be submitted in a local court.” Sources said that after registration of FIRs, the firm had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court. On October 1, the court had disposed of the case by directing the chief secretary to consider the representation and to pass necessary order in accordance with the law. The chief secretary, then, marked an inquiry to Moga deputy commissioner Harish Nayar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-police-to-cancel-illegal-mining-cases-against-firm-found-selling-sand-101635365679625.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||OSD appointed without advertising post, Punjab admits in HC||IPS Malhotra, officer on special duty (OSD) to the director general school education (DGSE), Punjab, was appointed without advertising the post in 2017, the state government has admitted before the high court. The affidavit by DGSE further reveals that though the initial salary approved was ₹30,000 per month, Malhotra is withdrawing ₹53,000 from the funds meant for the Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab. He has also been provided an official car. Even as his appointment is not against a cadre post, Malhotra was also entrusted with 60 inquiries against various employees of the department. These details have been submitted following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s directions on the plea of a school principal, Himachali Devi. The petitioner had approached the HC in June 2021 while seeking transfer from Ferozepur to Mohali on the verge of her retirement. During the hearing, it had come to light that two departmental probes were pending against her and were being probed by Malhotra. The court had passed the order seeking details about the OSD’s appointment on July 22, but in the next two hearings, the department had sought time to comply with the directions. The affidavit in question was finally filed for the hearing on October 13. The affidavit filed by DGSE Isha Kalia stated that the petitioner was transferred to a Ropar school in July 2021. Also, the two inquiries instituted against the petitioner earlier in the year and being headed by Malhotra were transferred to another official on July 29. Both these developments took place after the court sought details about Malhotra’s appointment. ‘In view of DGSE’s workload’Malhotra’s appointment was made for one year on August 14, 2017, with an order of the then DGSE, but the approval of the executive committee, Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan, was obtained post facto during a meeting on April 12, 2018. He was appointed with the approval of the competent authority and the approval was obtained from the then education minister, the affidavit stated.The affidavit said that the OSD was appointed on contractual basis keeping in view the DGSE’s workload, although it does not mention when the proposal was made and admits that the post was not advertised.  “It is submitted that the post of OSD was although not advertised as it was not regular sanctioned budgeted post, the decision was taken after the approval of the competent authority,” the department reasoned, adding that Malhotra himself submitted the resume and was considered owing to his qualification as an MBA with a vast experience as the general manager of Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited. Heading various probes against employees On April 18, 2018, Malhotra was also posted as the assistant project director of the Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab and his salary was fixed at ₹50,000 per month, to be drawn from the society’s funds. He was also given the facility of a vehicle. Later, he got a raise of ₹ 3,000 in June 2019, according to the affidavit. The record submitted in the HC reveals that Malhotra was entrusted with probes against department employees from Class-3 posts to teachers and principals and even district education officers besides many other high-ranking officials. While 24 probes are pending, inquiry reports have been submitted in 37 cases. The department has claimed that Malhotra is not being paid anything for conducting the probes, but any other official appointed for the purpose is given ₹10,000-15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/osd-appointed-without-advertising-post-punjab-admits-in-hc-101635365627572.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Veggie thief flees with onions, tomatoes in Chandigarh, held||Amid soaring vegetable prices, a 22-year-old man stole 150-kg onions, 50-kg tomatoes and 22 bags of coconuts from a shed at the wholesale market in Sector 26, Chandigarh.Identified as Shiv Lal, alias Huddi, of New Indira Colony, Manimajra, he has been arrested. Police said that earlier too, the accused and his accomplices used to steal vegetables and sell them at throwaway prices. Narender Singh, a Mohali resident who sells vegetables at the wholesale market, told police that he along with three others stores the stock at a shed. On Tuesday, he found that 150-kg onions, 50-kg tomatoes, 22 bags of coconuts and ₹1,200 cash along with important documents were missing from the shed. Police traced and arrested the accused after registering a case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code. Amid rising fuel prices and unexpected rains in the region, vegetables are getting dearer in Chandigarh.Onion prices, which had remained on the lower side earlier this year, have gone up by 30% this month. Priced at ₹35 per kilogram on October 1, the staple veggie is now available for ₹45 at apni mandis.Tomato prices also continue to remain high, though there has been a dip from the peak of ₹80 per kg seen earlier this month. Now, the rate is down to ₹60, but it is still 33% dearer than ₹45 at the beginning of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/veggie-thief-flees-with-onions-tomatoes-in-chandigarh-held-101635365626372.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak: Three more die in Mohali; Panchkula logs first death||Three more patients died of dengue in Mohali on Wednesday, taking this year’s death toll to 29. Meanwhile, Panchkula recorded first death due to the mosquito-borne viral disease this season. Chandigarh has reported three deaths so far.In Mohali, it is the highest death toll due to dengue in at least a decade. In 2018, eight people had succumbed to the disease, while a fatality each was confirmed in the following two years. The past three days have seen seven deaths while the month’s toll in the district has climbed to 27. The remaining two deaths this year were reported in September.The latest victims have been identified as a 23-year-old man from Karala village, a 68-year-old woman from Dashmesh Colony in Zirakpur and a 42-year-old man from Kheri Jattan village in Dera Bassi. They all were undergoing treatment at different hospitals.Also, 55 new cases were reported from the district, taking this year’s tally to 2,276, nearly a fivefold rise from 471 cases detected in 2020. Dengue cases start rising every monsoon and peak between September and November. The figures had remained on the lower side in the past two years.Chandigarh reported 41 new cases, taking the year’s total to 737. In Panchkula, 28 cases surfaced and took the tally to 519.Deputy CM takes stock at civil hospitalPunjab deputy chief minister OP Soni, who also holds the charge of health minister, on Wednesday visited the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, to assess the ground situation. He visited the dengue ward and interacted with the patients to enquire about the arrangements and medicine availability. Soni said a special 80-bed ward has been set up on the third floor of the hospital for both confirmed and suspected dengue patients, where they are getting free treatment. In addition, the number of beds with mosquito nets has been increased. In view of the increasing number of patients in the emergency ward, he directed the hospital authorities to deploy more doctors and nurses and make proper sanitation arrangements. Soni said that any shortcoming in this regard will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against the official concerned. The deputy chief minister also visited the medicine stock room and enquired about the available stock. He also appealed to the people to take all necessary precautions to prevent dengue fever and not allow standing water anywhere in and around their homes. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and other officers were also present.Health dept flags fogging delaysMeanwhile, the health authorities have been surveying various areas that are reporting dengue fever. On Wednesday, district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra along with his team visited the high-risk colonies at Zirakpur and villages in Dera Bassi. “We found that there were several colonies in Dhakoli area where stagnant water had collected in vacant plots. Civic bodies of both Zirakpur and Dera Bassi are not doing proper fogging. People are complaining that no one is turning up for fogging,” said Dr Nagra.Denying the allegation, Girish Verma, executive officer, MC, Zirakpur, said: “We have a proper schedule for fogging and we are doing it weekly. We have four machines working daily and one machine in reserve. Our employees are doing their duty honestly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-three-more-die-in-mohali-panchkula-logs-first-death-101635365625028.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Edu City: Chandigarh admn to examine why project failed||With an aim to make Chandigarh a regional education hub, UT adviser Dharam Pal on Wednesday directed the officials concerned to examine the reasons for the failure of the ambitious Edu City plans.The adviser was holding a high-level meeting of UT officials on expanding educational infrastructure in the city“The project idea was floated in 2005 in Sarangpur. But currently only one firm is operational. Other companies didn’t pursue their projects at the site. In a bid to revive the projects, we need to know what exactly went wrong. I have directed the officials to submit a report on the issue. Thereafter, we will take up how to proceed further,” said Pal after the meeting.The project was planned to come up on 150 acres, with 75 acres reserved for private institutes. In 2009, three institutes signed a memorandum of understanding to get licence for setting up campuses there, but a long list of those shortlisted had backed out. It was primarily due to the tough conditions laid down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/edu-city-chandigarh-admn-to-examine-why-project-failed-101635365623779.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Drunk man scales airforce station wall, arrested||A 22-year-old pizza delivery man was arrested after he trespassed into the prohibited area of 12-Wing Air Force Station in an inebriated condition, Chandigarh Police said on Wednesday. Identified as Mohit Kumar, the accused is a migrant from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh and works at a pizza joint in Sector 26. The police said that the accused had in inebriated state when he was arrested. According to police, Kumar had consumed liquor with a relative and then boarded an auto-rickshaw that dropped him near the airforce station on Tuesday. He then scaled the security wall near the old airport area and jumped inside the technical area of the station, which is a prohibited area. Kumar was apprehended by a guard on duty and handed over to police. A case under Sections 448 (house-trespass) and 451 (house-trespass in order to commit any offence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the police station in Sector 31 on the complaint of Group Captain JJ Singh, who is the station security officer. Earlier, on September 30, a Manimajra resident suspected to be under the influence of liquor was arrested for forcibly trying to enter the 3BRD airforce station in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdrunk-man-scales-airforce-station-wall-arrested-101635365622541.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Kuljeet Randhawa is AAP candidate from Dera Bassi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has declared Kuljeet Singh Randhawa, 60, as its candidate from the Dera Bassi constituency for the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections scheduled early next year. Meanwhile, former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh is reported to be the front-runner for the party’s ticket from Mohali constituency.Randhawa, who remained in the Congress for nearly three decades, joined the AAP two years back. He has also remained the president of the truck union in Dera Bassi for 13 years and Zila Parishad chairman under the Congress. He is also the president of Panchayat Parishad in Punjab.In the municipal elections held in February this year, Randhawa was the AAP in-charge though none of the 18 candidates could win a seat.“I served the Congress party for nearly 30 years, but they did not recognise my contribution. The AAP in two years gave me the due respect. People are fed up with the Congress, BJP, and SAD, and we are hopeful of winning the seat from Dera Bassi,” said Randhawa.Former mayor front-runner in MohaliFormer mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh, who had announced to contest the Vidhan Sabha elections, is reported to be the front-runner for the AAP ticket from Mohali.According to the party insiders, there are two more names being considered: Dr Sunny Ahulwalia, who is AAP Lok Sabha in-charge of Sri Anandpur Sahib, and Punjabi artist Sonia Mann. However, Kulwant Singh is the front-runner and the name will be announced after Diwali, said sources.Last month, when AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal came to Mohali, Kulwant Singh was seen with him at the Chandigarh International Airport.“I have decided to contest the Vidhan Sabha elections from Mohali; I will soon let you know from which party,” said the former mayor.In January this year, Kulwant Singh formed the Azad Group before the MC elections in Mohali after parting ways with the SAD. Though he himself lost the election, his group won 11 seats out of the total 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-kuljeet-randhawa-is-aap-candidate-from-dera-bassi-101635365620824.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD, BSP join hands for Chandigarh MC elections||After forging an alliance for the Punjab assembly elections, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Wednesday decided to join forces for the Chandigarh municipal elections as well. The elections are scheduled for December. Of the total 35 seats in the MC House, SAD will contest on 19 and BSP will put up its candidates in the remaining 16 wards. Chandigarh SAD president Hardeep Singh and BSP’s local unit chief Gurcharan Singh Kamboj made the announcement during a press conference on Wednesday.SAD will contest from Wards 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 30, 32, 33 and 34. BSP will contest from Wards 3, 4, 7, 9, 12, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 28, 29, 31, 35. In the last MC elections held in 2016, the SAD had fought along with its previous ally BJP. At that time, the MC had 26 wards. The BJP contested on 22 seats and won 20 of these. SAD fought on four and could win only one. BSP had lost on all the 18 seats it had contested from.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-bsp-join-hands-for-chandigarh-mc-elections-101635365619594.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cartography conference commences at PU||A three-day international conference on the theme of Cartography for Self Reliant India commenced at the department of geography, Panjab University, on Wednesday. It is being organised by the Indian National Cartographic Association.Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya, who was the chief guest, said that geo-spatial field has tremendous potential for generating employment in the country. He also mentioned that in managing the pandemic, Covid maps proved beneficial. The governor further said the application of Geographic Information Sciences (GIS) has become a crucial part of how NASA gets to know the feature of other worlds, develops broader understanding of geophysics and gathers valuable information about our own planet.Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor, PU, emphasised on the need to come up with an action plan to make cartography multi-disciplinary so that its knowledge can be shared with other domains.The Surveyor General of India, Naveen Tomar, in his keynote address, focused on the requirement of data collection on a large scale to make India a self-reliant nation. Also, he stressed upon the need of fresh blood to be injected into the system and also talked about public-private partnership in this regard.Lecture series on forensic scienceA lecture series was held at the Institute of Forensic Science and Criminology in Panjab University on Wednesday. Michael Nirenberg while delivering a special lecture said that the walking pattern evidence may help in the conviction of criminals.Nirenberg, president of the American Society of Forensic Podiatry, USA, is involved in the analysis of foot, footwear and forensic gait analyses. He assists the FBI and other law enforcement agencies and provides expert witness in courts.The gait evidence provided by him helped convict criminals in cases of murders and burglary. Nirenberg demonstrated the real time forensic cases wherein forensic analysis was conducted on the basis of footwear, footprint and videos of gait of the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cartography-conference-commences-at-pu-101635365563454.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 600 teachers to vote in PUTA elections||Polling to elect the new executive team of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) will be held on Thursday. The results will be declared the same day.Around 600 varsity teachers are eligible to vote. The polling will take place at the Law Auditorium between 8:30 am and 2:00 pm.The teachers’ body is seeing a two-cornered contest between the incumbent group led by Mritunjay Kumar and Manu Sharma’s team. Both have promised to focus on the implementation of the seventh pay commission and promotion policy for teachers of the dental institute.The other key agendas of the Mritunjay-Naura group include the grant of central university status to PU and pension for all. The group has also promised that it will make efforts to ensure that teachers receive all retirement benefits immediately upon their superannuation .The Manu Sharma-Kashmir Singh group is also vouching for CAS promotions for teachers of dental institute and clearance of cases of counting of past service. They have promised to work on the flexibility in the use of improvement of education funds and central funding for PU.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYTwo men held for burglary at Sector 39 houseTwo men were arrested on Wednesday for stealing ₹40,000 and gold ornaments from a house in Sector 39, Chandigarh, on August 27. The accused have been identified as Shakib, 19, a resident of Sector 45, Chandigarh, and Ali Mohammed, 30, hailing from Uttar Pradesh. They were arrested based on the complaint of Suresh Nagarkoti, a resident of Sector 39. He stated that his mother had left for work at about 8.30am and when she returned at 5.45pm, she found that the house had been broken into and the cash and jewellery had been stolen. Mohali health dept inspects sweet shops The food safety team of the health department on Wednesday conducted inspections at various prominent sweets shops in Sector 70, Phase 5, Sohana and Mataur and seized four samples of edibles. District health officer Dr Subash Kumar said that they checked the quality and durability of the sweets and milk. He added that 10-kg stale “pinnis’ were destroyed on the spot at a sweet shop in Mataur. The shopkeepers were directed to maintain hygienic conditions during the manufacturing process and display the expiry date on various sweets. Officials added that necessary steps are being taken to curb adulteration of sweets during the festive season in Mohali district with random and surprise checking all over the district.MC polls: Youth Cong workers being trainedChandigarh Pradesh Congress Committee president Subhash Chawla inaugurated ”Yuva Kranti”, the two-day Chandigarh Youth Congress state level leadership development workshop, at a hotel here on Wednesday. During the workshop, the city’s youth cadre will be geared up for the upcoming MC polls. Around 70 state office bearers, including training coordinators, are taking part. National in-charge of the Indian Youth Congress, Krishna Allavaru, also attended the workshop. Addressing the workshop, he said, “The Chandigarh Youth Congress is going to play a pivotal role. We will ensure the victory of the party and necessary effort will be put by all our activists. The BJP has played and cheated with the people of Chandigarh. Through door-to-door campaigns, we will reach out to the last man and make sure people elect responsible cooperation in the form of Congress government.”Guv launches documentary on music composer NarulaPunjab governor Banwarilal Purohit on Wednesday launched an archival documentary to commemorate the life and work of music composer Kesar Singh Narula and his daughter and singer Jaspinder Narula.The documentary in the form of a compact disc has been created by the Sapta Sindu Forum. Purohit said KS Narula’s death last year was a blow to the Punjabi music fraternity. “When it comes to early Punjabi music in the 1950s and the era of HMV records, then only one music director’s name stands out,” he said. “Narula Saab was a devout Gurbani singer from his childhood. And I appreciate the contribution of his versatile, talented daughter, Jaspinder Narula, who herself is a great artist, for doing such a good job to keep the memory and legacy of her father alive,” said the governor.Teachers seek implementation of Sixth Pay ScaleThe UT Cadre Educational Employees Union met with the recently appointed director of school education, Palika Arora, on Wednesday and discussed various pending issues with her and including implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission for teachers. As per president Swarn Singh Kamboj, other issues included the release of pending salaries of six computer instructors who are facing issues with their contractor hired through the Government e-Marketplace (GEM). Due to issues with their eligibility, many NTT teachers who were recently selected, have also not been appointed which Singh asked to be resolved. The members also asked for more transparency in the transfer policy. Arora said she will look into the demands.District-level suvidha camp in Mohali on October 29 The Mohali administration will organise a suvidha camp at the district level on October 29 and at sub-division levels on October 28 to facilitate enrolment into government schemes. Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia on Wednesday directed all officials to hold suvidha camps across the district to ensure that people at the grass-roots level benefit from government schemes including five-marla plots for landless citizens, pension schemes and MGNREGA job cards. She said it is an opportunity for people to benefit from several schemes under one roof without visiting different offices. She added that the camps will be a boon for the underprivileged sections as they can avail of several benefits at their doorsteps.Rajnath Singh in Panchkula todayDefence minister Rajnath Singh will be in Panchkula on Thursday. Singh will inaugurate some technical facilities at the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Singh will be at the facility from 11.30 am onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh600-teachers-to-vote-in-puta-elections-101635365562260.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali boom: Festive spirit is back, sales up in Chandigarh markets||Hit by the pandemic in 2020, traders in Chandigarh are reporting an uptick in sales ahead of Diwali this year. Although the footfall hasn’t reached the pre-pandemic levels, the business has improved across markets as Covid-19 cases remain on the lower side.Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charanjiv Singh said: “Most markets are reporting good footfall and festive stalls are also a hit. Shopkeepers strictly follow Covid-19 protocol and that is helping customers to feel safe and venture out during the festival season.” Singh, who has a shop in Sector 22, added that people have started shopping for gifts, and gifts including crockery, leather and blankets, have done well this year.In Sector 17, too, people are venturing out especially on weekends, according to president of Business Promotion Council Neeraj Bajaj. “Shopkeepers haven’t arranged for any special melas or functions and we are just decorating the market but people are visiting us for their festival shopping just like the old days,” he said. Other major markets in the city are also reporting good sales in the build up to Diwali. While it was earlier suspected that the Afghanistan crisis will weaken the supply of dry fruits in the city, wholesalers have assured that there is enough for everyone. Ram Karan Gupta, president of the Sector 26 Grain Market Association, who also sells dry fruit on wholesale, said: “We get most of our dry fruit from India and even items like figs which are not grown in India are also available in good supply; so people need not worry.” Gupta, however, added that over the years gifting dry fruits in the festival season is going out of fashion as people have switched to more modern gifts.Business has also started picking up at shopping malls. As per officials of Nexus Malls that operates Elante Mall, sales in the festival season are at over 90% of what they were in 2019. “While footfall is still a bit less than pre-pandemic levels, sales are increasing. The shopping habits of the customers have changed and instead of spending more time browsing products they are making more purchases,” said senior VP, operations and projects, Jayen Naik. Officials added that switching to contactless orders and encouraging the food ventures to start home deliveries had also benefited them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diwali-boom-festive-spirit-is-back-sales-up-in-chandigarh-markets-101635365561018.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali: Kurali cracker wholesalers stare at another season of losses||With the Punjab government allowing only a two-hour window for bursting firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurb and Chandigarh imposing a blanket ban, wholesalers at the region’s biggest cracker market in Kurali are staring at another season of poor sales. The fear of Covid-19 and ongoing farmers protests are also likely to hit their business, though there might be some improvement from last year. While the sales had dipped by 50% during the festive season in 2020, the traders expect to do at least 60% sales as compared to the pre-pandemic times.The wholesalers in Kurali supply crackers to Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, and various parts of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. They do a business of nearly ₹7 crore every year.Manik Bathla, a fireworks wholesaler who has been in the business for the last two decades, said: “With just one week left for Diwali, the locals are not coming to buy crackers. We have only buyers from Himachal Pardesh. Even, most of the farmers will not be celebrating Diwali this year due to the protests. People are also scared of Covid-19.”Bathla said that earlier people used to come one month before Diwali to buy crackers but this year the market is wearing a deserted look.Another wholesaler, Pankaj Garg, said that this is the second year when the traders will be facing losses. “The Chandigarh administration’s decision to ban bursting of crackers has also hit our business,” he said. Sundar Lal Manju, president of Kurali Firecracker Dealers’ Association, said there was a slump in the market as retailers were yet to place their orders. “This year small-time businessmen were scared of investing money in this business,” he said.Meanwhile, deputy superintendent of police Bikramjit Singh Brar held a meeting with the wholesalers and directed them to follow all safety norms. The state government has allowed bursting of only green crackers from 8pm to 10pm on Diwali. Green crackers are environment-friendly as they have low noise, no flame, no harmful pollution-causing chemicals, but emit a lot of light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diwali-kurali-cracker-wholesalers-stare-at-another-season-of-losses-101635365559598.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||CM Channi announces to scrap 40,000 VAT cases against Punjab traders||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday announced to scrap 40,000 of the pending 48,000 VAT cases related to financial year 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17 against traders and industrialists across the state.Addressing industrialists, traders and prospective entrepreneurs on the second day of 4th Progressive Punjab Investors Summit on the theme of ‘A story of Partnership, Delivery & Growth: Investors Reassured’ in Ludhiana, the CM said 8,000 remaining cases will be settled amicably by asking the traders/ industrialists concerned to deposit only 30% of the total outstanding tax liability, thus saving them from a lot of inconvenience caused to them on this count. Another long-pending demand of the industry to abolish institutional tax, which has been implemented since 2011, was also catered to by the CM.Assuring of best air connectivity to boost economic activity in the region, the CM announced to lay the foundation stone of the upcoming green field airport at Halwara (Ludhiana) on November 15 and said that prestigious airport will be completed within of eight months.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the state government has allowed faceless assessment of GST and VAT due to which the traders and industrialists need not to present themselves physically before the taxation officers anymore.Channi further said that mobile squad earlier comprising of 14 persons has also been reduced to only four in the taxation department in an effort to put an end to “inspector raj”.He also announced a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for the defaulters to be introduced in Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC), Punjab Financial Corporation (PFC) and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC).Likewise, the CM also said an amnesty scheme will also be introduced for the plot holders of the Punjab State Industries Export Corporation (PSIEC).The CM added that fixed charges on electricity connections for medium-scale industries have been slashed to 50%. He said ₹150 crore will be spent on the upgrade of the infrastructure in the industrial focal points.The state government will soon simplify the procedure for change of land use to facilitate the entrepreneurs and industrials for setting up their ventures seamlessly, Channi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-channi-announces-to-scrap-40-000-vat-cases-against-punjab-industrialists-traders-101635365439441.html
28-10-2021||Other||Punjab issues guidelines for ₹50,000 ex gratia to heirs of Covid-19 victims||Chandigarh The Punjab government has issued guidelines for the release of ex gratia relief to heirs of those who died due to Covid-19. Punjab deputy chief minister Om Prakash Soni said that as per the directions of the Supreme Court the state government would provide ₹50,000 to the heirs. He clarified that the heirs of the victims who have the certificate of cause of death from the hospital would submit applications directly to additional deputy commissioner (G) of the district in which the Covid patient died. Similarly, the heirs of the victims of Covid-19 who do not have the death certificate, specifying the cause of death, would submit the applications to the same committee constituted by the state government under the chairmanship of additional deputy commissioner (G) of that district where Covid patient died. The notification regarding the formation of these committees has been issued, as per which additional deputy commissioner (G) has been appointed as the chairperson, the civil surgeon as member secretary and assistant civil surgeon as Member Convener. Similarly, if there is any Government Medical College in the district, its principal/medical superintendent and the head of the medicine department has been included as a member and the in-charge Epidemiologist of Covid-19 Cell of the district has also been included as a member. The committee will meet within 30 days of receiving the application and will be bound to take further action. He also said that if any heir of the deceased does not agree with the reason of death mentioned in the certificate issued by the hospital, he can also apply for correction in the certificate on the basis of facts. In addition, if any person dies of Covid within 30 days of being confirmed to be Covid positive, his heir are also entitled to a grant. He also said that if a Covid patient admitted to a hospital dies after 30 days of hospitalisation, his heirs are also entitled to receive this assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-issues-guidelines-for-rs-50-000-ex-gratia-to-heirs-of-covid-19-victims-101635365319787.html
28-10-2021||Other||Only ‘parties’ held under Capt for over 4 years, Mann’s dig at ex-CM||Sangrur/Amritsar Taking a dig at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh who announced the formation of a new political party on Wednesday, Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Bhagwant Mann said, “Capt Amarinder Singh only organised ‘parties’ over the past four-and-a-half years. Now, he is forming a new party. People have made up their mind and they want freedom from the Congress and Capt Amarinder Singh.” He added, “Unemployed youth, anganwadi workers and agriculture crisis are Punjab’s issues, but Aroosa is not our concern.”SAD (Samyukt) leader and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, said, “My party will not have any alliance with Capt Amarinder Singh, because the former CM has already supported the extention of BSF jurisdiction in the state.” In Amritsar, Punjab medical education and research minister Raj Kumar Verka slammed Amarinder for his stand on several issues, including the extension of BSF’s jurisdiction. “Captain Amarinder, you are joining hands with anti-Punjab people. Punjab will never forgive you. You should cooperate with pro-people moves of the new dispensation under chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. You should not show love with PM Narendra Modi, but show love for Punjab and stand with its government and Congress instead,” Verka, once a staunch supporter of the former CM, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-parties-held-under-capt-for-over-4-years-mann-s-dig-at-excm-101635364959809.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||17-year-old Samrala boy hacks his grandparents to death over ‘property dispute’||A 17-year-old boy was taken into custody allegedly for hacking his grandparents to death with an axe in Samrala on Wednesday. Police said the crime was an outcome of a property dispute in the family. The accused, a Class 11 student, was alone at home when his grandparents visited the family’s one-room house. According to what villagers told the police, heated arguments ensued between the accused and his grandparents, following which he bolted the door from inside and attacked the elderly couple with an axe. The accused fled after committing the crime and was taken into custody later. His parents and siblings were away for work when the crime was committed, police said.Hearing the shrieks of the couple, some villagers rushed to rescue them but the accused threatened them too. The residents then informed the police. DSP Harwinder Singh Khaira said the accused has been booked for murder and taken into custody. He is studying in Class 11 at a local government school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17yearold-samrala-boy-hacks-his-grandparents-to-death-over-property-dispute-101635364599537.html
28-10-2021||Other||Punjab and Haryana HC to get five more judges||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court is set to get five more judges. It is learnt that the Central government has cleared names of five lawyers for appointment as judges. Those being appointed are senior advocate Vikas Suri; Vinod Sharma (Bhardwaj); senior standing counsel, UT Pankaj Jain; senior advocate, Jasjit Singh Bedi, son of former high court judge, HS Bedi (justice retd), and Haryana additional advocate general Sandeep Moudgil. With this, the number of judges in high court would be 50. The names of the four lawyers were recommended for elevation on September 1 by the Supreme Court Collegium and that of Sandeep Moudgil on September 29. The high court collegium had recommended their names in August 2020. The formal notification is expected in a day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-get-five-more-judges-101635364479476.html
28-10-2021||Other||Punjab DGP appointment: UPSC seeks clarification on joining date of some officers||Chandigarh The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has again sought a clarification from the Punjab home department on the joining date of certain officers, whose names are on the panel of nine senior-most IPS, being considered for appointment to the post of the state director general of police (DGP). Punjab is without a regular DGP for a month now, after previous DGP Dinkar Gupta decided to avail a month’s leave following a change in the chief minister. Since then, 1988-batch IPS, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, has been holding the charge of Punjab DGP. This is the second time that the UPSC has sought a clarification before holding its meeting to finalise names of three officers to be sent back to the state, which will then pick one from the panel of three. Punjab has not yet replied to the UPSC, with the matter referred to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. The UPSC’s previous clarification, sought last week, was on the date that should be considered as ‘cut-off’ for considering claims of officers whose names had been sent to it. As Punjab had sent the names on September 30, the state had conveyed the same date to be considered as the cut-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-dgp-appointment-upsc-seeks-clarification-on-joining-date-of-some-officers-101635364239537.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction: Capt backs move, says force not going to take over Punjab||Chandigarh Backing the BJP-led central government on the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed the Punjab government over its repeated denial of any serious security concerns. Amarinder, who resigned as the chief minister on September 18 after heading the state government for four-and-a-half years, said there was something very wrong and dangerous happening at the borders, which the state could ill-afford to ignore. A fortnight ago, the Centre had issued a notification to allow the BSF to “arrest, search and seize” within 50km from the International Border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Earlier, the BSF was permitted to undertake such operations up to 15km from the International Border in these states. On Monday, an all-party meeting convened by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi decided to oppose and reject the Centre’s notification by holding a special session of the Punjab assembly. Hitting out at the Congress regime for opposing the decision, the two-time former CM said the Border Security Force (BSF) was not going to take over Punjab’s administration or be deployed at the Golden Temple. He said sleeper cells of Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and Khalistani forces were creating trouble and technology becoming more advanced. “Drones with increasing payload are coming from Pakistan and smuggling drugs, weapons and explosive. The capacity and range of drones is increasing, first they came up to just 5-6km from the border, now they reach 31km,” he said at a press conference, adding: “We have to be careful of the clandestine war from across the borders”. Calling for full support by the state to the Centre in the interest of national security, Amarinder said the BSF was here to help maintain national security in the border state. “I am not an alarmist, but my 10 years of experience in the army and 9.5 years as the home minister of the state tells me that something is going to happen. Yet, a home minister who has been in his chair for one month, claims to know more than me,” he said, taking a dig at deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who has succeeded him as the home minister of Punjab. Countering those who mock his concerns of national security, he said it was the duty of every responsible government to tackle such threats. The state government should put the facts before the people and take their help in getting information instead of denying the danger, he added, claiming that political parties were not properly briefed on the issue at the all-party meet held on the issue. While Punjab Police was a first-class and well-trained force, they were, however, not trained to combat such threats, said the former CM, asserting that they needed the help of BSF and CRPF to tackle the problem. He pointed out that even in the days of terrorism, the army was helping out and nobody took over the state government job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-capt-backs-move-says-force-not-going-to-take-over-punjab-101635363879447.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ready to join probe on allegations of links with ISI: Aroosa Alam||Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam said on Tuesday that she is ready to join any investigation by Indian agencies for her alleged links with the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) as she described the allegations against her as “outrageous and utterly disappointing.” Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio in the state cabinet, last week said that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Alam has links with the notorious Pakistani spy agency.“I am ready to cooperate with the central agencies of India if they are opening any probe on the issue. India can even engage third-country investigators to probe the baseless propaganda against me,” Alam told PTI.“Some 16 years ago when I was first refused an Indian visa over some reasons, the Indian government had conducted such an investigation and subsequently a visa was issued to me,” she said, adding that she last visited India in November and former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is still her good friend. “Despite this controversy Capt Sahib is still my good friend,” the 67-year-old journalist said.She mocked what kind of ‘raaz (secret)’ the ISI had through her. “The allegations are simply outrageous and utterly disappointing,” she fumed. On Randhawa’s statement that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether she has links with the ISI, Alam alleged: “Linking me with the ISI can be a brainchild of Navjot Singh Sidhu’s chief strategist (Mohd) Mustafa. He might have advised Sidhu to play an ISI card after badly losing his bid to become the chief minister. The ISI card sells well in India.” She also questioned the jurisdiction of Randhawa to claim that he would probe her links with the ISI. “Randhawa does not know his jurisdiction. However, if he wants to investigate me, he is most welcome,” she said.Randhawa had claimed that Amarinder Singh has been friends with Alam for years, she stayed in India for many years and her visa was extended by the Centre from time to time.Alam, who remained a member of the South Asian Free Media Association (SAFMA) and vice-president of National Press Club (Islamabad), further said she is no longer active in journalism.“Since Capt Amarinder Singh intends to form his own party and may seek alliance with BJP, there has been mourning in the ranks of the Congress, which is a deeply divided house. Sidhu wanted to be the chief minister and he had told the party leadership not to make Randhawa chief minister,” she claimed.“Randhawa knows this and he has a grudge against Sidhu. And here comes a dark horse Charanjit Singh Channi who was given the reins of Punjab which badly hurt Sidhu,” said Alam, who is the mother of known TV host Fakhar-e-Alam, who is currently hosting a programme regarding Men’s T-20 ICC Cricket World Cup in Dubai on Ten’s Sports. Chiding Mustafa for embroiling her in this controversy, she said his wife Razia, who had three ministries in the previous government, now has hardly any in the incumbent set up. “After the setback, Sidhu has literally disappeared on the political map,” she claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ready-to-join-probe-on-allegations-of-links-with-isi-aroosa-alam-101635363579735.html
28-10-2021||Other||SGPC website hacked into; online services hit||Amritsar The official website of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has been hacked and has been non-functional for over three days starting Monday. Consequently, services like online donation, booking of Serai rooms and the streaming of ‘Live Kirtan’ from the Golden Temple have been halted. Engineers of the SGPC, the body which manages the affairs of historic gurdwaras in the northern region including the Golden Temple and runs many institutes, have been working to resolve the issue, but without success to date.A few months ago, a Jalandhar-based website building firm had put the portal online after a redesign. When the SGPC noticed the attack, the website was disabled to prevent any further loss. SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said, “Our technical experts are working to fix the problem. It will be restored within a day or two. We regret the inconvenience caused to devotees.” Since the new website had gone live, there had been criticism of its presentation. The main grouse of users was that the website previous to the one hacked into provided far more comprehensive information and data on Sikhism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-website-hacked-into-online-services-hit-101635363519417.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Abhinand, Jennifer bag table tennis titles||PB Abhinand got the better of Balamurugan Muthu while Jennifer Varghese overpowered Sandhika Bhattacharjee in the youth U-15 boys’ and girls’ finals, respectively, during the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championships Trophy (North Zone), at Multipurpose Sports Complex, Sector 78 Mohali on Wednesday.Playing in the semi-finals, PB Abhinand beat Kushal Chopda 12-10, 11-9, 12-10, 13-11 while Balamurugan Muthu prevailed over Nikkhil Menon 11-9, 11-5, 6-11, 11-6, 11-9 to enter the finals. In the youth U-15 girls’ semi-finals, Jennifer Varghese outplayed M Hansini 11-5, 11-7, 6-11, 11-9, 11-7 while Sandhika Bhattacharjee defeated Sayani Panda 11-8, 8-11, 7-11, 12-14, 11-6, 11-7.Football: Harman sets up Tricity FC’s triumphHarman scored a goal in the 87th minute to set up Tricity FC’s 1-0 win over Chandigarh Police Kids Academy during the Chandigarh Police Shaheed Memorial Football Trophy in Sector 26 on Wednesday.In other matches, Stephens FC held a 1-1 draw against Saibaba FC while Le Professor beat Golden FC by 3-0. JSM FA outclassed PU Student FC 2-0, Liberty outplayed Sai Baba FC by 4-0 while the tie between Rajeshwar FC and Tricity FC ended in a 1-1 draw. Liberty FC will take on JSM FC, while Le Professor will lock horns with Tricity FC in the semi-finals to be played on Thursday.Daksh shines for CC AcademyChandigarh Led by Daksh Kashyap’s all-round show (40 runs not out and 4 for 5), Chandigarh Cricket Academy beat TDL Cricket Academy, Panchkula, by seven wickets in a match played during the 2nd Grecobe Cup late Lala Amarnath Aggarwal Under-14 cricket tournament at the TDL Cricket Stadium, Panchkula, on Wednesday. In another match, CL Champs Cricket Academy, Panchkula beat Sunrise Cricket Academy, Zirakpur, by 35 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-abhinand-jennifer-bag-table-tennis-titles-101635363101244.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Nine test positive in Chandigarh tricity||Chandigarh/Mohali/Panchkula The tricity on Wednesday recorded nine fresh Covid infections, against the four cases on Tuesday. Five cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by two infections each in Mohali and Panchkula. Also, no death was recorded for the 22nd consecutive day.In Chandigarh, the infections surfaced in Sectors 9 and 16 whereas in Mohali, one case each surfaced from Mohali city and Dhakoli. In Panchkula, the infected people are residents of Sector 31 and Amravati Enclave.Meanwhile, tricity’s active cases tally stands at 69, with 29 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 25 in Mohali and 15 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-nine-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101635362924123.html
28-10-2021||Other||Industrial park will ruin Mattewara forests: Ludhiana NGOs||Raising hue and cry over the proposed industrial park project near Mattewara forests, various NGOs staged a peaceful protest by holding placards on chief minister (CM) Charanjit Channi’s route to the venue of the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit on Ferozepur Road on Wednesday. The members of NGOs, including the Public Action Committee (PAC), Naroa Punjab Manch, Vigilant Citizens’ Forum, etc., stated that they are not against setting up the industry, but it should not damage or pollute the water bodies and forest area. The protesting residents also tried to meet the CM, but they were allegedly not allowed by the police.A social activist, Jaskirat Singh, said they have been protesting against the proposed project of developing an industrial park allegedly on the flood plains of river Sutlej and near Mattewara forests. A petition regarding the same was also filed in National Green Tribunal, but the government is still moving forward with the proposal, which will ultimately pollute Sutlej and damage the forest area.“We staged a peaceful protest around 2km away from the venue for the summit. After the convoy of the CM moved past the protest site, a few police officials came and said they will help us meet the CM near the helipad site. They, however, detained us in the nearby school and did not allow us to meet CM,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/industrial-park-will-ruin-mattewara-forests-ludhiana-ngos-101635362922618.html
28-10-2021||Other||Delegation of Punjab rural colleges meets Pargat, seek focus on higher education||A delegation of state rural colleges met Punjab education minister Pargat Singh in Chandigarh on Tuesday and demanded the upliftment of the institutions.A delegation comprising nine members, including Kuldeep Batta, Surinder Mohan and Gurpreet Singh from GN College, Narangwal; Jagwant Singh, secretary, PFUCTO; Avtar Singh, principal, GTB National College, Dakha; Rajinder Singh, SBAS College, Sandaur; Amrinder Singh and Manpreet Singh from Akal Degree College, Mastuana, and Harinderjit Singh Kler, Malwa College, Samrala Bondli.Only four of them were permitted to meet Pargat Singh. The delegation handed over a proposed roadmap of the development of higher education in rural areas in the state.Kuldeep Batta said that the economic conditions in Punjab have deteriorated over the years and forced people to move out not only from rural to urban areas but even outside the country.He added that rural youth hardly find avenues for future growth or education in their vicinity and due to meagre resources, most of them give up studies after matric. As a result, the gross enrolment ratio remains low.The delegation further spoke about the pending promises of the government to release HRA to the rural teaching and non-teaching staff in the state.“Our contemporaries working in urban areas are getting HRA. But those working in rural areas are being denied this allowance despite court rulings in their favour. The minister had promised us that he’ll expedite his efforts to get our HRA released soon. He said that he would hold a meeting with the education secretary pertaining to our demands and make the required announcements soon,” told Batta.The delegation also requested the minister to fund the books of the rural students from economically weaker sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delegation-of-punjab-rural-colleges-meets-pargat-seek-focus-on-higher-education-101635362619280.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala police bust interstate gang of tractor thieves||The CIA team of Naraingarh police busted an interstate gang of tractor thieves on Wednesday with the arrest of two men. Eight tractors, a trolley and a rotavator were recovered from the duo. Police said that the agricultural vehicles and equipment were stolen from farmers in Ambala, Yamunanagar and Karnal in the past two years. The accused have been identified as Jishan and Bhoora, both residents of Saharanpur. Jishan was arrested on October 22 from his native Gangoh village and taken into four days remand in a case lodged at Mullana police station.“During interrogation, he gave us information on all the stolen vehicles and the involvement of his accomplice, Bhoora, of village Alipur Bhaguwala in Saharanpur, who was held on Monday,” CIA in-charge Surender Kumar said.Of the recovered items, three tractors and a rotavator were stolen from Naraingarh, two from Yamunanagar, a tractor-trolley each from Mullana and Shahazadpur and a tractor from Karnal.Kumar said that the duo was sent to judicial custody after being presented before a court on Tuesday. “There are more gang members involved in this crime, who will be arrested soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-police-bust-interstate-gang-of-tractor-thieves-101635362382099.html
28-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana colonisers seek issuance of NOCs, submit memo with CM||Facing an economic crisis due to the alleged restrictions imposed by the state government on the issuance of NOCs for their plots, members of the Punjab Colonisers and Property Dealers’ Association submitted a memorandum with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi during his visit to the city for the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit on Wednesday.Apprising the CM of the problems being faced by the sector at Park Plaza, the members rued that the bureaucracy is misleading the government on certain issues, due to which the plot holders are not being able to get the NOC for their regularised plots and the process to register the property in their names is on standby. The power connections are also not being issued to the plot holders even after they have got their plots regularised under the policy floated by the state government in the past.The delegation of colonisers led by chairman Darshan Lal Baweja, president GS Lamba, general secretary Deepak Badyal, among others, also demanded that the government fulfil the promises made in the 2017 election manifesto, which also included the formation of a board for resolving the problems faced by colonisers.Lamba said, “The bureaucracy is misinterpreting an order issued by the high court in the recent past and due to this the NOCs are not being issued against the plots, which have been regularised under the regularisation policy. In the absence of an NOC, the plot holders are not able to get their plots’ registry done. Similarly, power connections are not being issued even after the regularisation of plots. The PSPCL is stating that the power connection will be issued only after the colonisers get the NOC for the entire colony. Why would the coloniser pay a fee to PSPCL separately, if he has already paid or is paying the regularisation fee?”The members stated that the NOC is being demanded against the plots/colonies which were developed even before the PAPRA Act came into existence in 1995.MLA Sanjay Talwar, who had arranged a meeting between the colonisers and the CM, stated that the former were assured that the problems being faced by the sector will be resolved in a few days.Earlier on October 21, the colonisers had stated that they would be forced to hand over the keys of their offices to the government if they failed to resolve the issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-colonisers-seek-issuance-of-nocs-submit-memo-with-cm-101635362212645.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER study: 82% severe Covid patients showed abnormal lung function||Around 82% severe Covid patients who required hospitalisation and mechanical ventilation, showed abnormal lung function three months after their discharge from the intensive care unit, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) found in a study. The study, which was conducted by following up with severe Covid patients discharged from the ICU at PGIMER, analysed the differences in pulmonary function, mental health, and quality of life (QOL) after hospitalisation and has been published in the September edition of US based Cureus Journal of Medical Science. As many as 189 patients, above the age of 18, were admitted to PGIMER’s ICU due to severe Covid infection from January 1 to April 30, 2021 and 145 of them were discharged. However, 31 patients were lost to follow-up. The remaining 114 patients were contacted telephonically and it was found that 21 of them had died during the three-month time period after their recovery. Of the 93 survivors, 81 reported to the hospital to participate in the study. The anaesthesia department of PGIMER studied the pulmonary functioning of the remaining 74 patients who were suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and it was concluded that 61 (82%) of them had abnormal lung function. “It was believed that survivors of Covid-19 pneumonia may have residual lung injury and poor physical and mental health even after discharge. To check the post Covid complications, the study was conducted by the professors and associate professors of the anesthesia department. However, it was found that the serious patients, who require invasive mechanical ventilation (MV) during their hospitalisation, have a greater risk of impaired pulmonary function and reduced quality of life after their discharge,” reads the study. The doctors also concluded that patients need strict follow-up after their discharge from hospitals, as there are high chances that patients who needed mechanical ventilation of getting lung-related problems. There may be a greater need for rehabilitative therapies for such patients, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-study-82-severe-covid-patients-showed-abnormal-lung-function-101635362211400.html
28-10-2021||Pune||One injured in dacoity onboard Konark Express in Daund||PUNE: One passenger was injured during a robbery aboard Konark Express in Daund area of Pune late on Tuesday night. The police are on the lookout for three persons for the dacoity. The injured was identified as Rakesh Gaikwad (27) who sustained leg wounds as one of the dacoits assaulted him with rocks. Three men managed to enter the Mumbai-Bhubaneshwar Konark Express that had left from Pune and heading towards Daund. The train could not receive the required green signal and had, therefore, stopped, between Pune and Daund. “They must have cut the signal wires. That is their known modus. The train stopped since it could not get the signal. And it was running late as it is due to the double line work that is ongoing and railway blocks. They found the train at a dark time and stationary,” said assistant inspector Yuvraj Kalkutge of Daund Government railway police station. The men robbed one woman, identified as Kalpana Srirame (48), in Sleeper 4 compartment. They fled with mangalsutra of around 18gram gold, according to the police. The three got off the compartment, ran ahead, and forced themselves into Sleeper 4 where they grabbed a 11gram necklace of another woman called Meenakshi Gaikwad (32) who was travelling with her brother, the injured man. “He saw from a distance that someone was robbing his sister and ran after them and jumped out of the train. He caught hold of one of them and pinned him, that is when one of the remaining two returned and attacked him with a stone. He underwent treatment and went home,” said API Kulkutge. The phenomenon of dacoity by cutting signal wires is known along stations that come four stations after Daund while travelling from Pune, according to the GRP officials. “There were a number of such cases from four stations after Daund. In the past few years, this is the first time that it has happened in Daund. We had increased the security in the known areas maybe that is why they targeted a less likely spot,” said API Kalkutge. Two major gangs from the area have been arrested under separate cases in which Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked. In the current case, Sections 394 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was invoked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-injured-in-dacoity-onboard-konark-express-in-daund-101635362079553.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Manan to lead Chandigarh in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy||Manan Vohra will lead the Chandigarh team in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy to be played at Gurugram and Lahli (Rohtak) from November 4. The team of 25 members, including five support staff, left for Gurugram on Wednesday. The Elite E group comprises Chandigarh, Hyderabad, UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Saurashtra.Chandigarh will play its first match against UP on November 4 and face Delhi on November 5. Chandigarh will lock horns with Hyderabad on November 6, followed by Saurashtra on November 8. The team will end its campaign against Uttarakhand on November 9.Team: Manan Vohra (captain), Shivam Bhambri, Sarul Kanwar, Ankit Kaushik, Kunal Mahajan, Gaurav Puri, Gurinder Singh, Bhagmender Lather, Arpit Singh, Arjit Singh, Jaskarandeep Singh Buttar, Rahul Sharma, Jagjit Sandhu, Shrestha Nirmohi, Parmesh Kumar, Yuvraj Chaudhary, Taranpreet Singh, Jaskaranveer Singh Sohi, Gaurav Gambhir, Amrit Lubana, Amit Nayyar (coach), Sandeep Singh Arora (assistant coach), Girish Bhanot (manager), Saurabh Khandelwal (physio) and Sagar Sudan (trainer).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-manan-to-lead-chandigarh-in-syed-mushtaq-ali-trophy-101635362023714.html
28-10-2021||Patna||Ruling JD(U) dismisses talk that Lalu’s campaign can play spoiler in Bihar bypolls||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar on Wednesday dismissed suggestions that the campaigning by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad could damage its winning prospects in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats, where bypolls are to be held on October 30. Both seats were won by JD (U) in the 2020 assembly elections.Prasad, who has been away from the state since December 2017 when he was convicted and jailed in fodder scam cases, held election rallies in both constituencies on Wednesday.“Lalu unleashed his tongue while Nitish Kumar’s work speaks for him. Nobody can forget the journey to Kusheshwar Asthan from Darbhanga 16 years ago and the smooth ride today. It would have been better had Laluji talked about what his government had done. People enjoying round-the-clock electricity supply will not like to even remember the lantern age they were condemned to live in earlier,” said Bihar minister and JD(U) general secretary Sanjay Jha, who has been camping in the area for weeks.“If Bihar today has infant mortality rate (IMR) less than the national average, which is reflected through the Centre’s report released on Tuesday, it shows how the Nitish Kumar government has worked at the basics,” he said.JD (U) spokesman Neeraj Kumar said that despite his illness, Lalu Prasad going for campaigning shows he does not have trust in the ability of his son and heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “There has been no change in his approach despite consistent drubbing at the hands of the voters since 2005 and the bypoll results will also be no different. Nitish Kumar has given him enough of political treatment in the last 15 years. It is strange that a man who cannot contest even panchayat polls is seeking votes in assembly elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ruling-jd-u-dismisses-talk-that-lalu-s-campaign-can-play-spoiler-in-bihar-bypolls-101635361899616.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Man cheated of ₹60k for bricks guised as Apple products; two arrested||PUNE: Two men were arrested for cheating a 38-year-old man in Pune by selling bricks guised as products they had bought and accepted ₹60,000 for it. The two arrested were identified as Allauddin Alimuddin Malik (45) and Mohammad Ikram Malik (42) both residents of different localities in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. The arrested men went to a pizza chain restaurant in Kharadi on October 15 and approached a man with an offer to sell him three Apple products - laptop, phone and watch. The men told the complainant that they had managed to get the products at a subsidised rate at the auction by the customs department. The men showed the products and cash memos for their auction bid to the complainant. The men quoted ₹60,000 for all three products which would cost over ₹2.5 lakh if bought at a legitimate store. However, when the men handed over the bag, they exchanged it with the one that had bricks and a pouch with a glass instead of the laptop, phone, and watch. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandannagar police station. Assistant inspector Gajanan Pawar of Chandannagar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-cheated-of-rs-60k-for-bricks-guised-as-apple-products-two-arrested-101635361839915.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Special college vaccination drive gets slow response in Pune||Pune: The special college vaccination drive has received a slow response from the college staff and students as only 1,463 people have gotten their jabs through the drive. Out of this, 1,425 were first dose beneficiaries and remaining were second doses. A total of 19 colleges have participated in the drive and had their teaching and non-teaching staff benefit from the drive. The drive was started with the aim to vaccinate both teaching and non-teaching staff and also students with the vaccine as the district administration allowed reopening of colleges post Dussehra. Although the absolute numbers have been low, a significant percentage of the people who have gotten their vaccine through the drive have been those who took the dose for the first time. Majority of the beneficiaries were also aged between 18-45, the youngest of those eligible to get the vaccine. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunization officer said, “Many of the beneficiaries are first dose beneficiaries however all of these beneficiaries are not necessarily from Pune and so it could be that students who have come from outside districts and those who couldn’t get the vaccine in their district took it through this drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/special-college-vaccination-drive-gets-slow-response-in-pune-101635361780817.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Brother, family booked for abetting man’s suicide||The police have booked a man, his wife and their son for abetting his brother’s suicide in Ambala’s Naraingarh on Tuesday.The accused have been identified as Shiv Ram, the deceased’s brother, his wife Kamlesh and son Abhishek, who were all named in the suicide note left behind by the man, SHO Dhoom Singh said.“The man’s autopsy was conducted and handed over to the family for last rites on Wednesday,” Singh said.The victim’s 24-year-old son stated in his police complaint that the trio used to taunt his father over one acre of ancestral land belonging to his grandfather.“We held several meetings to resolve the issue, but to no avail. On Tuesday, my father consumed a poisonous substance and we took him to a private clinic and then to civil hospital, from where he was referred to Chandigarh. He died on the way,” he told the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-brother-family-booked-for-abetting-man-s-suicide-101635361779346.html
28-10-2021||Other||Residents object to felling of trees in Ludhiana||Amid rising concern over air pollution and depleting green cover, residents of HJ block (housing colony) in Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar slammed the civic body for the illegal cutting of trees on the pretext of pruning in a park situated in their locality on Wednesday.The residents stated that the trunks of at least three trees were illegally axed. They had objected to the same but, the gardener continued the exercise and stated that pruning of trees was being done on orders of higher authorities.Residents Ravjot Singh and Charanpal Singh Aulakh stated that on one hand, the government and administration are encouraging the residents to plant more trees, on the other hand, the civic body is chopping the trees in the name of pruning.Ravjot said,” The authorities should take note of the problem as the green cover is already depleting. Earlier too, incidents have been reported from the area wherein branches of decades-old trees were chopped off and economically weaker sections of the society took those away. This should stop, and efforts should be made to plant more trees in the neighbourhood.”The residents also raised objections against the installation of interlocking tiles around the roots of the trees, which ultimately stops their growth.Area councillor Seema Kapoor said,” No official complaint has been received in this regard. However, I will look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-object-to-felling-of-trees-in-ludhiana-101635361659316.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to attempt modernisation of dhobi ghats again||The municipal corporation will make another attempt to modernise dhobhi ghats in the city. The MC general house, in its October 29 meeting, will take up the agenda for the renovation of dhobhi ghats in Sectors 19, 20, 27, 22, 32, 7 and 15. Each ghat will have to pay ₹5,000 per year to the civic body and people will not be allowed to use the place as a residence, states the agenda. The MC had in its earlier attempts failed to generate adequate funds from these ghats and consequently, the modernisation couldn’t be taken up. The agenda states that dhobi ghats should be provided modern facilities and latest technologies. Along with this, it is also being deliberated to offer them through open auction or e-tendering. An official said the process got delayed due to Covid. Meanwhile, the agenda on upgrading the waste processing plant will have to wait for another MC house meet. IIT Ropar will submit a draft detailed project report only after November 11. MC officials said a special house meet can be called on the issue before the election code of conduct comes into force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-attempt-modernisation-of-dhobi-ghats-again-101635361604042.html
28-10-2021||Other||State agriculture minister lauds Punjab Agricultural University’s academic, research activities||State agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha paid a visit to PAU on Wednesday. Chief secretary development and PAU vice-chancellor DK Tiwari also graced the occasion. Nabha visited the exhibition stalls set up by various departments of PAU. The minister applauded the academic, research, and extension activities undertaken by PAU.He said Punjab is called food basket of the nation, and PAU has provided the required technical leadership. He said that PAU is continuously enlightening the farmers about new challenges faced by the agriculture sector.The minister encouraged the agricultural experts to be more dedicated to their work. In his address, Nabha asked the agricultural experts to identify different crop zones towards bringing up of agricultural development model.Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, PAU, spoke about the research being done by the university on various varieties of crops, fruits, and vegetables.RS Sidhu, registrar, PAU, said that the university is dedicated to the betterment of agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-agriculture-minister-lauds-punjab-agricultural-university-s-academic-research-activities-101635361481861.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Gen Naravane to be chief guest at NDA Passing out Parade on Oct 29||Pune: The Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) General Manoj Naravane will be the chief guest at the Passing out Parade of the 141st Course of the National Defence Academy (NDA) at Khadakwasla near Pune to be held on October 29. A defence release said the Passing out Parade will be held at the Khetrapal Parade Ground, NDA. The NDA is the joint services academy of the armed forces where cadets receive training together before they go to their respective service academies for further pre-commissioning training. The chief, who is alumni of the NDA and belongs to the 56th course, will also hand over awards to meritorious passing out cadets and will address them. This is the fourth Passing our Parade being carried out under Covid norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gen-naravane-to-be-chief-guest-at-nda-passing-out-parade-on-oct-29-101635361480591.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Black farm laws should be repealed immediately: Mohali MLA||Demanding immediate repeal of the three contentious farm laws, Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said that these laws will prove to be the last nail on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s coffin. Presiding over a district-level kisan mela and exhibition organised by the agriculture department, the former health minister said that farmers of the entire nation have been agitating for one year but Narendra Modi-led Union Government has not paid any heed to their plight. He said that in fact everyone talks of grand plans for doubling the farmers’ income by 2022, but in reality no one bothers about their plight for no concrete policies have been made for them. ‘’The use of force cannot solve the problem as it can’t muzzle their voice. Hence, it becomes imperative on the part of the Centre to recognise the pain, pangs and depth of farmers’ emotions and sentiments to reach out to them sensitively to find a viable mechanism to redress their genuine grievances,’’ he added. The three-time Mohali MLA said that the state government has decided to summon the 16th Special Session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha on November 8 to repeal the three black farm laws. Highlighting the need of crop diversification during the kisan mela, Sidhu said that its adoption helps in conservation of natural resources besides to get best price for other crops such as rapeseed and cotton. He said that untimely downpour played havoc for farmers but the state government is committed to compensate the farmers and already ordered a special girdawari to assess the damage. He also called agriculture scientists to develop such methods or pesticides/insecticides to control crop diseases so that yield can’t be affected. He demanded ₹150 per quintal as bonus on paddy from the Union Government to manage the stubble in the field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-farm-laws-should-be-repealed-immediately-mohali-mla-101635361419301.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Two arrested for theft on passenger bus, gold worth ₹37.7 lakh recovered||Pune: The Pune rural police, on Wednesday, arrested two of three men accused of stealing gold and cash worth ₹1 crore from a bus passenger, according to Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police. Gold worth ₹37.7 lakh was recovered from the duo. The arrested men have been identified as Maruti Rajaram Pitekar and Ananta Lakshman Dhande, both residents of Karjat in Ahmednagar, according to police. The two are named in three other cases in Satara, Nandurbar, and Ahmednagar dating back to 2016. They are also booked in a criminal case in Karnataka. The police are looking for one other person in the theft case. The three accused occupied seats on the bus and were aware of the complainant carrying gold ornaments. “The accused and their family members stalk wholesale gold dealers who transport gold from one state to another. They pretend to be pilgrims and live in the vicinity of the houses of people who transport gold. They book themselves on the same bus on which their targets book tickets. When the person is sleeping or not paying attention, they pick up the bag. They tell the driver to stop the bus by citing sudden death of a family member,” read a statement by SP Deshmukh. The complainant had boarded the bus in Hubli and was headed towards Mumbai in a private transport bus registered in the name of a travel company in Karnataka. A case under Sections 379 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Rajgad police station in the case which dates back to October 11. The complainant submitted that he was robbed of cash worth ₹18 lakh and 2,110 grammes of 18-carat gold worth ₹81,24,000, according to the police. The Pune rural police started investigating the case by forming two teams, one each for Kurduwadi in Solapur and one for Karjat in Ahmednagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-theft-on-passenger-bus-gold-worth-rs-37-7-lakh-recovered-101635361299862.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Firecrackers to burst at low sound levels this Diwali in Pune||Pune: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has taken steps to allow sale of firecrackers with low sound levels as compared to previous years for Diwali. This year, the variety is limited to 15 types and the sound firecrackers, especially “sutli” (string wrapped cracker) and joined firecrackers (series crackers or laris) seem to have lost their effect According to MPCB, some crackers will burst at even below the stipulated sound levels, with maximum allowable decibel of 125dB for impulse sound pressure single firecrackers and peak allowable decibel at 145dB. On October 20, MPCB conducted its annual firecracker testing programme at an open ground in Tingarenagar, Vishrantwadi where 15 types of firecrackers were tested. Firecracker companies like Anil fireworks, Sivakasi Anil Fireworks, Rekha fireworks, Mahalaxmi industries, Anil Moto Sivakasi, Shree Subhalaxmi fireworks and Ramanna fireworks were on trial. “We tested regular ‘sutli’ crackers with names like Saddam Bomb Green, Jocker Bomb and Maga Bomb which are usually the loudest single firecrackers but this year on the sound pressure level, they recorded between 100.3dB to 99.7dB. There is no noise level limit written on firecracker which is a must,” said Pratap Jagtap, sub regional officer, MPCB. Popular crackers like “Chorsa Garland or the whistling rocket”, “Flowerpot”, “Rocket Bomb” or “7 Shots” too fell short in the noise level test and recorded at 113.6dB, 81.9dB, 64dB, 78dB and 97.8dB respectively. “The idea of holding such firecracker testing is also to create public awareness and upload the data on the website to facilitate customers who buy firecrackers,” said Jagtap. He said that this year as in 2019, there are no green firecrackers on sale or for testing. “Perhaps, they might be on sale on the day of Diwali,” he said. Popular crackers Joined firecrackers (series crackers or laris) Anil Moto Sivakasi: 28 series SSL (Shree Shubloxmi Fireworks): 2,000 series Ramana Fireworks Sivakasi: 1,000 series||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/firecrackers-to-burst-at-low-sound-levels-this-diwali-in-pune-101635361299159.html
28-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana girls’ team wins state baseball championship||Ludhiana baseball girls’ team won the state tournament by defeating Ferozepur by 14-4 in the final match of the 9th Junior Punjab State Baseball Championship organised by Punjab Baseball Association at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gill, on Wednesday.In the semi-finals, while Ludhiana had beaten Moga by 12-0, Ferozpur outwitted Sangrur by 12-3.Moga bagged the third spot in the girls’ category by beating Sangrur by a 1-0 score.Meanwhile, Ludhiana beat Moga by a 3-2 score in the boys’ category during the first semi-final match on Wednesday.In the second semi-final match, Fazilka beat Mohali by a 14-4 score.Ludhiana and Fazilka will clash for the finals on Thursday. Meanwhile, Moga and Mohali will compete for the third spot.Teams from 15 districts including Ludhiana, Fazilka, Patiala, Moga, Barnala, Ferozpur, Sangrur, Amritsar, Malerkotla, SAS Nagar, Muktsar, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Jalandhar, and Fatehgarh Sahib, participated in the championship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-girls-team-wins-state-baseball-championship-101635361120690.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Phase 2 of bicycle sharing project faces delay||The second phase of the public bicycle sharing (PBS) project in Chandigarh is facing a delay in launch. Chief general manager of CSCL, NP Sharma, said, “This is due to difficulties in procurement. The same company is implementing the PBS system in other cities of the country and due to this, demand of cycles is very high. The launch of the second phase is likely to be delayed by one to two months.” Sharma added that they have already been able to add 400 more cycles and procured parts for more docking stations and the project is going forward as planned.The bicycle sharing project will be launched in four phases. The first phase was launched in August with 1,250 smart cycles and 155 docking stations. The second phase also plans to add 1,250 more smart cycles and 155 more docking stations. By the end of the fourth phase, which is scheduled to be completed sometime in 2022, the project envisions a total of 5,000 cycles and 617 docking stations, making it the densest PBS system of India.Meanwhile, road safety experts are calling for the administration to improve the quality of cycle tracks and build more cycle tracks in the southern parts of the city. The recently released Road Safety in Chandigarh 2020 report points out how the percentage of cyclist fatalities in 2020 was the highest in the past five years. The initial popularity of the system is also dipping. In the first month after its launch, there were an average of 2,742 rides a day. The statistics now indicate that the average number of rides has come down to 1,733 per day. Due to technical glitches earlier, rides were being booked for free, but from September 21 onwards, ₹10 plus GST is being charged per half an hour after which numbers have started coming down.Till date 1,27,469 rides have been booked and 9,94,258.2 kilometres have been covered, bringing the average length per trip to 7.8 kilometers per trip. There are 1,19,577 registered users on the SmartBike app. While officials didn’t share data related to vandalism of these smart cycles, it can be seen at many station that their handles or baskets are damaged. As many as 193 cases of vandalism had reported in the first month of the project, with incidents where some people had also tried to steal these cycles and take them home.The project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire M/s Smart Bike Tech Private Limited, Hyderabad, for a period of 10 years on public private partnership (PPP) basis with no cost to the administration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-phase-2-of-bicycle-sharing-project-faces-delay-101635361119238.html
28-10-2021||Pune||PMC to provide primary cancer treatment at lower than government charges at Mohammadwadi civic hospital in Pune||PUNE: Due to the lack of adequate skilled and unskilled labour in the health department, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to outsource the job of providing primary medical treatment and osteopathy to cancer patients to a third-party agency, which has agreed to provide the services at 10% lower than the charges under the Central Government Health Services (CGHS).The PMC on Tuesday approved the proposal appointing TrustHealth Care Foundation as the third-party agency for a period of 30 years. As per the tender, the PMC will provide the necessary space at the civic hospital in Mohammadwadi while TrustHealth Care Foundation will provide the necessary trained and untrained manpower and machinery while also paying the salaries of the employed manpower. The PMC already has 306.87 square metre of space lying vacant on the first floor of the civic hospital in Mohammadwadi. The corporation will not charge the agency any rent while the agency will be allowed to charge only the amount as decided in the contract, which will be 10% less than the CGHS. Determined by the central government, the CGHS rates were updated on May 2, 2021 and are different for NABH/NABL and non-NABH/NABL hospitals. The facility will provide major relief to people living in and around the area as charges will be lower than government charges.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, said, “This will be a pilot project and the hospital will be the first-of-its-kind to provide these services at a civic facility. The hospital will provide primary treatment for cancer-like surgeries or chemotherapy but not for complicated treatment such as radiotherapy. This will also be the first civic hospital to get ICU services as currently, we have ICU services only for Covid-19 patients. As regards manpower which is currently on a contractual basis, it will be a policy decision whether to keep it or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-provide-primary-cancer-treatment-at-lower-than-government-charges-at-mohammadwadi-civic-hospital-in-pune-101635361061384.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Cheating case: Pune police cover 16 locations in search of Gosavi||Pune: The city police have checked 16 locations linked to absconding key Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) witness Kiran Gosavi during the past 48 hours. Three teams have been formed by the city police with two of them camping in Uttar Pradesh while one team is carrying out an independent search. Gosavi’s selfie with Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and later recording his statement as part of NCB probe went viral on social media. Gosavi is wanted in connection with a cheating case lodged against him in 2018. DCP (Zone 1) Priyanka Narnavre on Wednesday confirmed that police teams had been deployed to arrest Gosavi. An independent witness of NCB in the Cordelia drugs-on-cruise case, Gosavi had surfaced in Lucknow where he said that he would be surrendering before the police. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “He is yet to be traced. Once in our custody, more cheating cases will be lodged against him. He is a very shrewd person,” he said. The city police have arrested Gosavi’s assistant Sherbano Kureshi in connection with the cheating case filed by one Chinmay Deshmukh, who alleged that Gosavi cheated him of ₹3.09 lakh on the pretext of providing him a job in Malaysia. Kureshi had received the money in her account. Pune police later issued a lookout circular to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country. Speaking to news channels, Gosavi claimed he was planning to surrender, before he disappeared. Prabhakar Sail, a former driver-cum-bodyguard of Gosavi, has alleged that ₹25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and others, including a private detective, to let Aryan off in the drug case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cheating-case-pune-police-cover-16-locations-in-search-of-gosavi-101635360699241.html
28-10-2021||Pune||MSRTC workers begin hunger strike, threaten statewide protest if demands not met||PUNE: Members of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) Workers’ Union, Pune division, on Tuesday began a hunger strike outside the MSRTC Pune divisional office on Shankar Sheth road, demanding that they be paid their pending dues along with Diwali bonus and extra payment for those who worked during the lockdown period.At around 10 am, around 50 MSRTC staffers and workers from various depots in the Pune division gathered outside the MSRTC Pune divisional office and began a hunger strike. While Tuesday’s protest was carried out on a small scale, the workers have threatened a more aggressive, statewide strike beginning Wednesday in the event their demands are not fulfilled.Dilip Parab, secretary of the Pune division of the MSRTC Workers’ Union, said, “As per the 2016 agreement signed by the state government and announced by the then transport minister, we are to be given a hike in our house allowance and an increment in our salaries. We are still to be paid these dues. We had also demanded Rs15,000 as Diwali bonus however we have been paid only Rs2,500. How do we celebrate Diwali in so less an amount? It has already become difficult to survive post the lockdown.”Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller, said, “There was no impact of the Tuesday strike on daily bus operations. A decision on the workers’ demands will be taken by the state ministry and we will follow the orders accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-workers-begin-hunger-strike-threaten-statewide-protest-if-demands-not-met-101635360464346.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine for children: PGIMER to start Covovax trials next week||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will start administering the Covovax vaccine to children aged between 2 and 17 from next week, as part of the second and third phases of trials, the institute’s authorities said on Wednesday.Covovax— a vaccine against Covid-19 for children, which has been primarily developed by the US firm Novavax Inc, will be mass produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, mainly for children below the age of 18. Covovax is the third Covid-19 vaccine to be tested on children in India, after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D.PGIMER is among the 10 institutes conducting the trials, which is aimed at checking the safety and immune response of the vaccine. The institute aims to immunise around 100 children, with two doses of 0.5 ml each, on Day 1 and Day 22 respectively.However, the PGIMER has received only 20 registrations from the children volunteering for the trials, so far. Dr Madhu Gupta, professor at community medicine and school of public health and principal investigator of the project, said, “PGIMER has got ethical clearance for conducting the trials. However, now we are waiting to receive vaccine stock from the SII and expecting to start by next week.”‘Vaccine safe, children can volunteer’Dr Gupta added, “In the initial stages of the trials, the efficacy of Covovax is said to be over 90% and it is completely safe. However, not many parents have shown interest in registering their children for trials, so far, but keeping in view the zero side effects being reported post inoculation, parents must end hesitancy and allow their children to volunteer.”While inviting children, the PGIMER authorities said: “Parents of healthy children, who want their kids to participate in the trials, can fill the consent form and send it to the institute through email or text message. The consent form is available at https://forms.gle/rmFo2kJrjwivHaeA8 and can be sent at covovax2021@gmail.com or 7347665382 or 7347665383.”‘Children should not wait for vaccine to start going for school’Meanwhile, Dr Suman Singh, director of health services, Chandigarh, said, “The sero-survey conducted by PGIMER and GMCH-32 showed herd immunity in Chandigarh against the virus. Also, low severity of virus infection was recorded among the paediatric population during the surge. The adults are also vaccinated against the virus and thus, children should not wait for the roll out the Covid vaccine to start going to school.”“Parents must send their children to school as the online classes are already affecting their mental health. Children are safe due to herd immunity and anti-covid vaccines will further help them stay protected”, said Dr Gupta, adding that India may start rolling-out vaccines for children from early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-for-children-pgimer-to-start-covovax-trials-next-week-101635360462989.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Infra push to tackle soaring dengue cases||Surge in dengue cases has prompted authorities to revamp the health infrastructure to tackle eventualities. The apheresis machine at the Ludhiana civil hospital that had been lying defunct for nearly four years is all set to be made operational as the management has roped in an engineer to fix the snag. An apheresis machine separates blood received from donors into its various components like plasma, platelets and white and red blood cells. The machine bought for ₹42 lakh in 2011 has not been in working condition since 2017. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjeet Kaur said, “It is a very effective machine and fresh white blood cells extracted from the donor and administered to the patients show great results. However, due many hiccups, there were no takers for the procedure. Firstly, overhead cost of the procedure was roughly about ₹9,000 and then the persons opting for the procedure had to look for donors. Majority of the patients opted for white blood cells available with the blood bank. Due lack of usage, the machine faced maintenance issues. However, we have roped in an engineer and hopefully it will start functioning again.”‘Rising cases also indicator of more testing’The dengue cases, which were under control till September, have spiraled in the month of October. As many as 643 dengue cases have been reported in the district in the past 25 days whereas the month of September saw 151 cases of mosquito bite. While 23 cases were registered in August, eight were logged in July and two in June.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the rising cases were also an indicator of more testing. “Soon after taking charge, I had convened a meeting of private hospital authorities and members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), asking them to share the details of patients who were turning positive in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), a parameter to detect dengue. There is no point in holding the information. It should be known so that timely intervention could be made and preventive measures be taken to avoid further spreading of the infection,” the doctor added. 124 beds earmarked for dengue patientsIn the wake of rising cases of dengue, the health department has increased the number of beds in government hospital across the district. According to civil surgeon Dr SP Singh, a total of 124 beds have been dedicated to dengue patients. In civil hospital alone, the number of beds has been increased from 12 to 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-infra-push-to-tackle-soaring-dengue-cases-101635360340507.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Balongi: ASI killed in road accident||A 41-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted with ADGP (internal security), Punjab, was killed in a road accident in Balongi on Tuesday evening.The deceased has been identified as Rajwant Singh, a resident of Kharar.Station house officer (SHO) Rajpal Singh Gill said that on Tuesday evening, Rajwant was going home on his motorcycle after work and when he reached Desu Majra, there was a traffic jam due to teachers’ protest. As he took a U-turn, a woman on a scooter hit his motorcycle and he fell down and sustained injuries. He was rushed to civil hospital in Kharar, where he was declared brought dead.The woman fled from the scene and due to darkness, the registration number of could not be noted down.A case has been registered against the unidentified woman under Sections 304A and 279 of Indian Penal Code against the unidentified woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/balongi-asi-killed-in-road-accident-101635360099258.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Corporator booked in Pune in cheating case||PUNE The Wanowrie police, on Wednesday, booked BJP corporator Dhanraj Ghogare and three others for cheating a contractor of ₹3 lakh, between August 2020 and October 2021. Besides Ghogare, the other accused have been identified as Suresh Telang, Vinod Mane Patil and a person identified only as Guddu. The complaint has been lodged by Nikhil Ratnakat Divse. Divse in his complaint said that he, along with his friend Vikrant Kamble, ran a firm on a partnership basis and was introduced to Ghogare who represents Ward No 25 in the PMC. Ghogare promised him a contract and demanded ₹3 lakh, which he alledly paid. Later, he did not get the work promised and asked for a refund. The corporator and three others abused him, the FIR stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporator-booked-in-pune-in-cheating-case-101635359679516.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Now, tablets with study material for visually impaired UP children||Lucknow: To enable visually impaired students in government-run primary and upper primary schools learn better, the Uttar Pradesh education department has teamed up with UNICEF to provide them tablets with pre-loaded audio learning content. First, the initiative will be rolled out in 14 districts of the state on a pilot basis, catering to 1206 visually impaired children. According to state advisor of Samagra Shiksha RN Singh, as per education department records, there were over 8,000 blind students in the state last year. A monitoring process is also being developed so that the children are able to get maximum benefit from this initiative. The tablets were expected to reach the children by the end of November 2021, said Ritwik Patra, education specialist, UNICEF, UP. The UNICEF office for Uttar Pradesh, in partnership with Samagra Shiksha, Uttar Pradesh and District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) Lucknow took the initiative to provide tablets with accessible software and bundled with accessible learning materials to 1206 children with total blindness identified from 14 districts of Devipatan, Gorakhpur and Lucknow divisions, he said. He said, “The children are identified through Mission Prerna’s SAMARTH programme. At present the tablets are being installed with accessible software. The features will be Artificial Intelligence with the daily use of the smartphone to give people with visual impairment more independence for their daily life activities, no-dependence of Internet connection and Hindi as a medium of operations.” Patra said, “(DIET, Lucknow is helping to develop accessible lessons for children with blindness. Text books of class 1-3 will be bundled with the tablets and the visually impaired children will be able to access these books through the accessible software.” “We are in the process of recording the literature and numerical aspects of books of class I to 3 that will be uploaded in the tablets. We have finalised the script and will begin recording in the next phase. Our aim is to conclude this exercise by the end of this year,” said Pawan Sachan, principal, DIET Lucknow. Patra said, ”We realised during the Covid-19 pandemic that children suffering from blindness remained excluded from the efforts made to continue teaching. Considering this we decided to take up this project.” He said, “Special educators of these 14 districts are being trained so that they can in turn train the children and parents while distributing the tablets. A monitoring process is also being developed so that the children are able to get maximum benefit from this initiative.” Chhavi Agarwal, assiatnt teacher of model primary school Vanpura Kashi Vidyapeeth, who is being trained under the initiative, said, “We are trying to make the best possible learning content for the students suffering from blindness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-tablets-with-study-material-for-visually-impaired-up-children-101635359619121.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||High court seeks time frame for setting up JJBs in all 11 Delhi districts||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought to know from the Delhi government the time frame for setting up Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs) in all the 11 districts in the city. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani also sought to know from the city government about the allocation of funds they have done in the last couple of years for JJBs in the city along with the amount disbursed.The court was hearing a criminal reference by the principal magistrate of the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB)-2, Delhi Gate, which concerns circumstances when a child in conflict with law (‘CCL’) also happens to be a child in need for care and protection (‘CNCP’).During the hearing, the court expressed concerns over the non-production of the CCL before a magistrate within 24 hours of the arrest.“The question is you can’t stage the hamlet without the Prince of Denmark. The Prince has to make his appearance. Once he is there, only then you can stage the hamlet. That is where it begins. You are saying that there is a problem with juvenile justice boards,” the court said.“What we have done so far is that there has to be appearance within 24 hours regardless of whether the juvenile is in safe custody of the board or guardian or kept in an observation home temporarily. Then within two weeks, the age related documents have to be obtained and furnished to the JJB. Then the board will make a call within two weeks apart from cases where ossification test is required which again has to be done within two weeks,” the court said.The bench also remarked that a society is judged on how it takes care of its children and if we are unable to do that, then “God helps us”.Advocate Nandita Rao, appearing for the Delhi government, informed the court about the institutions available for children and said that there are three types of homes under the Juvenile Justice Act.The court granted four weeks time to the city government to respond on various aspects and listed the matter for further hearing on December 14.Last month, the high court had directed the closure of all cases involving children arrested in petty crimes where the inquiry has been pending and remains inconclusive for a period longer than one year, regardless of whether such child or juvenile has been produced before the Juvenile Justice Boards in Delhi.Petty crimes under Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act are defined as those which entail a maximum imprisonment up to three years. These include offences such as assault, causing simple hurt, theft, forgery etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-seeks-time-frame-for-setting-up-jjbs-in-all-11-delhi-districts-101635359499192.html
28-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s active Covid case count drops by half on Wednesday; lower than Mumbai now||PUNE On Wednesday, the state health department reported that Pune district’s Covid-19 active cases dropped from 6,837 on Tuesday, to 3,984 on Wednesday. Pune now no longer is the district with the most active cases in the state, as Mumbai reported 4,993 active cases on Wednesday. Officials stated that as pending numbers were updated, Pune’s active cases count dropped drastically. As of Wednesday, Pune district reported 306 new Covid-19 cases and zero death due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.15 million, of which 1.13 million have recovered, with the death toll at 19,928. Pune also saw 42,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 131 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 364,972 and the death toll stood at 6,877 as no more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 100 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 520,521 and the death toll stands at 9,199, as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 75 new Covid-19 cases, and the progressive count went up to 268,449. The toll stands at 3,503 as no more deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-active-covid-case-count-drops-by-half-on-wednesday-lower-than-mumbai-now-101635359439101.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Diyas symbolise Diwali, crackers cause pollution: Delhi environment minister||The Delhi government launched its anti-firecracker campaign ‘Patake Nahi, Diye Jalao’ on Wednesday with the environment minister Gopal Rai lighting a series of diyas at his residence.He asked people to embrace tradition and eliminate pollution by celebrating the festival using earthen lamps instead of crackers. As part of the campaign, 15 teams will cover each of the 15 Delhi Police districts to identify instances of firecrackers being burst or sold leading up to Diwali. Each team will consist of five to seven members.The violators will be prosecuted under sections 188 and 286 of the IPC as well as under the Explosives Act – one which entails a jail term up to three years.The second component of the campaign involves reaching out to RWAs and market associations to discourage bursting of firecrackers, and instead urging people to learn to associate Diwali more with ‘diyas’.The Delhi government has also asked people to report instances of firecrackers being burst or sold by calling 112. All 157 police stations across Delhi have set up a dedicated team of two to deal with firecracker related issues.“The Delhi government appeals to all the people of Delhi to celebrate Diwali using diyas and not crackers. Diye Se Diwali Hoti Hai; Patakhe Se Pradushan Hota Hai’ (Diwali is celebrated by lighting Diyas, crackers only cause pollution),” said Rai on Wednesday, stating before firecrackers existed, celebrations only consisted of lighting diyas.“Some people say that it is a matter of religion and culture, but I want to reiterate that it is not. It is a matter of saving lives. When the tradition of celebrating Diwali started in our culture, there was no existence of crackers. We lit diyas and celebrated it. We need to embrace these traditions to protect lives,” he added.On Karva Chauth, which was celebrated on Sunday, eight people were prosecuted by the Delhi Police for bursting firecrackers across the Capital, Rai then said.Last year, the Delhi government initially allowed green firecrackers to be burst or sold, but later cancelled those licences. This year, the government says a notification announcing the ban on crackers was issued to the police and district magistrates on September 28 itself, pre-empting the authorities issuing any licences to the traders.Large scale bursting of firecrackers, coupled with low temperatures, and stubble fires have caused hazardous levels of pollution in the city. Last year, despite the ban on crackers, Delhi recorded numerous violations on Diwali, as the overall PM 2.5 levels spiked up to 33 times the safe standard at locations such as Vivek Vihar in east Delhi.A senior environment department official said while the authority to penalise people lies with the police, the department will receive daily action taken reports from them every day.“Leading up to Diwali, efforts have been intensified to ensure no firecrackers are sold or burst anywhere,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/diyas-symbolise-diwali-crackers-cause-pollution-delhi-environment-minister-101635359379184.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC notice to Centre, cops on plea against traffic barricades||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and city police on a plea seeking removal of unnecessary mobile police barricades installed on city roads and in residential colonies.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the authorities on the plea by Jan Sewa Welfare Society against the alleged “menace of unmindful and erratic installation” of such barricades, pointing out that it is in violation of 2018 guidelines on its use.The plea further said that one of the reasons for huge traffic snarls in the city is the unnecessary barricading of roads by the police.“It is evident that mismanagement and unprofessional attitude of Delhi Police in installation of iron barricades on several roads all over Delhi causes grave hardship and inconvenience to the safety, security and welfare of the public. Many times installation of chained barricades on the roads have proved to be fatal,” the plea said.The plea said that according to the 2018 guidelines by Delhi Police, a mobile barricade installed in the night must have necessary fluorescent paint/reflective tapes and blinkers so that they are visible from far.It also said that the staff deployed on these points must also wear specially designed fluorescent jackets while performing duties at night.“Placement of barricades by police stations should have the prior approval of at least the ACP so that these are not placed at points which cause traffic congestion or unnecessary inconvenience,” said the guidelines, as quoted from the petition.It added that the barricades should be positioned in such a manner that when the traffic slows down for checking, heavy vehicles should not have difficulty moving.“While the checking of vehicles is of prime importance, the safety of staff as well as of road users is also equally important. Placement/distance of one barricade from another be done in such a manner that the staff performing duties can protect themselves in case of any speeding or dangerously driven vehicle hits the barricades,” it said.“While alignment of barricades should be done in such a way as to ensure that traffic slows down for checking, at the same time it should not be placed in a manner that they cannot be negotiated, especially by heavy vehicles,” it addedCentral government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted the notice on behalf of the Union government.The matter will now be heard on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-notice-to-centre-cops-on-plea-against-traffic-barricades-101635359020689.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks clarity on age checks for liquor home delivery scheme||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought to know from the Delhi government how it would ensure that liquor is not home-delivered to a minor.A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh asked the government the details of the process while hearing a plea by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma challenging the government’s doorstep delivery of liquor scheme. “How will you verify the age of the purchaser? You must answer this query. You cannot say you will not answer this,” the court said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra said that there will be provisions in place such as Aadhaar number or other age proof. According to a new policy, the legal age to consume liquor in Delhi is 21 years.Verma’s plea contended that the new policy was introduced at a time when the national capital was “still grappling with the deadly second wave (of Covid-19) and acute shortage of medicines and vaccinations”, and also overlooked the impact of bringing alcohol into households with domestic and child abuse.Defending the government’s home delivery of liquor scheme, Mehra said that the scheme existed even before the New Excise Policy 2021 came into effect and only its mode has changed.“Before the amendment, the provision was that if an order came by email or fax, it could have been delivered. Now there is an amendment that says that instead of email or fax, on the mobile, or through an application on social media, it can be done. The method and mode have been changed. This (delivery of liquor) has been a part of the provision from the last 20-30 years and has existed even earlier,” Mehra argued.The counsel representing BJP leader Verma said they have challenged the provision as there is no process of age surveillance in the scheme, and liquor could very well be delivered to an underage person at a public place.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Delhi government, said even if a person goes out to purchase alcohol, he will bring it home so the impact on children would be the same.The court asked for the Delhi government to place its reply on record and listed the plea for hearing on November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-clarity-on-age-checks-for-liquor-home-delivery-scheme-101635358659154.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Doctor promised kidney donor, duped of ₹10 lakh in Delhi||The Delhi Police crime branch on Wednesday said they arrested two men for allegedly duping a Mumbai-based surgeon of ₹10 lakh by claiming to arrange a kidney donor for him in Delhi. The police said the two cheated at least five other people in Delhi and other states, including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, using the same modus operandi.They were part of an organised racket that was in touch with over 50 people who needed medical treatment in Delhi. At least two suspects in the case are on the run, the police said.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar said that they arrested the two men after investigating a cheating case registered on the complaint of Mumbai surgeon Dr Rajiv Chandra, who was duped of ₹10 lakh by the racketeers. Chandra is suffering from congenital kidney disease, for which he needed a transplant. However, none of the doctor’s relatives could donate a kidney, said the joint CP.Chandra came across an advertisement that offered a kidney donor and transplant at a leading hospital in Delhi. His friend contacted one Karan, who promised to arrange a kidney donor and said the transplant would cost ₹22 lakh. The doctor paid ₹4.5 lakh in advance and paid another ₹5.5 lakh on September 16. After taking the money, Karan switched off his phone and fled. “We found that Karan’s real name was Vipin Kumar. We laid a trap and arrested him on October 19 from Kanpur. His interrogation led to the arrest of his associate, Rohit Kumar Yadav, from Pratapgarh in UP,” the joint CP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctor-promised-kidney-donor-duped-of-10-lakh-in-delhi-101635358479518.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Bedridden for a year, elderly couple hang selves at south Delhi home||An elderly couple, who was bedridden for the past year after suffering multiple fractures in a road accident, allegedly killed themselves at their home in south Delhi’s Kalkaji Extension on Wednesday, police said.The couple, aged 74 and 69, retired as teachers from Delhi University several years ago.Police said they found two suicide notes in which the couple said they were ending their lives because they were bedridden.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey said that on Wednesday around 3.45pm, a woman informed the police that her parents had taken their lives at home.A police team reached the house and met the caller, who told them that her parents were bedridden and lived by themselves. The caller lived with her family in a different area in south Delhi. She had hired a caretaker for themThe police said that around 2.30pm, the caretaker went to the couple’s house and rang the doorbell several times but nobody responded. The caretaker panicked and informed the couple’s daughter. She immediately arrived and broke the lock with the caretaker’s help. They entered the house and found the couple dead, the police said.“A team inspected the place and found two suicide notes on a table. The bodies were handed over to the family after an autopsy. No foul play was suspected,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bedridden-for-a-year-elderly-couple-hang-selves-at-south-delhi-home-101635358180250.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||All south Delhi wards to get primary health care centre, civic agency says||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has approved a proposal for setting up primary health care facilities in civic wards which still have no such units, even as a few officials pointed out that the shortage of health workers may pose a hurdle in staffing these new units.Col (retd) BK Oberoi, the standing committee chairman, said that primary health care facilities, like dispensaries and mother and child welfare (MCW) centres, can be accommodated in existing municipal buildings such as community halls and office complexes. “In the first phase, we have taken up 10 such wards for setting up health care units. Every left out ward needs to be covered,” the chairman said.Among the areas identified for the project are Sagarpur, Mohan Garden, Tughlaqabad extension, Goyla Dairy and Keshopur. A senior official from the health department said that some of the dispensaries will be set up in porta cabins or modified shipping containers due to space constraints.According to the Centre’s urban primary health care centre guidelines, the civic body will require at least one doctor, one pharmacist, one ward nurse and two multi-task workers for each unit.“The total financial implication in terms of recurring costs for each dispensary will be around ₹58.5 lakh per annum. For the time being, eight dispensaries and two primary health care centres are being opened. The primary concern will be shortage of healthcare staff,” said a senior municipal official, requesting anonymity.The new policy, which was cleared by the standing committee of the south MCD on Tuesday, calls for alternating some staff in nearby health centres as an interim measure to tackle the staff crunch. It also said the hospital administration department is planning a separate proposal for creation of new posts such as doctors, pharmacists and nurses to meet the staff shortfall.The staff and financial crunch had come to the fore earlier when the civic body was unable to expand its services in its Kalkaji colony hospital.Pointing to the shortage of doctors, funds and land, Prem Chauhan, the leader of the opposition, said that the civic body should coordinate with the Delhi government. “There are wards which are full of unauthorised colonies and the municipal corporation owns no land in such areas. Who will bear the additional financial burden? The civic body will later argue that the government is not providing them funds,” he said.Last month, municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti pointed out that setting up new healthcare facilities without creating new posts may not be an easy. “Any additional requirement of health staff while operationalising new facilities puts an undue pressure on the department and hampers the normal day-to-day functioning of existing healthcare facilities. The department has to mobilise staff from existing units on alternate days as interim arrangement. Consequently, the quality of services gets compromised,” he said in a letter to the standing committee on September 14, 2021.Col (retd) Oberoi said the civic body will tackle the problems. “In the interim, the corporation will divert health workers from nearby health care centres and ask them to alternate between the two centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-south-delhi-wards-to-get-primary-healthcare-centres-civic-agency-says-101635358120560.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Only e-buses will be added to city fleet in future: Kailash Gahlot||Delhi will only procure electric buses in the future, with an aim to increase the share of zero-emission vehicles in public transport to over 50%, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday.In an interview with Hindustan Times, Gahlot said the Delhi government will order 800 CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) buses in two batches — 450 in the first and 350 in the second — to replace cluster buses, which have reached their end of life.“These will be the last batches of CNG buses that the Delhi government will procure. After that, we have decided to procure only electric buses for public transport,” Gahlot said.Delhi currently has a fleet of 6,793 buses, of which 3,760 are run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and 3,033 are operated by the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) Limited through the state transport department.
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: In first for the season, temp below 15°C as AQI worsens||The mercury fell below the 15-degree Celsius mark on Wednesday morning for the first time this winter, with the minimum temperature recorded at 14.6 degrees Celsius — two notches below normal — as Delhi’s air quality deteriorated sharply in the last 24 hours, and was expected to get over the rest of the week.Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 232 (poor), from Tuesday’s reading of 139 (moderate), largely owing to a rise in farm fires across the northern plains as the contribution of stubble burning in Delhi’s overall PM 2.5 concentration touched a season high of 16%, data from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) showed.Safar, which comes under the Union ministry of earth sciences, has forecast that the air quality will further deteriorate “rapidly” in the next 24 hours to touch “very poor” by Thursday, and then hit the higher end of the “very poor” category by Friday.“Delhi’s AQI is in the ‘poor’ category. The effective fire count of stubble burning in the northwest region of Delhi is 656 and its share in PM2.5 is 16% as transport level winds are north westerly. AQI is now forecasted to deteriorate rapidly and slip to the ‘very poor’ category by Thursday and deteriorate further to the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category by Friday,” SAFAR said on Wednesday, stating that calm local winds, along with highly favourable transport-level winds (northwesterly winds that will bring pollution from Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi) are expected to enhance stubble-burning related intrusion.“Any increase in fire counts in the next three days would increase the finer particle levels of Delhi,” it added.Prior to Wednesday, the highest contribution of stubble burning in Delhi’s air was 15% on October 21.Two stations – Shadipur and Anand Vihar were in the “very poor” category, with readings of 316 and 313 respectively.An AQI between 51 and 100 is classified as “satisfactory”, between 101 and 200 is “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, and between 301 and 400 is “very poor”. An AQI over 401 is meanwhile classified as “severe” by the Central Pollution Control Board. The Capital’s air quality deteriorates to hazardous levels every winter, plunging the city into a public health emergency.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) says while a delayed monsoon has helped control pollution spikes, historical data shows an episodic smog event is generally seen in late-October and early November, coinciding with stubble burning peaks and Diwali.“With the current meteorological conditions, we may see another such event before or around Diwali and the exposure to air pollution during this period is at its peak. With Covid-19 still around, as a community, we may have to avoid exposure to outside air and this is generally seen each year when regulatory agencies ask people to avoid stepping out or exercising during smog events,” she said.Safdarjung,Delhi’s base station recorded a maximum temperature of 28.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday – three notches below normal, while the minimum was recorded at 14.6 degrees. Mayur Vihar recorded the lowest maximum temperature on Wednesday at 26.8 degrees, while the lowest minimum across Delhi was 14.1 degrees Celsius at Mungeshpur.A Met official says local winds are becoming calm at night, which coincides with a drop in temperature, leading to a spike in pollution late at night and in the morning. “Following the rain, there is also moisture in the air and you are now seeing a slight haze at night. Calm winds mean the contribution from stubble burning and local pollutants are now becoming trapped and similar conditions are expected in the next few days,” said the official who asked not to be named.IMD has forecast the minimum temperature to remain around 14 degrees Celsius for the next two days, and said it could dip to 13 degrees by Saturday.The maximum temperature, meanwhile, is expected to remain below 30 degrees till the end of the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-mercury-falls-below-15-bad-air-rises-101635357399383.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP asks Cong why it is not expelling Capt||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh on Wednesday asked the Congress high command why it was silent and not expelling former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who was speaking the language of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), from the party. In a statement issued here, the AAP leader claimed that Amarinder was speaking in favour of the BJP with the consent of the Congress. “He (former CM) is the proof of the Congress and the BJP’s double standard. The two parties are working in collusion and the Shiormani Akali Dal (SAD) is also part of the same group,” he alleged. Taking a dig at the former chief minister, Jarnail said the people of Punjab had witnessed the false promises and works of Singh for four-and-a-half-years. “The Congress cannot put everything on him and wash its hands off as it was equally responsible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-asks-cong-why-it-is-not-expelling-capt-101635356198151.html
28-10-2021||Patna||Former CM takes on Nitish Kumar in first rally since return to Bihar||At his first election rally in six years, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad on Wednesday was unsparing in his attacks at arch rival and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, accusing him of forming the government after 2020 assembly polls in the state by deceit.“People of Bihar had made Tejashwi the chief minister. But Nitish Kumar formed government through cheating and manipulation. Had I not been outside the state, it would not have happened,” he said at Idgah Maidan in Tarapur assembly constituency, where voting for bypoll is scheduled for October 30, along with Kushweshwar Asthan.Lalu Prasad, who returned to Bihar last Sunday, has been away from the state since December 2017, when he was convicted and jailed in Jharkhand in connection with the fodder scam cases. He last campaigned in an election during the 2015 assembly poll, which RJD and CM Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) fought in alliance.RJD and JD (U) are ranged against each other in bypolls for two assembly seats, both won in 2020 by the JD (U), in a fight that has become triangular after Congress too decided to field candidates from both seats.Training his guns at Kumar, the former chief minister said, “I had said ensure visarjan (immersion) for the NDA government. Now, Nitish is saying I can get him shot. Why will I do it? He will himself die.”The RJD chief, who flew to Tarapur on a helicopter, also addressed a meeting at Kushweshwar Asthan in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-in-his-first-rally-in-6-years-lalu-rips-into-nitish-101635350198477.html
28-10-2021||Lucknow||Anti-India slogans: Three Kashmiri students arrested in Agra||Agra Three Kashmiri students booked for raising anti-national slogans after India-Pak match in T 20 World Cup on Sunday were arrested by Agra police on Wednesday evening. The arrest followed an FIR registered against them at Jagdishpura police station of Agra last night on the complaint of BJP Yuva Morcha leader Gaurav Rajawat. “Three Kashmiri students from Bichpuri campus of Raja Balwant Singh (RBS) Engineering College in Agra were arrested on Wednesday evening. A case has been registered against all three at Jagdishpura police station under section 153A (promoting enmity and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 505(1)(b) (inducing to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquility) of the Indian Penal Code, besides Section 66F (cyber terrorism) of Information Technology (Amended) Act 2008,” informed PK Singh, the inspector in charge of Jagdispura police station of Agra. According to the FIR registered at Jagdishpura police station, the complainant Gaurav Rajawat alleged that these three Kashmiri students had raised anti -national slogans like “Bharat desh ke tukde honge” and praised Pakistan by raising slogans of ‘Pakistan Zindabad”. “These three students from Kashmir had shared anti-national chats on social media. This reflects that they have bad intentions of causing lawlessness in the country by disturbing the peace and tranquility of nation and so they should face legal consequences,” said Rajawat. The matter was under investigation, said police sources. Meanwhile, protests were held by right wing organizations at Collectorate and action was sought against the three students. In another development, the management of RBS College closed all its seven institution to protest ‘anarchy’ by student groups led by BJP Yuva Morcha. “College authorities had acted once the matter came to their notice on Monday. These three students from Kashmir were questioned and written clarification was sought regarding exchange of anti-national chats social media after the match result. The trio was also suspended from the hostel as part of disciplinary action,” informed Ashish Shukla, chief proctor, RBS Engineering Technical Campus. “Yet outsiders created ruckus on Bichpuri campus of RBS Engineering Technical College on Tuesday and marred the reputation of the college known for its academic excellence. As a protest, all institutions of RBS College are being closed for an indefinite period,” informed Shukla. Demand for action against ‘outsiders’ was raised by principal and faculty members of RBS College through a press note issued on Wednesday. It may be recalled that members of BJP Yuva Morcha had reached Bichpuri campus on Tuesday and had demanded action against Kashmiri students. These activists had verbal exchanges with college authorities. The college authorities maintained that they had acted against the Kashmiri students who were admitted under PMSSS (Prime Minister Special Scholarship Scheme) through AICTE but the activists of BJP Yuva Morcha sought tougher action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/antiindia-slogans-case-registered-against-three-kashmiri-students-in-agra-101635347438750.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s doorstep delivery project to add 300 services by March 2022||The Delhi government is planning to expand the services under its doorstep delivery scheme from the current 100 to around 400 by early next year, according to senior government officials and documents seen by HT.The government has issued a tender to hire an agency to provide manpower to help with deliveries and enable expansion of the project, the officials said.According to the tender document issued on October 22, “The government of Delhi is delivering 100 various services under the project (of) doorstep delivery of pubic services to its citizens at their doorsteps, and in future plans to add about 300 more services. For this purpose, an agency is required for providing field staff / mobile sahayaks.”It mentioned that the government plans to open bids on November 22.The project currently involves delivery of birth certificates, caste certificates, income certificates and drivers’ licence among others. After expansion, it plans to include widow pension, financial assistance meant for construction workers under the Welfare Board, school leaving certificates, transfer certificates, and other documents, said a senior government official, adding: “By March 2022, the project should have 400 services -- covering all aspects of public dealing and governance.”The project was launched in September 2018 with 30 public services such as delivery of caste certificates, marriage certificate, birth certificates, and drivers’ licence. In 2019, the government added 70 more public services to the list, taking the total to 100. The government planned to add more services in 2020 and 2021, but couldn’t extend it because of the Covid-19 pandemic.To avail the services, a citizen has to call the 1076.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-doorstep-delivery-project-to-add-300-services-by-march-2022-101635328717133.html
28-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA allows Chhath Puja celebrations at select spots||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday allowed the celebration of Chhath Puja in public at designated places with Covid-19 protocols in place, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.“Covid-19 cases in Delhi are significantly low for a while now. Experts are also of the opinion that Chhath Puja celebrations can be allowed with some strict protocols in place. It can be celebrated only at designated spots with strict adherence to social distancing and other Covid-19 regulations. It is a major festival for a large number of Delhi residents celebrate,” said Sisodia at a press briefing after attending a meeting of the DDMA.The DDMA, which lays down or eases restrictions in place to curb the spread of Covid-19, banned the festival at public places including on the banks of the Yamuna and temples, on September 30, evoking sharp political reactions.This year, Chhath Puja will be celebrated on November 10, six days after Diwali. It is a community festival involving worship of the Sun and taking dips in a water body. It is celebrated by people from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, collectively called the Poorvanchal region.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on October 14 wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal urging him to allow Chhath Puja celebrations with adherence to Covid-19 protocol. Baijal is DDMA chairperson.On October 12, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to the Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, urging the Centre to issue guidelines for the Chhath festival as soon as possible following consultation with health experts.Public Chhath Puja celebrations were prohibited last year too .The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was protesting against restrictions on Chhath Puja celebrations and organised several protests in the last three weeks.Reacting to the DDMA decision, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta tweeted (in Hindi), “The struggle by BJP4Delhi has succeeded. DDMA and Delhi lieutenant governor has allowed Chhath Puja celebrations. Congratulations and best wishes to all Delhi residents, especially the Puvanchalis.”In the last decade, Chhath has become one of the major festivals in Delhi with the Purvanchalis -- people belonging to areas known as the Purvanchal -- accounting for over one-third of Delhi’s population of around 20 million, according to government estimates and migration data from Census 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-allows-chhat-puja-at-designated-places-with-strict-protocols-101635327757113.html
28-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will form a new party, EC to clear name and symbol, says Captain||Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday confirmed that he is forming a new political party in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year, as first reported by Hindustan Times on October 2.“Yes, I am forming a party. My lawyers are working on it. I can tell you the name once the Election Commission approves it. We have made a request for the symbol also,” Singh said at a press conference in Chandigarh that was telecast live on his social media handle.The announcement comes a little over a month since the two-time chief minister stepped down on September 18, after being pushed into a corner by the Congress party’s leadership which first appointed cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Sidhu as president of the state unit of the party against Singh’s wishes, and then summoned a meeting of legislators to remove Singh as chief minister.The party chose Charanjit Singh Channi as its chief minister; elections in the state are due early next year.“We will explore seat adjustment with the Bharatiya Janata Party and breakaway factions of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) but there will be no alliance,” clarified. He also suggested that some leaders from the Congress were in touch but said “I can’t tell you the names.”Singh said he will be meeting Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday to discuss a resolution of the standoff with farmers over the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Farmers have been protesting the laws since November last year.Even as the former chief minister was speaking, Sidhu took to Twitter to reiterate the support of Punjab Congress MLAs for the current dispensation and to criticise Singh.“We, the 78 MLAs of the Congress, could never imagine, what we received was an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal chief minister of Punjab @capt_amarinder...who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling justice and development of Punjab,” Sidhu tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-former-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-will-launch-own-party-101635315575745.html
