29-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD constitution forgery: Hoshiarpur court summons former CM Badal||Hoshiarpur additional chief judicial magistrate Rupinder Singh has summoned former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in a case of alleged forgery of the constitution of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). SAD patriarch Badal was on Thursday asked to appear before the court on November 28. His son, Sukhbir Singh Badal, who is the SAD president, and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema have already got bail in the case. According to a directive of November 4, 2019, on the plea of complainant Balwant Singh Khera, Badal, Sukhbir and Cheema were to be summoned. Sukhbir and Cheema have already appeared. “Let accused Parkash Singh Badal be summoned on November 28,” the court order concluded. Complainant cites SAD’s ‘panthic’ activities Khera, a social activist, had complained that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that it had submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political outfit. He alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism, whereas it continued its activities as a ‘panthic’ party and openly participated in gurdwara elections. Sufficient evidence against Badals: HC On August 27, the Punjab and Haryana high court disposed of a petition by the SAD against the proceedings of the Hoshiarpur court, saying there was sufficient evidence before the judicial magistrate to summon Badal, Sukhbir and Cheema on their undertakings regarding the party’s constitution. “Sufficient material has come on record wherein contrary stands have been taken regarding the constitution of the political party and whether it has adopted the principles of secularism or is still a religious party. It has also come on record that the SAD has been contesting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee elections,” the high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia observed. The SAD leaders had approached the high court in 2019, seeking a stay on the trial after the Hoshiarpur additional chief judicial magistrate summoned them in the case. The high court stayed the trial. Badal approaches SC against HC order Badal filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against the Punjab and Haryana high court order dismissing his petition seeking quashing of the complaint filed by Khera in the Hoshiarpur court, besides rejecting the prayer to set aside the summoning order of November 2019 and stay the proceedings of the Hoshiarpur court. The SC is yet to take up the matter for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-constitution-forgery-hoshiarpur-court-summons-former-cm-badal-101635532194520.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi in Delhi again, meets Soni, Maken||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi travelled to Delhi again on Friday to meet Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni and other central leaders of the Congress to discuss the political scenario in the state ahead of assembly polls. Channi was accompanied by Harish Chaudhary, the newly appointed in-charge of Punjab affairs, and Mohammad Mustafa, principal strategic adviser to state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. They first met Soni and discussed the election strategy and related issues, a party leader privy to discussions said. The CM later met Congress treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal and All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan affairs Ajay Maken, who was one of the two observers sent by the central leadership for the appointment of the new chief minister following the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh. Bansal termed it a courtesy call. “When politicians meet, there is obviously a discussion on politics,” he said, refusing to go into specifics. Channi on Thursday met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi amid apprehensions about the fallout of his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh’s plans to form a separate party in next few days. The CM’s frequent flying visits to Delhi have drawn flak from the opposition. The Shiormani Akali Dal (SAD) said the (Congress) infighting was costing the state exchequer. “Since when are Congressmen are entitled to choppers? CM@CharanjitChanni flying to Delhi with state in charge @Barmer_Harsih & @sherryontopp strategic advisor @MohdMustafaips to discuss internal matters with Ambika Soni on taxpayers’ money,” the opposition party tweeted. Earlier, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also took a dig at the CM’s frequent trips to the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-in-delhi-again-meets-soni-maken-101635532075693.html
29-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Man held for posing with sub-inspector’s revolver, cop suspended||A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly posing with a sub-inspector’s revolver at a police check point in the jurisdiction of Expressway police station. The suspect was identified as Nagesh, a resident of Yakutpur village. Police said he frequently visited the check post and was known to the sub-inspector Umesh Kumar, who has been suspended. Yatendra Kumar, station house officer of Expressway police station, said a video was making the rounds on social media on Friday, in which a man was seen moving around a police check post with the revolver in his belt. “We scanned the video and identified that the police check post was in Sector 168. We questioned the check post in-charge and sub-inspector Kumar in this regard,” he said. Kumar revealed that on Thursday morning, he had placed the gun on the table and went to the washroom. “In his absence, the suspect reached the check post, picked up the gun and hung it in his belt,” said the SHO. The sub inspector got his revolver back but someone recorded Nagesh with the revolver. The video then went viral on social networking sites. Police said a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 7 and 25 of the Arms Act. “He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The sub-inspector has been suspended for negligence,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-held-for-posing-with-sub-inspector-s-revolver-cop-suspended-101635532016604.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Bullet train: Bids invited for 20-km underground tunnel||In what could be termed as a major development on the ambitious Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor, the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) on Friday invited bids for the construction of the 20.37-km underground tunnel, including a 7-km part under the sea between Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and Shilphata in Thane, for the route. The bids for the tunnel work have to be submitted by March and the construction work is likely to begin by the end of next year.The underground tunnel will be a single-tube twin track of 13.1m diameter, which will start from BKC and end at Shilphata. Of the 20.37km, 15.42km of tunnelling work will be carried out with three tunnel-boring machines (TBM) and the remaining 4.96km will be carried out with a new Austrian tunnelling method.“NHSRCL has invited bids for the tunnelling work of 21km. The package is open to Japanese and Indian companies,” said a senior NHSRCL official.In order to complete the work in the stipulated time, three shafts have been planned. The depth of the tunnel will vary from 25-40 metres. The tunnel will cross Thane creek. The survey works under the creek was conducted by underwater static refraction technique and was successfully completed.The work on the underground sea tunnel is critical and had begun in December 2017, wherein a team of engineers from NHSRCL and Rail India Technical and Economic Service Ltd, and Japan’s Kawasaki Geological Engineering studied data on the seabed, based on geo-technical surveys. The study was conducted to understand the structure and depth of the seabed of Thane Creek and based on the report the alignment of the tunnel was fixed.The 508.17-km-long Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor project work commenced in 2017. The work on the project was initially aimed to be completed by 2023. The estimated cost of the project is ₹110,000 crore, of which ₹88,000 crore will be funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).The project is facing hurdles owing to land acquisition issues, mostly in Maharashtra. Of the 508.17km for the project, 155.76km is in Maharashtra, 384.04km in Gujarat and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor will have stations at Bandra-Kurla Complex (terminal on Mumbai-end of the corridor), Thane, Virar, Boisor, Vapi, Billimora, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad and Sabarmati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bullet-train-bids-invited-for-20-km-underground-tunnel-101635531954392.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC adjourns cases listed in November for March-May||The Punjab and Haryana high court has adjourned cases listed in November for hearing between March and May next year in view of Covid pandemic.An official said the decision to adjourn the cases was taken on the basis of government advisories and opinion of medical and administrative experts and to ensure safety of judges, staff and litigants.The official said the cases of anticipatory bails, regular bails and protection to life and liberty and premature release etc won’t be adjourned and would be taken up on fixed dates. The cases filed in 2021 and listed in “urgent category” also won’t be adjourned. The cases in which advancing of hearing was allowed this year also won’t be adjourned, the official said, adding that the cases listed after July 1, 2021, will also not be adjourned. The official further added that in case of urgency, a litigant can move an application for advancing the hearing in already filed cases. Interim orders passed also would stand extended in adjourned matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-adjourns-cases-listed-in-november-for-marchmay-101635531896149.html
29-10-2021||Other||2 arrested in Kashmir after NIA conducts raids at 8 places in terror conspiracy case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested two more people after conducting raids at eight locations in Kashmir in a terror conspiracy case filed on October 10, officials said. The agency conducted searches in Srinagar, Sopore and Baramulla.In a statement, the agency said that during searches they arrested two more persons namely Amir Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Srinagar, and Saddat Amin alias Syed Arhan, a resident of north Kashmir’s Sopore.“Searches conducted today led to the recovery of electronic devices and incriminating documents/posters etc,” it said.So far, 23 people have been arrested in this case by the NIA.“Preliminary investigation has revealed that the arrested accused are terror associates/OGWs of various proscribed terrorist organisations and have been providing logistical and material support to terrorists,” the statement said.The case relates to conspiracy for undertaking violent terrorist acts in Jammu and Kashmir and other major cities by cadres of proscribed organisations Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr among similar other outfits and their affiliates, including The Resistance Front (TRF) and People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF).The agency registered the case on October 10 to look into the ‘hatching of conspiracy both physically and in cyberspace for undertaking violent terror acts in J&K and in other cities including New Delhi by LeT, JeM, HM, Al-Badr and their affiliates TRF and PAFF’. The case was registered after a series of targeted attacks against civilians in Kashmir.On October 20, the NIA arrested four alleged terrorist associates and over-ground workers (OGWs) after conducting raids across 11 locations in Kashmir in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-arrested-in-kashmir-after-nia-conducts-raids-at-8-places-in-terror-conspiracy-case-101635531894843.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 31 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Friday reported 31 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,02,349, according to a media bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality, the death toll reached 16,557. The state reported the positivity rate of 0.09 %, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, seven were registered in Rupnagar, five in Mohali and four in Amritsar. The lone death in the state was reported in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said. The state reported 253 active cases. With 25 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 585539, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-31-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101635531774434.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to reopen: Tiffin preps and alarms are back, say parents||It’s been a long year-and-a-half for students since schools first shut down due to Covid-19. However, as Delhi returns to normalcy, schools in the city are ready to welcome back students for in-person classes after November 1. And while students and parents see this as a welcome change, returning to the traditional schooling routine will be no child’s play. From having to wake up early to getting kids (and themselves) back in a routine will be tricky, feel parents of school going kids in the Capital. For Model Town resident Ankita Sarda, this means the end of a flexible lifestyle. “Now, we’ll have to start following a strict routine. The kids’ sleep timings were flexible so far but now early bedtime has to be in place. My morning workouts would be replaced by lunch box preparation and getting my kid ready for school! But yes, I can plan my day better now that school will reopen and I won’t have to be restricted to the house all day,” says the mother of a second grader and a toddler. And while preparing tiffin is one task, deciding what to make, is another! Geeta Verma, an entrepreneur from Patparganj, whose daughter attends the sixth grade, says, “Thinking of what to make for lunch is as it is tough and now this would have to be done early morning as I would have to pack it for my daughter! Abhi toh jab bhi bhook lagti thi, I would cook something for her.” Nidhi Dhull, an advocate and social activist from Saket, feels that schools opening will again make holidays feel special for her son, who is in the first standard. “Children will enjoy the charm of holidays once again, after a long time. My son is excited to meet his classmates face-to-face. Finally, this will give me free hours during the day for some me time,” she says.Along with some personal time, getting back to work with more focus is also a possibility now. Anandika Leekha Tandon, mother of a five-year-old and a businesswoman from Sarvodaya Enclave shares, “I’m glad we’ll be able to get back to work full-time once the kids go back to school.” However, for some parents, schools reopening also means making sure their kids keep up with their peers. “We were taking it slow initially, as we were getting used to the online setup. We thought it was all too much to take for the kids during the lockdown. So last year, we didn’t attend classes properly. This was when she was in KG. She’s in first grade now and have a lot to catch up on,” says Garima Sharma, a homemaker from Model Town.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-tiffin-preps-and-alarms-are-back-say-parents-101635531730258.html
29-10-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to repair master drain to solve waterlogging woes of Old Gurugram||With an aim to solve waterlogging problems of different areas near the Railway Road, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to repair the damaged master stormwater drain at a cost of around ₹15 crore. The repair work is likely to start in December and will be completed before the next monsoon season, said officials. The officials said that the drain got damaged between Umang Bharadwaj Chowk and Basai Chowk while construction of a flyover at Basai and a railway overbridge at Railway Road. “The master drain was dismantled during the construction of the flyover and the rail overbridge. Once the drain is redeveloped, it will help solve waterlogging problems in Old Gurugram, especially areas like Hero Honda, Umang Bharadwaj Chowk, Basai, sectors 9, 9A, and 10 till Civil Lines. This monsoon season, we had to deploy additional pumps to drain out water from the surface drain, which was not sufficient compared to the amount of rainfall received,” said Vikram Singh, executive engineer from infrastructure-2 division of GMDA, who is working on the project. Around 1,530 metres of the drain was damaged during the development works, the officials said, adding the repair work is likely to start by end-November or in December. During this monsoon, waterlogging was reported from various parts of the city due to heavy rainfall. Some of the worst-affected areas were Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, Sohna Road, Sector 9, Sector 10, Gurugram bus depot, CH Baktawar Singh Road, and Rajiv Chowk. The authority had last year identified 20 critical waterlogging points, which included many areas in Old Gurugram, where damage to this stormwater drain was a primary reason for waterlogging. MD Goel, a resident of Khushboo Apartments in Sector 9A, said, “Areas around our society get waterlogged even if it rains for half an hour. With the repair of this drain, the situation might improve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-repair-master-drain-to-solve-waterlogging-woes-of-old-gurugram-101635531594389.html
29-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: RWAs need civic body’s permission for hosting Diwali fairs||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday issued a notice to all the resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city, directing them to take its permission for organising Diwali fairs or any other public events during the upcoming festival season.The notice issued six days before Diwali, which will be celebrated this year on November 4, is the first such directive issued by the civic body since its formation in 2008.“It is mandatory to take permission from the corporation for organising any type of public events, including Diwali mela (fair) in the city. If any society or organisation conducts such events without permission, then action will be taken against them under the Haryana Municipal Act 1994, fire safety norms, and solid waste management rules, among other relevant laws,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner (headquarters), MCG.Attri said that during Diwali fairs and other festival events, a lot of waste is generated, fire safety norms are violated, and advertisements are displayed without any prior approval. Hence, the MCG has issued the directive to ensure norms are adhered to, he said.The notice was issued to the resident bodies of all condominiums and gated colonies, the officials said. Although Attri did not specify the actions which can be taken for violation of the directive, a senior MCG official privy to the matter said, “The Haryana Fire Safety Act and the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act allow the MCG to seal and close down events being organised without its permission. In case there is a fire, criminal action can also be taken against the organiser or RWA.”The MCG’s directive has evoked a mixed response from RWAs.Jyoti Ahuja, administrator, RWAs United, a group of 77 RWAs, said that the MCG’s directive has left RWAs with a little time period to procure requisite permissions.“The MCG should have issued the notice a month ago. By now, most RWAs would have done their venue bookings, while stalls would have also been booked. With just six days left for Diwali, including the weekend when government offices will be closed, it will be very difficult for most RWAs to procure the licences in time,” said Ahuja.Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson for Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said that the move may lead to lower turnout and help RWAs maintain Covid-19 norms.“If a licence is compulsory from the MCG for holding public events in residential areas, it can prove to be a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 norms. The directive to take permission from MCG is an important step, especially due to the possibility of third Covid-19 wave,” said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-rwas-need-civic-body-s-permission-for-hosting-diwali-fairs-101635531539501.html
29-10-2021||Gurugram||Diesel generator sets banned under Grap in Haryana||A day after the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) issued directions banning the use of diesel generator sets in the National Capital Region keeping in view the deteriorating air quality, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Friday ordered all NCR districts of the state, including Gurugram, to follow the directions strictly. S Narayanan, member secretary of HSPCB, said, “We have issued orders to all NCR districts to follow the directions as air quality is likely to dip to ‘very poor’ category by next week. On October 1, we directed the power department to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to minimise the use of DG sets. No exemptions will be given as the power department has assured us that supply will be uninterrupted.” The CPCB on Thursday banned the use of diesel generator sets and ordered enhancing of parking fee by up to four times in Delhi-NCR, measures listed under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) when the air quality hits ‘very poor’.Though the air quality in Gurugram has been oscillating between ‘satisfactory’ and ‘poor’ categories over the past five days, pollution levels have increased fast during the period. On Friday, Gurugram recorded ‘poor’ air quality with an air quality index (AQI) value of 262, according to CPCB’s daily bulletin. Before this, the city reported ‘poor’ air quality on October 20, after which the air quality improved to ‘satisfactory’ on October 24, but again there was a sharp dip by Friday. The CPCB order to enforce the implementation of Grap measures under ‘very poor’ category came after a meeting by a sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas concluded that the air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to reach ‘very poor’ category in the coming days. The committee also said that the minimum temperature is likely to drop to 14-15°C with increased moisture, which is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. Besides ban on diesel gensets and increase in parking fee, other measures that will come into force include ban on the use of coal and wood in restaurants and open kitchens and augmentation of bus and Metro services. These measures will be in addition to the steps that were enforced on October 18 listed under ‘moderate to poor’ category such as ban on firecrackers, stopping burning of garbage, mechanised sweeping of roads, and sprinkling of water on unpaved roads, among others. Meanwhile, officials from the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said that they are prepared to give uninterrupted power supply to all residents in Gurugram. “We are trying to give uninterrupted power supply to all households across the district, except some areas where builders have not laid down the power infrastructure as per norms for providing connection and the issue is under consideration with the government,” said Naveen Kumar, chief engineer of DHBVN. Sherebanu Frosh, a resident and member of Warrior Moms said, “Putting a ban on diesel generator sets just during the winters will not solve the problem. Stopping the use of diesel gensets can cause problems to elderly residents. The condominiums where such sets are used can get the latest tech devices fitted to the sets which can reduce pollutants by almost 80%.”In December 2020, around 19 residential societies in both Gurugram and Faridabad were dependent on diesel generator sets for power supply, which was down from 209 in 2019. For this year, officials could not provide the numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/diesel-generator-sets-banned-under-grap-in-haryana-101635531534614.html
29-10-2021||Noida||Noida gets e-rickshaws at four metro stations for last mile connectivity||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and ETO Motors launched e-rickshaw services for last mile connectivity at Noida’s Electronic City metro station on Friday . In the first phase, 25 e-rickshaws will be made available at the metro stations of Noida Electronic City, Noida City Centre, Sector 62 and Sector 34 for commuting to neighbouring areas. The shared e-rickshaw will also help people in navigating to Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, said officials. Mangu Singh, managing director of DMRC, launched a fleet of e-rickshaws from Noida Electronic City metro station on Friday. “Along with providing metro rail connectivity to the people of Delhi-NCR, we aim to address the last mile connectivity challenges faced by commuters by providing clean, safe and shared services. This would play a major role in contributing towards a safe travel experience,” said Singh. These e-rickshaws will ply from 6am to 11pm daily from the four metro stations.N K Rawal, managing director of ETO Motors, said his company has a tie-up with the DMRC and similar e-rickshaw services are in place in Delhi. “We received good response at Delhi’s metro stations in Jamia Nagar, Shaheen Bagh and Sukhdev Vihar and hence we launched this service in Noida. These GPS enabled e-rickshaws are specially designed with a covered cabin and full front windscreen to provide last mile connectivity within an area of four to five kilometres around metro stations,” he said.The fares have been kept nominal at ₹10 for first two kilometres and ₹5 for every kilometre after the first two kilometres. The commuters can also book vehicles through the ETO app and pay in cash or through e-wallets for their rides. Charging stations have been put in place at the Electronic City Metro Station. Rawal said the company has also hired 10 women drivers in order to support women empowerment. Suman (28), a woman e-rickshaw driver, said an NGO had provided her training for driving heavy vehicles in Delhi. “I worked in Delhi for few years. Recently, someone informed me about the e-rickshaw driver’s job in Noida. I am happy to have been selected for driving the e-rickshaws here,” said Suman, who lives in Delhi’s Madanpur Khadar.The DMRC and ETO Motors plan to launch 1000 e-rickshaws and e-autos in Delhi-NCR by March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gets-e-rickshaws-at-four-metro-stations-for-last-mile-connectivity-101635531475579.html
29-10-2021||Gurugram||Municipal Corporation of Gurugram starts road repair works||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday commenced road repair works in sectors 4 and 10 ahead of the November 15 deadline that has been set by the municipal commissioner to fix roads across the city, officials said. “In compliance with the instructions of the municipal commissioner, officials have started repairing roads, and lifting garbage and construction and demolition waste across the city. On Tuesday, the municipal commissioner assigned responsibility to various officers for these works and gave instructions to complete the same by November 15,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued the directions during a meeting concerning the beautification of the city, the officials said. Last month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar issued a similar directive to agencies concerned in Gurugram to fix all roads damaged by rain by November 30.According to the civic officials, road repairs were carried out on internal roads of Sector 4 in municipal ward number 15, and Sector 10 of municipal ward number 23 by the MCG’s engineering wing on Friday. Different departments have been roped in for the work, they said. The MCG’s engineering wing also fixed footpaths, medians, pavement tracks, and tiles in parks falling under municipal wards 15 and 23. The officials said stretches falling under ward 14 area will be covered next. Apart from the MCG, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has also set November 15 as the deadline for its workers to fix all roads falling under its jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/municipal-corporation-of-gurugram-starts-road-repair-works-101635531474318.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Iconic Metro Cinema in south gets Mumbai heritage nod for floor addition||The Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC) has given its nod for the construction of an additional floor at the city’s iconic theatre Metro Cinema in Marine Lines. MHCC granted a no-objection certificate (NOC) to the heritage theatre – which is over 80 years old – after its owner had sought permission to allow them to construct an additional fifth floor on the existing wing of the Metro Cinema building, facing MG Road.As per MHCC’s records, Metro Cinema is listed as Grade-2A structure in the heritage list. The proposal for the construction of the additional floor was put forward by conservation Architect Kirtida Unwalla, who was the owners’ representative at MHCC and also a member of the committee. The proposal stated that there is an existing parapet wall of 3.4metres (m) in height at the terrace level and a new floor is proposed of 3.8m in height, citing that it would substantially not change the skyline of the building. The proposal further explained that a receding parapet wall is proposed at a new terrace floor and elevation of the floor would match the overall aesthetics of the art deco building.The minutes of meetings of MHCC, released on Thursday, read, “The committee found the proposal acceptable from a heritage point of view. However, it was suggested that the tower structure at the corner is an important art deco element of the structure and junction/intersection of new parapet wall and the tower shall follow the proportions of overall art deco scheme of the building.”The suggestion was accepted by the owner, post which MHCC decided to grant its NOC. However, the committee put forward four conditions, including ensuring the building’s structural stability as per the prevailing norms for the additional floor before starting work at the site and implementation of the elevations suggested by MHCC.Similarly, another two other conditions included that the NOC is issued from the heritage point of view and the authenticity/approvability of the proposal, including structural stability, floor space index (FSI) etc should be approved by the building proposal department of the civic body, as per the provisions of the prevailing policies. The NOC also mandated getting all other applicable permissions and ensuring that the applicant takes a completion certificate of MHCC on completion of the work at site.Metro Cinema is a beloved icon of Mumbai since the late 1930s and has played a vital role in the history of India’s film industry. The cinema house was built and originally run by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM). In the 1970s, after being taken over by the Gupta family, the cinema became Indian film industry’s most famous red-carpet theatre.The Metro Cinema building – ground-plus-four structure – is now being operated by Inox as a multiplex. Metro Inox has eight screens and a seating capacity of 1,350 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iconic-metro-cinema-in-south-gets-mumbai-heritage-nod-for-floor-addition-101635531415529.html
29-10-2021||Noida||Experts say at least 5 months needed to demolish Twin Towers of Supertech group||Experts studying the Supertech group’s twin towers in Noida’s Sector 93-A, which were constructed in violation of building norms, said on Friday they need at least five months to demolish the structures. They have suggested that the Supertech group plan the future course of action accordingly.Mohan Ramanathan, founder and chairman of the Indian Demolition Association and officials of three private agencies from Mumbai, which specialise in demolishing tall towers, visited the twin towers on Friday and accessed the inside of the twin towers. The team entered the tower after the vegetation and debris were cleared from the site as the buildings were lying sealed for the past seven years. “For the first time, we had access to the inside of the twin towers. Earlier, we had visited only the outside premises. To study such buildings, it takes at least a month or two, depending upon the structure and drawings. Once the study is complete, it will take at least another three months for demolition. In this case, it may take at least five to six months to demolish the twin towers. We will calculate the exact time required to complete the whole process once we complete assessing the building,” said Ramanathan, who was involved in the demolition of a 65 metre-long building in Maradu in Kochi, Kerala.Ramanathan said they used explosives for the demolition of the buildings in Kochi in January 2020, after those buildings were found to be in violation of the Coastal Regulation Zone norms by the Supreme Court.“We cannot say right now whether we can use explosives in this case; that will depend on technical calculations, which will be carried out once the study is complete. This is a difficult case technically because it will be the tallest residential tower ever to be demolished in India, as it is 100 metres in height. We need to assess the consequences because it is surrounded by residential towers,” said Ramanathan.In its order on October 31, the Supreme Court gave three months to the Supertech group to demolish the towers, and directed the Noida authority and Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) to supervise the demolition work. The Supreme Court ordered the demolition of the twin towers as the structure was built in violation of building norms. Two months have already passed since the apex court passed the demolition order.Experts said they are discussing only technical issues. The issue of the time taken to demolish the twin towers will be taken care of by parties concerned, according to the Supreme Court order. Experts gave a presentation to the Noida authority officials on Wednesday and informed them of the total time that will be required for the demolition process. They informed the officials that it may take more time as they have to ensure the safety of residents living in nearby towers.The Noida authority had sealed the twin towers following a Supreme Court order in April 2014. The building was de-sealed on October 26 this year again, further delaying the demolition process. “We are here to make sure that the Supreme Court order is implemented in totality. We are not concerned with how much time the agency hired for the demolition will take as it is the duty of Supertech to demolish the twin towers as per the court order. What is important is that we carry out our duties as per the SC order,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of the Noida authority.Chairman of Supertech Limited RK Arora said, “We will communicate all technical issues to Noida authority and the CBRI. We are committed to adhering to the SC order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/experts-say-at-least-5-months-needed-to-demolish-twin-towers-of-supertech-group-101635531114195.html
29-10-2021||Other||4,816 applications received for Punjab government welfare schemes on concluding day of Suvidha camps||The concluding day of the suvidha camps organised by the district administration in every sub-division of the district received a good response on Friday as 4,816 people applied to avail of benefits under several welfare schemes of the Punjab government. Divulging details, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that the camps were held to help people avail benefits of 19 schemes at their doorsteps. Speaking about number of applications received in each sub-division, he said that as many as 1,424 applications were received in Payal, 237 in Samrala, 1,007 applications in Jagraon, 139 in Ludhiana West, 959 in Raikot, 559 in Ludhiana East and 501 in Khanna sub-divisions.He said that the process of providing the benefit of the schemes to the applicants will be ensured in the coming days. The DC added that the camps will ensure every beneficiary avails the services of the schemes at the grassroots level including five-marla plots for landless citizens, pension scheme (old age, widow, dependent etc) and MGNREGA job cards. Sharma said it is an opportunity for the people to benefit from several schemes under one roof without needing to visit different offices. He added that these camps will be a boon for the underprivileged sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4816-applications-received-for-punjab-government-welfare-schemes-on-concluding-day-of-suvidha-camps-101635530994336.html
29-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Pension payment orders given out under EPFO’s ‘Prayaas’ scheme||The Employees’ Provident Fund Office (EPFO) held a function at Kundan Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Civil Lines, to hand over pension payment orders to the members of EPS, 1995, who are attaining the age of 58 years on October 31, 2021. The event was organised as part of ‘Prayaas’, an initiative to release pensions on the day of superannuation to members under the Employees’ Pension Scheme, 1995.Navita Puri, principal, Kundan Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, welcomed Sumeet Singh, regional provident fund commissioner-II, to the function.Sumeet Singh handed over pension pay orders (PPO) to employees of five different establishments. Annu Sehra and Ranbir Kaur from Kundan Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School; Suresh Kumar Arora from Sita Ram and Sons; Satnam Singh from Union Milk Plant and Rakesh Kumar Singla from Hero Steel Ltd under regional office, are beneficiaries of the EPFO’s ‘Prayaas’ initiative.Dheeraj Gupta, regional provident fund commissioner-I, appealed to all establishments especially big ones which are covered under the EPF & MP Act, 1952 under the jurisdiction of the regional office, Ludhiana, to file for ECR before the 15th of the month in which the employee is retiring and also submit Form-10D along with required documents so that the office may able to complete the formalities in time and hand over pension pay order (PPO) to the employees on the day of their retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianapension-payment-orders-given-out-under-epfo-s-prayaas-scheme-101635530574141.html
29-10-2021||Other||Legal awareness seminar held at Government College for Girls, Ludhiana||The legal literacy cell of Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, celebrated Vigilance Awareness Week. A legal awareness seminar and a poster-making competition were organised as a part of the week.Prabhjot Singh Kalki, chief judicial magistrate cum district legal services authority, District Court, Ludhiana, was the chief guest. Kirpal Kaur, vice-principal, and Mandeep Dua, in charge of the legal literacy cell, welcomed him. Prabhjot Singh Kalki told the students about the legal services authorities. He emphasized the ways to get free legal aid and also talked about mediation centres and permanent Lok Adalat.An interactive session was also held wherein students’ queries were answered. Kirpal Kaur expressed her gratitude to Prabhjot Singh Kalki, CJM, for enlightening the students about their legal rights. Mandeep Kaur proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/legal-awareness-seminar-held-at-government-college-for-girls-ludhiana-101635530154175.html
29-10-2021||Other||AAP leader Kulwant Sidhu commences fogging drive against dengue in Ludhiana||Slamming the municipal corporation (MC) for its alleged failure in taking up proper fogging drive in the city, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in charge of Atam Nagar constituency, Kulwant Sidhu, has privately commenced fogging in the constituency by purchasing four handy fogging machines to put a brake on the rising dengue cases.Fogging was conducted in different areas including, the Gill Road grain market, on Friday.Sidhu said,” My wife is also fighting the disease as the MC authorities failed to conduct proper fogging in the area. Now, a team has been deputed in the constituency that will privately conduct fogging daily. During a visit to the grain market, it was seen that the market has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and the authorities are turning a blind eye towards the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-leader-kulwant-sidhu-commences-fogging-drive-against-dengue-in-ludhiana-101635529915920.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Published photos of Wankhede's first wife with prior consent: Malik||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik claimed on Friday that he posted the pictures of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) chief Sameer Wankhede and his first wife Dr Shabana Quraishi with Dr Quraishi’s prior consent.Malik also said that he did not say anything against Kranti Redkar, Wankhede’s current wife. He also said that Kranti should not play the ‘Marathi Card’.“Dr Shabana Quraishi was never willing to come forward or speak over this issue (earlier). When Sameer Wankhede started stressing that he is Hindu, they had to speak up. Her father then told everyone that they always knew Wankhede family as being Muslim,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders questioned Malik’s decision to use the photos to get his point across.“When the photos were received, it was said that the person in the photograph agreed that they could be used,” Malik said.“While she has been playing the Marathi card, I want to underscore the fact that I and my family have been living in Maharashtra for almost 70 years. Am I not a Maharashtrian,” Malik said, highlighting that Wankhede’s wife Kranti was playing the ‘Marathi Card’. He reiterated that no accusations were made against Kranti Redkar.“Redkar should not forget that her husband was part of a conspiracy to defame Maharashtra and Mumbai,” Malik said, adding that he feels that a person can be saved because they are Maharashtrian or they belong to a certain caste or religion.The NCB zonal head and the NCP leader were at loggerheads since the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan. Malik accused Wankhede of extortion and by publishing his photo on social media Malik alleged that Wankehde falsely claimed that he belonged to the Scheduled Caste community and got his job. Malik says that Wankhede was a Muslim by birth, however, the NCB official has maintained that he is Hindu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/published-photos-of-wankhede-s-first-wife-with-prior-consent-malik-101635529403613.html
29-10-2021||Other||‘Derogatory’ remarks against Guru Nanak Dev: BJP leaders seek legal action||Seeking strict legal action against the persons who had recently made derogatory remarks against Guru Nanak Dev and his family members, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders submitted a memorandum with deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma on Friday.The memo was addressed to Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit.The BJP leaders stated that recently an audio clip went viral wherein a person or a group of persons were making derogatory remarks against the first Sikh guru, which is condemnable. This has hurt the sentiments of not only Sikhs but his followers from other religions too.BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said, “We have demanded that an inquiry should also be marked into the matter, and strict legal action should be taken against the accused. BJP has always stood for promoting peace in the state and this incident has hurt the sentiments of residents at large.”Various Sikh organisations have also been protesting in the city, seeking the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/derogatory-remarks-against-guru-nanak-dev-bjp-leaders-seek-legal-action-101635529496156.html
29-10-2021||Kolkata||One more held for murder of Kolkata corporate executive, driver; main accused still at large||The Kolkata Police on Friday arrested an e-rickshaw driver in connection with the murders of Subir Chaki, 61, the managing director of Kilburn Engineering, and his driver Rabin Mondal, 65, at the corporate executive’s ancestral house at Kankulia Road in south Kolkata’s Gariahat area on October 17, said officers involved in the investigation. The arrested man was identified as Sanjay Mondal. He was picked up from the Parulia area of South 24 Parganas district in the early hours of Friday. Mondal was allegedly present at the scene of the crime, an officer said on condition of anonymity. With this, the number of arrests in the case has gone up to four. Two other suspects, Jahir Gazi and Bapi Mondal, were picked up from the remote Patharpratima area of South 24 Parganas on October 22 by officers of the detective department. Vicky Haldar, the principal accused is still absconding, officers said. Vicky is the elder son of Mithu Haldar who was the first to be arrested. She was found at her home in South 24 Parganas district’s Diamond Harbour on October 20. Investigators suspect that Vicky was assisted by at least four people. Jahir Gazi and Bapi Mondal were allegedly offered ₹50,000 by Vicky’s mother for taking part in the crime, the police found during the investigation. Vicky continued to dodge the police till Friday evening by changing locations. Chaki and his driver were murdered after the top executive recognized Vicky who came to rob him posing as a buyer for Chaki’s three-storey ancestral house, the investigation has revealed so far. Vicky met Chaki for the first time around 10 months ago posing as a buyer but under a different name, police found after interrogating Vicky’s mother, father Subhas Haldar, younger brother Bilash and maternal uncle Tarun Haldar. The last three were detained for interrogation and were later allowed to go. On the evening of the murders, Chaki recognized Vicky from their earlier meeting. The gang decamped with Chaki’s gold rings and purse, which contained some cash and credit cards. The officers are trying to trace the knives used in the crime and find out what else was taken from the house. Chaki was trying to sell the house for the last six years and many people came to see the property which is valued at around ₹2 crore, given its size and prime location, residents of Kankulia Road told the police. In the past, Chaki sent his driver with the keys when prospective buyers wanted to see the house. The police suspect that Chaki might have been led to believe that he was close to sealing a deal and hence came to the house himself on October 17.“The investigation will be complete only after Vicky’s arrest. Bapi Mondal’s wife told us that after returning home he said it was Vicky who killed Chaki,” said an officer. Mithu Haldar, who worked as a nurse for elderly people in the Kankulia Road area, is in police custody. The police told the court that she and Vicky planned the robbery that led to the murders. Mithu Haldar and her husband Subhas Haldar had an estranged relationship and used to live separately, the probe has revealed. South 24 Parganas district police officers said that in 2021 Subhas Haldar filed a complaint against his wife and Vicky saying they tried to kill him. Mithu Haldar and Vicky were arrested and remanded in judicial custody before being released on bail. Chaki, who lived in New Town on the eastern outskirts of the city with his wife, mother and mother-in-law, also owned property at a posh south Kolkata condominium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/one-more-held-for-murder-of-kolkata-corporate-executive-driver-main-accused-still-at-large-101635529494950.html
29-10-2021||Other||Local bodies department gives nod to ₹9.5 cr budget for drain project in Ludhiana||To provide a respite to the residents of Dhoka Mohalla, Dharampura, and adjoining areas from rainwater accumulation, the municipal corporation (MC) has commenced the work to cover the Dharampura internal drain starting from Shingar Cinema Road to Gaughat Cremation Ground in the old city area. The local bodies department has approved the estimate of around ₹9.50 crore for covering the drain.The chief engineer of the local bodies department, Ashwani Chaudhary, inspected the site during his visit to the city on Thursday, following which the estimate was approved on Friday.The drain overflows during the rainy season every year, and the filthy sewer water enters the houses in the area. The residents have been seeking a solution for a long time and the matter was also highlighted in front of MLA Surinder Dawar in the past.Following this, the MC had proposed a project to cover the drain. The residents stated that the project will also bring a respite from traffic jams in the area, and the road area will also be widened after the nullah is covered.Rahul, one of the residents, said, “It will be a major relief for the residents if the nullah is covered, as the residents are not even able to step out of their houses during the rainy season. The overflowing filthy water enters our houses every year.”The chief engineer stated that the department has approved the estimate for the project, and formal communication regarding the same will be shared with the MC by Friday evening. The MC will now float tenders to hire a contractor.Chief engineer inspects road construction projectsWhile the residents have been raising concern over the quality of road construction work in the city, Chaudhary also inspected a few ongoing road construction projects, including those on Rani Jhansi Road and Udham Singh Nagar.Chaudhary said that the officials have been directed to get the sampling of construction works done regularly to keep a check on the quality and share the report with the state department as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-bodies-department-gives-nod-to-9-5-cr-budget-for-drain-project-in-ludhiana-101635529314094.html
29-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: CPA boys’ team defeats Crystal Club girls’ team by 10 wickets||The boys’ team of CP Academy defeated the girls’ team of Crystal Club by 10 wickets in a 40 over match during the GNSA Under-14 Cricket Tournament in Jassian on Friday.CP Academy won the toss and chose to field first. Batting first, the girls’ team collapsed at 86 runs, losing all ten wickets in 34.3 overs.Most of the players in the Crystal Club girls’ team were from the Ludhiana district team.Both the openers of Crystal Club were seen struggling against the CPA but managed to hold their wickets till 13.5 overs when Akansha Saini, the top scorer for the team lost her wicket. Both the openers had a 45-run partnership against the boys’ team.Other than Saini, only two players, including opener Seema Purohit, who scored 15 runs in 55 balls, and wicketkeeper Divya Rajput, who scored 13 runs in 40 deliveries, could manage to reach double figures.Meanwhile, Harish Kumar and Sargun of CP Academy took three wickets each against the girls’ team, and Gurbaljeet Singh clinched two wickets.However, bowlers of the Crystal Club girls’ team failed to impress as they couldn’t get a single wicket.CP Academy managed to achieve the target in 14.3 overs, scoring 87 runs.Sargun played a brilliant knock of 66 runs facing 52 deliveries, smashing three sixes and eight fours. Meanwhile, Sagar Eashver Khattri kept rotating the strike and remained not out at 21, facing 35 deliveries and hitting a boundary.Sargun was awarded the man of the match award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cpa-boys-team-defeats-crystal-club-girls-team-by-10-wickets-101635528834138.html
29-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana to host state trials for Khelo India from today||The trials for the selection of Punjab state teams for the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games will commence here on Saturday.Various sports activities in the under-18 category will be held in the Games, which will be held from February 5 to 14, 2022, in Panchkula, Haryana.Ludhiana sports department will host the trials for state girls’ and boys’ teams of kabaddi, football, basketball, and handball on Saturday.The selection committee will consist of district sports officer (DSO) Ravinder Singh who has been appointed as its chairman, along with a representative of the sports association of Punjab and a representative of Schools Games Federation of India (SGFI). The trials of kabaddi, football, and basketball will be held at Guru Nanak Stadium at 11 am on Saturday. The trials for handball are scheduled to be held at Punjab Agricultural University.Meanwhile, the trials for Kho-Kho will be held at Polo Ground, Patiala on Saturday, and trials for Hockey will be held at Lyallpur Khalsa College in Jalandhar on November 6, 2021.In the last edition, players participated in 19 sporting disciplines. This time players will participate in 25 sporting disciplines as handball has been included this time along with five indigenous sports disciplines including gatka, thang-ta, kalaripayattu, mallakhamb, and yogasana.The other sports include archery, judo, table tennis, kabaddi, athletics, shooting, tennis, kho-kho, badminton, swimming, basketball, volleyball, boxing, weightlifting, football, cycling, gymnastics, wrestling, and hockey. EligibilityAny athlete born on or after January 1, 2003, is eligible to participate in these games.Players have been directed to carry along any two of their identification documents. They can carry their Aadhar Cards, passports, matriculate certificates, or birth certificates. The birth certificate should have been issued on or before November 21, 2016, by MC/Gram Panchayat.According to the officials, an athlete will only be able to represent the state where he/she is attending the school.According to an order of the senior director, Khelo India, the top teams for the team events including, basketball, kho-kho, football, volleyball, hockey, handball, and kabaddi, will be drawn from nationals conducted by respective national sports federations (NSF) or by school games federation of India. The DSO, Ludhiana, said that the top players from the districts will participate in these trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-to-host-state-trials-for-khelo-india-from-today-101635528475458.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||UP special security force to guard banks across state||The newly constituted Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF) formed on the lines of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will provide security services to all banks across the state, stated a press note of the home department on Friday.The home department has asked to submit the requirement of specially trained personnel of SSF at all banks across the state. On the basis of the requirement, the deployment of security personnel will be done.The press note was issued to share the details to decision taken in the state-level security committee for banks held under additional chief secretary (ACS), home, UP government, Awanish Kumar Awasthi on Reserve Bank of India, Lucknow, premises on Friday.The press note stated that all banks had been asked ensure CCTVs at its all branches and ATMs and submit an affidavit to the state government in this connection. It stated that the deployment of UP112 police patrol vehicles had also been done in security of the banks across the state.Moreover, the coordination will be established between the banks and UP Anti-Terrorist Squad, which is the nodal agency to curb circulation of fake Indian currency notes.Addressing the meeting, ACS, home, stressed on enhancing surveillance system and data storage security as well as installation of CCTVs at all currency chests, branches and ATMs across the state. He stated the regular maintenance of already existing security systems like alarms and sirens should be done. Awasthi also stated that regular audit of fire safety and prevention should also be done at the banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-special-security-force-to-guard-banks-across-state-101635528355680.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Now, products of UP artisans, weavers will be available on GeM portal||The state government has decided to make available handicraft and other products of artisans on Government e-Market (GeM) portal of the Centre. The Modi government had launched the GeM portal on August 9, 2016, to make the procurement system by government and public sector bodies transparent.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME, on Friday met Prashant Kumar Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), GeM, to discuss the issue. The government has taken this initiative to help artisans sell their products to government departments. According to the state government, there are 28,386 artisans and 1,49,429 weavers registered with the GeM portal. Of them, 4,840 artisans and 6,865 weavers are of Uttar Pradesh. The government will also organise “GeM event” in Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Kannauj, Agra, Aligarh, Moradabad, Meerut and Greater Noida districts. In this event, MSME entrepreneurs and other traders of these cities will take part. In the ongoing financial year, the state government has purchased goods of over ₹2,584.47 crore from GeM portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-products-of-up-artisans-weavers-will-be-available-on-gem-portal-101635527754320.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Notorious history-sheeter injured in police encounter||A notorious history-sheeter was arrested after an encounter with a police team under Colonelganj police station in the wee hours on Friday. The injured history-sheeter was admitted to SRN hospital for treatment. The arrested criminal was involved in hurling crude bombs in the Katra area of Prayagraj and has many criminal cases lodged against him, police said.Circle Officer (Colonelganj) Ajeet Singh Chauhan said acting on a tip-off, joint teams of SOG and Colonelganj police laid a trap near Ayodhya Hostel in the wee hours. Two bike-borne suspects were asked to stop, but they opened fire on the police team. In retaliatory firing, one of the miscreants was hit by a bullet in his leg while the other fled. The injured history-sheeter was identified as Mahendra Pasi of Ramman Ka Purwa locality of Dhumnaganj.A country made firearm and ammunition were recovered from him, he added. Questioning him revealed that criminal Nan Bachha, who was killed in 2018 by Dhiraj Gupta and Niraj Gupta and the duo were sent to jail. To avenge Bachha’s murder, his brother had given a contract to Mahendra for killing Niraj’s father Harishchandra. Mahendra hurled crude bombs on Harishchandra, resulting in injuries to him and two others. Mahendra has over a dozen cases lodged against him at different police stations of the city, CO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-notorious-history-sheeter-injured-in-police-encounter-101635527394071.html
29-10-2021||Jaipur||Cong gets majority in zila parishad polls in Alwar, Dholpur. Thanks, says Gehlot||JAIPUR: A day ahead of voting for bypolls on two Rajasthan assembly seats, the ruling Congress on Saturday won a majority of zila parishad (district council) seats in Alwar and Dholpur districts, results of which were announced on Friday.The Congress also took a lead in the elections to panchayat samitis. Elections of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members were held in three phases.Of the 72 Zila Parishad members, the Congress won on 42, BJP on 26 and Independents on 4. At the same time, out of 492 seats of 22 panchayat samiti, results of 491 have also been declared. The Congress won 208, BJP 158, BSP 12 and independents won 113 seats. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the Congress has got a huge majority in the panchayati raj elections of Alwar and Dholpur districts. “Thanks to all the voters and thanks to the workers for the victory,” he tweeted.In Alwar and Dholpur districts, 65.2% voters exercised their franchise in the third and final phase of elections for panchayat samiti and zila parishad members. The highest poll percentage of 70% was reported from Kishangarh Bas Panchayat Samiti of Alwar district.The election of zila pramukh and panchayat samiti pradhan will be held on October 30 while up-zila pramukh and up-pradhan of panchayat samitis will be elected on October 31. Friday’s positive bit of news for the Congress comes a day ahead of by-elections in Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) assembly seats on Saturday. Polling will be held from 7am to 6pm at 638 polling booths in the two assembly constituencies amid tight security arrangements. The votes will be counted on November 2. The bypolls were necessitated due to the death of BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena, and Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cong-gets-majority-in-zila-parishad-polls-in-alwar-dholpur-thanks-says-gehlot-101635527153981.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||IIM Lucknow inks MoU with ICSI for academic collaboration||The Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, (IIML) and the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for academic collaboration for promoting excellence in common areas of interest, imparting knowledge and skills required to operate in the area of academic programmes, research and training. The MoU was signed by director, IIM Lucknow, prof Archana Shukla and joint secretary, ICSI, AK Srivastava.Members from IIM Lucknow prof Arunabha Mukhopadhyay, dean, programmes, prof Seshadev Sahoo, chairperson, post graduate programmes and prof Kshitiz Awasthi, head, IIML Centre for Public Policy and ICSI, CS Atul Kumar Rawat, chairman, Lucknow Chapter, CS Gunjan Goel, secretary, Lucknow Chapter, CS Abhishek Sinha, treasurer, Lucknow Chapter and CS Apurva Srivastava were also present on the occasion.The MoU would broadly cover the activities like jointly organising workshops, seminars, continuing education and training programmes and similar academic programmes for practising professionals, corporate executives and faculty members, research scholars and students of both the institutes on themes of topical and professional interests.It will pave way for exchange of faculty members, regular exchange of course materials, case studies, research publications and other academic and research projects. Speaking on the occasion, director, IIM Lucknow, prof Archana Shukla said, “This is not just an MoU, it is coming together of two like-minded institutions, which through collective objectives, would contribute to the nation building process. She further said, “India has everything and what we are lacking in is clear skill sets and by working together, we can nurture not just educated youth but thought leaders of tomorrow.”Joint secretary, ICSI, AK Srivastava said this MoU would open a plethora of opportunities for various stakeholders of both the institutes and would be milestone in itself. “This MoU forwards the PM’s vision of a stronger interface between various multi-faceted academic institutions,” he said.
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Curb black marketing of fertilisers: RLD to govt||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Friday demanded the government to take appropriate steps immediately to effectively curb black marketing of fertilisers and ensure that the farmers’ paddy was not purchased below the minimum support price (MSP).In a statement here, party spokesman Anil Dubey said there was an acute shortage of fertilisers in the state due to black marketing making it difficult for farmers to sow their crops. He also alleged that the government procurement centres were dilly-dallying purchase of paddy due to which farmers were forced to sell their produce for a song in the market.Dubey also said the recent statewide unseasonal rain and floods had made the condition of the farmers in the state even more miserable but the government, he alleged, was doing nothing to mitigate their sufferings.“The government has become indifferent to problems of farmers owing to their protesting the Centre’s three farm laws for 11 months now,” Dubey alleged and warned that farmers would be forced to begin state-wide protests if the government did not resolve the issues related to shortage of fertilisers and sale of paddy below the MSP in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/curb-black-marketing-of-fertilisers-rld-to-govt-101635526675284.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar social worker attacked by contractor||An Ulhasnagar-based social worker was attacked by a contractor while she was trying to take a video of a work done by the said contractor.The social worker, Sarita Kanchandani, 47, is the president of Hirali Foundation. She registered an FIR at the Vithalwadi police station under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code against the said contractor for assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty.According to police officials, Kanchandani was recording the contractor, Ajay Shevani. The accused was doing repair work of a garden in the complainant’s society. While she asked for the permission, he didn’t provide the same and an argument broke ensued.She then started recording the work done by him and alleged it to be illegal when he slapped her.Vithalwadi police station officer said, “We have registered a case under IPC 354 and 504 for outraging the modesty of a woman.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-social-worker-attacked-by-contractor-101635526613798.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt transfers 13 more IAS officers||In another administrative reshuffle, the state government on Friday transferred 13 more Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers while the transfer order of the two IAS officers, who were removed from the post of district magistrate late on Wednesday night, was amended. On Wednesday, the state government had shifted 10 IAS officers.Anuj Jha has been made director, panchayati raj department, while Andra Vamsi has been made MD, Skill Development Mission. Kunal Silku is now MD, PCF, while VK Singh has been made commissioner, rural development. Besides, Ujjawal Kumar has been posted as special secretary, information technology department and Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya is now special secretary, housing, and Gyan Prakash Tripathi has been made special secretary, PWD.Devendra Pandey has been made special secretary in Agriculture Production Commissioner office and Sheshmani Pandey is now special secretary, handloom. Likewise, A Dinesh Kumar has been posted as special secretary, urban development, and Prashant Kumar has been made special secretary, micro small medium enterprises department. Also, Abhishek Singh has been made special secretary, vocational education department and Rishirendra Kumar is now special secretary, agriculture department.Moreover, the transfer order of district magistrate, Amethi, Arun Kumar, who was made DM, Mau, on Thursday, has been amended. Kumar will continue as DM Amethi. The transfer of DM, Mau, Amit Singh Bansal has also been amended and Bansal will continue as DM, Mau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-transfers-13-more-ias-officers-101635526135494.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Pune police receive four more complaints against Kiran Gosavi||The Pune police have received four more complaints of cheating against Kiran Gosavi. These are cheating complaints which will be converted into FIRs by Saturday, police said on Friday.Gosavi was arrested on Thursday in Pune in a case of cheating dating back to 2018.Gosavi is also a key witness of the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in the probe against drugs seized on a cruise ship, in which Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan was arrested. Aryan Khan will be released on bail on Saturday morning from a Mumbai jail.According to the police, the cheating complaints against Gosavi have been filed at Wanowrie and Cantonment police stations and these will be converted into FIRs. Gosavi is currently in police custody till November 5 . Gosavi was arrested from a lodge in Katraj while he was on the run, from Uttar Pradesh, and Telangana, and back to Pune, under the alias Sachin Patil||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-to-lodge-four-firs-against-kiran-gosavi-in-previous-cases-101635526073943.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||5 arrested for thefts in Dombivli||The Manpada police in Dombivli have arrested five accused in 11 house break-ins, vehicle thefts and mobile/chain snatching cases in the area. The team has recovered all the valuables from the accused worth ₹4.40 lakh including foreign currency.The accused have been identified as Shubham Borade, 20, Akash Pole, 21, Akash Sharma, 20, Rafiq Shaikh, 25, Mohin Ahamed, 31. According to Manpada officials, the accused have been active in small thefts since lockdown and recently started stealing bikes and breaking into houses.An officer from Manpada police station said, “In some of the CCTV footage, the accused were seen clearly and therefore we started searching for them after which on Thursday we were able to arrest all of them and recovered bikes, cash and foreign currency worth ₹4.40 lakh. All of them are residents of Kalyan and nearby areas. Therefore, they used to roam around the streets and wherever they got a chance to steal anything, they would take advantage of the same. Further investigation about them is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-arrested-for-thefts-in-dombivli-101635525719225.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||MMR accounts for half of daily Covid caseload and active cases of state||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), comprising nine municipal corporations and nine municipal councils, continue to report a high Covid-19 daily caseload. The region has been reporting almost half the daily cases in the state of late and has 46% of the active cases.Maharashtra on Friday recorded 1,338 cases with 36 deaths taking its tally to 6,609,292 and toll to 140,170. Around 638 or 47.68% of the new cases were from MMR. Of the 18,465 active cases reported in the state, MMR accounted for 8,910 or 46.25%.MMR includes Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Raigad districts, with a cumulative projected population of more than 25 million, over 20% of the state population. It is regarded as one most urbanised pockets in Maharashtra.With the comparatively high number of daily caseload, Mumbai outnumbered Pune to lead in the number of Covid-19 active cases. Thane, a part of MMR also featured in the third position contributing to the growing number of cases in the MMR.The reason for the high number of cases in MMR is attributed to the high density of population, huge network of local trains, reopening of various facilities, a large number of workspaces and crowded places making social distancing impossible.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “The MMR has a high density of population, hence we are seeing a high number of cases here. In the second wave, we saw a surge of cases in the rural parts of the state but now they have gone down significantly. In Mumbai and Thane, the numbers have stabilised though they are not coming down as rapidly as in other parts. Though they may seem high the situation is under control,” said Dr Awate.The MMR has for months hovered between 35% and 50% of new cases. Depending on the surge in rural areas, the percentage of the cases to total state figure decreased during the peak of the second wave as districts like Ahmednagar, Pune, Satara and Sangli witnessed a huge surge of cases. However, now with the decline of Covid-19 cases in the rural parts, the MMR has again seen a significant rise in cases.Take the case of a year back on October 29, 2020, when the number of cases in MMR clocked 2,076 of the total 5,902 cases that day which worked out to be 35.17%. In the case of active cases, MMR stood at 45,351 of the total 127,603 which is 35.54%.This dropped to 27.65% as of April 22 this year when the virus was at its peak as the cases in MMR stood at 17,195, of the total 67,013 new cases. The active cases in MMR were 191,926, of the total 6,99,858 active cases, which is 27.42%.On September 29, 2021, there were 1,064 Covid-19 new cases, of the total 3,187 cases, which come to 37.38 % and the active cases stood at 12,602 of the total 36,675 active cases which are 37,36%.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital described the crowding in urban pockets as dangerous. “We have space in rural pockets to spread out but there is no such luxury in the MMR due to paucity of space,” said Dr Shaikh. “We are also seeing the people in urban pockets letting their guard down which is becoming very risky,” warned Shaikh.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 330 new cases and six deaths taking a tally to 756,134 and toll to 16,241. There were 1,22,990 tests done on Friday across the state, while the number of recoveries clocked 1,584. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 18,465. Mumbai tops with 4,955 active patients, followed by Pune with 3,759 and Thane with 2,829.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmr-accounts-for-half-of-daily-covid-caseload-and-active-cases-of-state-101635525533973.html
29-10-2021||Other||Boy hit by police vehicle battles for life||PATNA A minor boy was grievously injured after being hit by a police patrol vehicle in Bihar’s Nalanda district on Friday, police said.The boy, Vijay Kumar, was on his way to attend a coaching class at Islampur when a police jeep, allegedly being driven by trainee sub-inspector Nishu Kumar, hit him on the Murgawan Raod and then turned turtle. Villagers rushed to the spot and rescued the boy, who has been rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital. Nishu Kumar is posted at Islampur police station and was learning to drive the vehicle during patrolling, sources said.Chandrasekhar Singh, station house officer of Islampur police station, said action would be taken against the trainee sub-inspector and the police would bear expenses of the treatment of injured person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boy-hit-by-police-vehicle-battles-for-life-101635525353758.html
29-10-2021||Other||4 women crushed to death near Ara||ARA Four women, all in their 50s, were crushed to death by a speeding vehicle near Bihar’s Ara town on Friday morning when they were returning home after visiting a temple, police said.The accident took place on Piro-Jagdishpur road near Devhanda bridge.Police, quoting eyewitnesses, said the women were hit by a speeding Scorpio going towards Jagdishpur from Piro. The vehicle sped away after the accident.The victims were identified as Motijharo Devi, Manti Devi, Urmila Devi and Sarswati Devi of Ojhwalia village under Piro police station limits. Piro subdivisional police officer Rahul Singh said the incident took place when the women were crossing the road. He said the kin of victims were provided financial assistance under the state government’s “Kabir Antyeshthi Anudan” scheme for conducting their last rites, adding that they were additionally entitled to a compensation by transport department which is given to victims of road accidents. After the incident, locals blocked the road and did not allow the police to carry the bodies for autopsy for hours, but finally relented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-women-crushed-to-death-near-ara-101635525298344.html
29-10-2021||Other||Dhanbad judge death: CBI has no evidence to back its claims, says HC||RANCHI The Jharkhand High Court on Friday expressed its displeasure with the investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the Dhanbad judge death case and said the agency had not conducted the probe professionally and levelled charges without any evidence to back it in the charge sheet.Additional district judge Uttam Anand was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw in Dhanbad on the morning of July 28 this year. A CCTV footage that emerged shortly after showed the vehicle swerving to the left and hitting Anand on a road that had sparse traffic, leading to suspicions that it was a murder.The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the case.“The court observed it was clear from the charge sheet that CBI still remains where it started from. There has not been much of difference between the investigation of the state police and CBI. They have filed the charge sheet without any clarity on the motive behind the murder, which will be considered a failure for a professional agency like CBI,” a lawyer who was present at the hearing said, quoting the division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujeet Narayan Prasad of the HC. CBI, however, assured the court it was pursuing the investigation and needed some time to come up with concrete evidence to back its case, the lawyer said, adding that the court has fixed the next hearing in the case for November 12. The vehicle that mowed down Anand was found to be stolen from Dhanbad and was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district the same night. Two persons, auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21, were arrested two days later.Last week, CBI filed the charge sheet against the two under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. CBI took over the probe on July 31 after the top court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.The HC bench also asked the state government to file an affidavit related to withdrawal of the advertisement to fill vacancies at the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission submitted that notification for recruitment in FSL was cancelled as rule regarding recruitment in the FSL has to be changed. “On the next date of hearing, the state government has to reply explaining the facts about change in rule and cancellation of notification,” the lawyer quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-judge-death-cbi-has-no-evidence-to-back-its-claims-says-hc-101635525297121.html
29-10-2021||Other||MBBS interns in Bihar call off strike||PATNA Around 900 MBBS medicos across nine government medical colleges of Bihar resumed duty Friday morning following verbal assurance from the state health officials that their demand for hike in monthly stipend would be considered sympathetically. The MBBS interns get a monthly stipend of ₹15,000, which they claim is the lowest in India, and want it raised to ₹35,000. Over the last two days, the medicos had disrupted hospital services, including outdoor patient department (OPD) and laboratory investigations, at most of the nine government medical colleges. The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), both in Patna, and the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH) in Darbhanga were among the worst affected as many patients coming from different districts had to return due to lack of treatment. “We have withdrawn our work boycott call following an assurance by Pratyaya Amrit, additional chief secretary, health, that our demands will be looked into sympathetically and expeditiously. We have resumed duty from Friday morning,” said Rohit Kumar, a 2016-batch MBBS student at the PMCH. “If the government still does not listen to our demands and implement them, we will paralyse both emergency and OPD services,” he said. Meanwhile, the Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA), which was tacitly supporting the interns, termed their demand as genuine. “Their (the MBBS interns) demands are genuine and the government should revise the stipend, which is due for revision since April last year,” said Dr Manoranjan Kumar, JDA president, PMCH. “MBBS students have been getting ₹15,000 as monthly stipend during their internship period since 2013 in government medical colleges of Bihar. The health department had in April 2017 issued a letter mentioning that our stipend will be revised every three years, but has not done it so far,” said Rohit. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary said he had to caution the medicos to call off their protest and return to work, failing which he would have initiated action against them. “Our OPD services were partially affected for two days. I then warned the students of repercussions if they continued to disrupt hospital functioning and did not return to work. The medicos have joined their work today,” he said. OPD services at most of the nine state-run medical colleges, including the PMCH, NMCH, DMCH, the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College in Gaya, Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital in Muzaffarpur, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Bhagalpur, the Government Medical College in Bettiah, the Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital, Madhepura, and the Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri, were affected due to the medicos protest over the last couple of days. MBBS students have to undergo one-year compulsory rotational internship, after clearing four university exams in four-and-a-half-years during the course. They are attached to different departments and are tasked to do initial assessment of patients under guidance of senior doctors during their internship period during which they get a consolidated monthly stipend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mbbs-interns-in-bihar-call-off-strike-101635525295781.html
29-10-2021||Other||15-day special leave for Bihar govt staff for Vipassana course||PATNA In a first, the Bihar government will grant 15-day special leave to its employees to join Vipassana, one of India’s most ancient techniques of meditation, according to a notification issued Thursday by the general administration department.This follows chief minister Nitish Kumar’s announcement to this effect at the Bihar assembly building centenary function last week, which was attended by President Ram Nath Kovind.“Vipassana meditation will have a positive impact on the efficiency of state government employees. It will lead to overall improvement in their personality and inter-departmental relationship. After due consideration, it has been decided to grant a maximum of 15-day special leave to the government employees to participate in the 10-day residential Vipassana programme, run by Pataliputra Vipassana Trust at the Buddha Smriti Park in Patna under the aegis of the urban development and housing department,” says the notification. The special leave will be granted to employees joining the residential meditation programme from outside Patna and only upon confirmation of their registration. Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama had inaugurated the Buddha Smriti Park in 2010, which has relics of the Buddhist-era brought from Sri Lanka, Japan, Thailand, Myanmar and South Korea. It has a meditation centre, which has now been developed as Vipassana centre, museum and stupas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15day-special-leave-for-bihar-govt-staff-for-vipassana-course-101635525294024.html
29-10-2021||Other||5 die in Muzaffarpur ‘hooch’ tragedy, four arrested||PATNA Five persons have died and several others have fallen ill after consuming liquor at a village in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar, where total prohibition is in place for more than five years. Police said the incident took place at Rupauli village under Saraiya police station on Thursday night and four of them died at the hospital Friday morning. The fifth person’s body was found near his house. Four persons, including a ward member of the local panchayat samiti, have been arrested in connection with the incident, the police said. This is the second incident of death due to consumption of suspected spurious liquor in north Bihar in the last one week.Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police Jayant Kant said that preliminary investigation has revealed that the five died after consuming a certain poisonous substance. “Post-mortem will determine the exact cause of death. Police recovered a stack of empty liquor and methyl alcohol bottles from the house of one of those who died in the incident. Searches are being conducted in the surrounding areas and a team of forensic experts has been engaged by the police”.The deceased were identified as Munna Singh (32), Awanish Singh (35), Bipul Sahi (35), Dhiresh Kumar alias Gultu(40) and Awinash Kumar Ram (35), all residents of Rupauli village.Rajesh Sharma, subdivisional police officer (SDPO) of Saraiya, said Sahi, Gultu and Awinash died Friday morning while undergoing treatment at a private hospital while and Munna and Awanish died at another hospital late Thursday night. On Friday, police carried out raids at Rupauli and neighbouring Vishhar-patti village and arrested four persons, including the newly elected ward member, Amit Kumar. Police said that over a dozen people, including Amit, had consumed liquor together on the night of October 27 in Rupauli village after which most of them had fallen ill. The liquor party was organised by Amit at Gultu’s place to celebrate his election as a ward member. “A detailed report has been sought from Saraiya SDPO,” the SSP said, adding that consumption of methyl alcohol is suspected to be the reason behind their death. This is second suspected hooch incident in the last one week. On Sunday night, five persons died in Siwan due to suspected hooch consumption. Following the incident, two policemen, including the local police station house officer, were suspended for dereliction of duty on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-die-in-muzaffarpur-hooch-tragedy-four-arrested-101635525233993.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai DCP breaks stereotypes, keeps fit by lifting weights||A DCP with the Navi Mumbai police is using social media to break traditional stereotypes that associate lifting weights in the gym with male exercisers. While DCP Rupali Ambure has only recently started publishing videos of her workouts, she has been sweating it out on the mat for the last seven years.Currently posted as DCP Special Branch, Navi Mumbai, Ambure, a mother of two daughters, first hit the gym in 2014 when she got posted as DCP Central Railway, Mumbai Government Railway Police. “Fitness has always been a passion since childhood. I used to be a runner in school and have also participated in marathons. During our training at the academy, we used to have daily morning and evening physical training sessions and drills. After I became an officer, I found myself missing these sessions and also realised that I wasn’t able to give time to my fitness,” Ambure recalls.During her initial postings in districts like Nashik, Jalgaon and Amravati, Ambure also had two daughters, who are now 14 and 12, with her. By the time she got her first posting in Mumbai, she had resolved to turn back to a fitter lifestyle. She joined a gym in Mumbai and started a combination of weight training, cardio and diet – a regimen that she still follows religiously.“Slowly but very surely, I started noticing a change in myself. The change was not just physical but also in my attitude and mental health. I started feeling youthful and more energetic throughout the day,” Ambure says. Today, she wakes up at 5am and is in the gym by 5.30am, determinedly obeying all her trainer’s orders, faltering sometimes but never giving up. She works out hard till 7.30am, after which she heads home to take the rest of the day by its horns. Videos of her workout, where she is seen lifting heavy weights without breaking a sweat, occupy positions of pride among her Instagram posts, with each video - or Reel, getting anything between 500 and 1,500 views. “It is a myth that lifting weights makes you look masculine and I am aware that a lot of women still have this misconception. There are so many women in my gym who follow the same workout programme that I do. Although I have never thought about it in terms of gender, these are definitely some notions that we need to do away with,” Ambure says.Along with her workout, her diet, too, is an important part of her day. She makes it a point to take home cooked food with just the right balance of proteins, carbohydrates and other nutrients with her to work. Besides, she avoids junk food whenever she needs to go out for meetings. Even if she does indulge herself once in a while, she makes sure she eats small portions. “The trick is portion control. After all, what is the point of lifting all those weights if you can’t have a cheat meal once in a while?” Ambure asks.Like a true-blue gym-rat, Ambure, too, has her favourite day at the gym; leg day. “Squats are truly a full-body exercise and very beneficial. While some hate leg day because of how gruelling it is, I find myself looking forward to it,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-dcp-breaks-stereotypes-keeps-fit-by-lifting-weights-101635524874030.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Green crackers permitted in UP for 2 hrs in areas with moderate/better air quality||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh will permit use of green crackers during Diwali celebrations for a duration not more than two hours in areas where air quality is moderate or better.This will be as per the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), passed on December 1, 2020 and the Supreme Court order passed on July 23 this year over the sale and use of green crackers during festivity for a stipulated time frame during the Covid pandemic, said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home, in a letter to all divisional commissioners, DMs, IGPs, DIGs, police commissioners and SPs. The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) is monitoring the air quality of 27 cities. From January to September, the air quality of Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra, Sonbhadra, Gajraula, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Varanasi, Noida, Firozabad, Jhansi, Khurja, Prayagraj, Meerut, Moradabad, Bareilly, Rae Bareli, Mathura, Saharanpur, Gorakhpur, Unnao, Greater Noida, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Ayodhya was found moderate, he said.The Supreme Court, in its order, has made it clear that if the air quality of an area is moderate or better then local authorities can give permission for the sale and use of the green crackers, he added.District administration officers have also been directed to follow the NGT order in which it has directed that there will be a total ban on sale and use of all kinds of fire crackers in cities and towns, where the ambient air quality falls under the poor and above category.The NGT has ordered for restricted use of fire crackers in cities and towns where air quality is moderate or below to green crackers only for duration of not more than two hours, only for celebration of any specified festivals or permitted occasions. Such festivals will be specified by the states. Other than specified festivals, prior permission of the district magistrate of the area will be required for use of crackers for limited period. Green crackers are produced with less harmful raw materials, in accordance with instructions issued by the top court, and are made in a way that suppresses the dust when they are burnt – thus reducing emissions. They also do not contain harmful chemicals such as lithium, arsenic, barium, and lead and instead release water vapour that does not allow the dust to rise. Although still impactful on the climate to an extent, these green crackers are believed to cause 30% less particulate matter pollution than traditional crackers and are thus considered generally less harmful than their conventional alternatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/green-crackers-permittedin-up-for-2-hrs-in-areas-with-moderate-better-air-quality-101635524813830.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Man in Bhiwandi arrested for attacking six neighbours, killing two of them||A 45-year-old man in Bhiwandi randomly attacked six people in his neighbourhood and killed two people while injuring four others. He later locked himself in a room. Police broke down the lock and arrested him.The accused, identified as Mohhamad Ansari, 45, of Gabir Nagar, Bhiwandi, had a fight with one of the deceased neighbours a few days ago on petty issues. The wife of the deceased, Imtiaz Khan, had scolded him, saying he was a freeloader and lived off their earnings, that he was jobless and a troublemaker. After this, some of the neighbours teased him a few times over the accusations that enraged him.He did odd jobs earlier. However, since the last few years, he merely indulged in alcohol, allegedly harassed his mother and neighbours, claimed the police.On Friday, after lunchtime, when he was alone, he saw neighbour Kamruja Ansari, 45, standing out and chatting with his son. He came out with a knife and stabbed him on the chest. While other family members and neighbours saw this and came out to stop Ansari, he attacked all six of them. The neighbour who came to the rescue, Imtiaz Khan, 35, was also stabbed and he died before being admitted to a hospital. The other four injured neighbours were admitted to the hospital.Investigation officer of Shanti Nagar police station, police inspector Nilesh Badakh, said, “The accused was held by a neighbour after the incident, but he locked himself inside his house and was not coming out for half-an-hour, after which our officials broke the door and held him. We arrested him under IPC Section 302 and further inquiry is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-in-bhiwandi-arrested-for-attacking-six-neighbours-killing-two-of-them-101635523799252.html
29-10-2021||Other||Odisha minister in crosshairs of opposition in female teacher murder case, says he’s being maligned||As opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress continued to gun for his head, alleging his proximity with Gobinda Sahu accused of murdering woman school teacher Mamita Meher early this month, minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra on Friday evening broke his silence accusing some TV channels of launching a character assassination campaign against him.“I am deeply saddened and anguished by the unfortunate death of Mamita Meher. I am a father and I can understand the trauma the family must be going through. My deepest condolences to the family of Mamita Meher. I was shocked by how certain media have launched a malicious character assassination campaign based on falsehood against me. This has also hurt my family. Therefore, my family has filed a criminal and civil defamation case against three media groups for defaming me and assassinating my character with false, malicious and wild allegations for furthering their narrow personal and political gains,” said Mishra.Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling grampanchayat of Kalahandi district allegedly strangled to death 26-year-old Mamita Meher, a teacher in the school, in his car somewhere in Kalahandi district on October 8 after the latter allegedly threatened to expose her extramarital affairs. He then allegedly dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. He was arrested on October 19 and is now in judicial custody. Since then, the opposition has been stridently demanding his sacking from the Naveen Patnaik ministry alleging his complicity with Sahu.“As an MLA, I have attended functions at many educational institutions. In fact, public representatives are supposed to attend functions in educational institutions. Therefore, a crime happening in any one of the institutions that I have visited as a guest for functions cannot be attributed to me,” he said, alleging that a smear campaign by some media houses and opposition political parties was on.“These media houses, apart from their smear campaign, have also been questioning my silence. I have always believed that in case of sensitive, heinous offences, law enforcement agencies should act in a free and fair manner so that the accused meet the ends of justice. Hence, I always avoided commenting on heinous offences. But I felt the need to give a statement as this smear campaign has been affecting my family,” he said.The minister’s statement came on the day a three-member central BJP team, comprising the party’s Mahila Morcha National President Vanathi Srinivasan, Lok Sabha MP from Haryana Sunita Duggal and West Bengal MLA Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, met the family of Mamita Meher at her native village Jharni under Tureikela block of Bolangir district.“The family is in shock. We have doubts about the process of investigation by the police department. How did Gobinda Sahu escape from police custody? The close links of the Minister (Mishra) with the main accused have been established. We demand the resignation of the ninster,” said Vanathi Srinivasan.Duggal said the BJP team would prepare a report in this regard and submit it to BJP president JP Nadda. “Her (Mamita’s) parents want death sentence for those involved in the murder case and we will try our best to ensure justice to the victim’s family,” said Duggal.On Thursday, AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala demanded the arrest of Mishra alleging his role in the murder conspiracy as well as his sacking from the Naveen Patnaik ministry.“If he (minister Mishra) supervises the investigation then who will punish the culprits? Until the minister has not been removed, the Naveen Patnaik-led government would not be able to punish the criminals. Is it not true that murder-accused Gobinda Sahu had direct links with Mishra. Isn’t it true that Mishra and other ministers of the BJD government were staying at the educational institute? The way the teacher was murdered here in Kalahandi reminds the 2012 brutal rape of Nirbhaya in Delhi. The BJD has made the land of Jagannath a crime-prone one. Murderers and criminals are wielding power in the state. And the victim’s family is running from pillar to the post for justice,” asked Surjewala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-minister-in-crosshairs-of-opposition-in-female-teacher-murder-case-says-he-s-being-maligned-101635523797967.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Deepotsav: Five earthen lamps from every Uttar Pradesh village to light up Ayodhya||Five earthen lamps from every village of Uttar Pradesh would help illuminate Ayodhya during the Deepotsav celebrations on the Diwali eve on November 3.As such, the Deepotsav would start on November 1.The respective district magistrates of all the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh would be entrusted with the task of ensuring that the proposed five earthen lamps from each of the over 90,000 villages of the state reach Ayodhya well in time, said a senior state tourism department official.This year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced that nine lakh (0.9 million) diyas (earthen lamps) would be lit on the occasion in Ayodhya— one diya each for an estimated nine lakh beneficiaries of the PM’s and CM’s Awas Yojanas (housing schemes) in the urban areas of Uttar Pradesh.To ensure that the target of lighting the minimum nine lakh diyas is not missed, officials are planning to light 12 lakh earthen lamps so that a new world record is set during Deepotsav, the last one before the 2022 assembly polls, the official added.Since 2017, the Yogi Adityanath government has been holding the Deepotsav function in Ayodhya, beginning with 51,000 earthen lamps in the inaugural year to 4,10,000 diyas in 2019 and 6,06,569 earthen lamps in 2020 —setting newer Guinness World Records.Deputy director (Tourism), Lucknow, Dinesh Kumar, who has additional charge of Prayagraj, said a decision to have each village of the state contribute five earthen lamps for the Deepotsav celebration has been taken at the state level recently at a meeting held in Lucknow.“District magistrates would be appointed nodal officers for this initiative,” he explained.Another senior official of the state tourism department confirmed the move and said that missives to all DMs would be issued any moment now.Prayagraj district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri said, “It is a welcome step which will allow all villages and districts of the state to be part of the celebrations at Ayodhya.”The district tourism department officials, under the supervision of the district magistrates, would contact the elected gram pradhans and rural potters across the state to ensure that these over 4.5 lakh diyas (five from each of the over 90,000 villages of the state).The villages include around 2800 of Prayagraj district, over 2000 of Pratapgarh district, over 800 of Kaushambi and over 1300 of Fatehpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deepotsav-five-earthen-lamps-from-every-uttar-pradesh-village-to-light-up-ayodhya-101635523733746.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Those joining Samajwadi Party from Congress are brave: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday described as “brave” the leaders who are joining the SP after quitting the Congress.He also said “we will make a better temple” when he was asked about BJP’s attack on him for not making any contribution to the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The SP chief did not specify where and what kind of temple would he get built.He also claimed that farmers have decided to vote the BJP out of power and said that the ruling party was beset by internal differences due to which the “double engine government” at the Centre and in the state were at loggerheads.The BJP would not win the 2022 UP assembly polls even if it denied tickets to all its sitting MLAs, he predicted at a press conference.He made the remark about “brave leaders” as Harendra Malik and Pankaj Malik, a politically influential Jat father-son duo from western Uttar Pradesh, joined the Samajwadi Party after resigning from the Congress. Soon after their resignation from the party last fortnight, the Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had called the Congress leaders going to other parties “kaayar (cowards)”.Harendra Malik is a former Congress Rajya Sabha member and four-time ex-MLA. His son Pankaj Malik was the Congress MLA from Baghra assembly constituency in Muzaffarnagar. He later represented the Shamli assembly constituency.Harendra Malik said: “If there is any party that can remove the BJP from power, it’s the SP.”Pankaj Malik said: “We have to make the SP win and make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister again.”Addressing a press conference at the SP state headquarters, Akhilesh also said, “If any community is the most distressed, it’s the farmers. And I am happy that farmers have decided to weed the BJP out.”He accused the BJP government of being responsible for all the deaths due to Covid in the state.When asked if the Samajwadi Party would reserve tickets for women in the same manner in which the Congress has promised Akhilesh said: “We will give tickets to winnable women candidates”.On October 19, the Congress had announced that it will reserve 40% tickets for the 2022 UP assembly polls for women contestants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/those-joining-samajwadi-party-from-congress-are-brave-akhilesh-yadav-101635523373745.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district reports 233 new cases, five deaths||PUNE On Friday, Pune district has reported 233 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,939 deaths and 3,759 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 31,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 113 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 365,220 and the death toll stood at 6,888 as five more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 57 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 520,663 and the death toll stood at 9,199 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 63 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 268,598 and the toll stood at 3,503 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 31,477 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 12,069,119. Of which 7,828,790 are first doses and 4,240,329 are second doses. A total of 736 sites saw vaccination of which 536 were government centres and 200 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-reports-233-new-cases-five-deaths-101635523193603.html
29-10-2021||Pune||No local trains between Pune and Lonavla on October 30||PUNE No local trains will run between Pune and Lonavla on Saturday, as the Mumbai division has planned a special traffic block at Lonavla station for the technical work.To facilitate commuters the Pune rail division has allowed selected local trains which to operate between Talegaon and Pune.“Taking note that commuters should not suffer, Pune railway division will run selected trains between Pune-Talegaon on Saturday,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson Pune railway division.On a regular basis six local trains operate between Pune and Lonavla.Selected local trains between Pune-Talegoan todayDeparture from PuneTrain No; Departure From Pune; Arrival to Talegaon01558; 6:30 hours; 7.18 hours.01560; 8.05 hours; 8.53 hours01586; 8.57 hours; 9.47hours01574 ; 19.5 hours; 19.55 hours01576; 20.00 hours; 20.50 hoursDeparture from TalegaonTrain No; Departure From Talegaon; Arrival to Pune01553; 7:26 hours; 8.15 hours.01557; 9 hours; 9.50 hours01587; 9.57 hours; 10.50 hours01571 ; 20.2 hours; 20.55 hours01573; 21.07 hours; 22.00 hours||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-local-trains-between-pune-and-lonavla-on-october-30-101635523013647.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Sassoon hospital doctors in Pune extract huge tumour from 3-day old baby||PUNE Doctors at the Sassoon General Hospital have performed a successful surgery on a three-day-old neonate to remove a 550-gramme tumour. The male child was born to Sushma Akash Prakshale on October 13. The baby was diagnosed to have the tumour much later during pregnancy and was delivered through normal delivery under the care of Dr Shilpa Naik, obstetrician at Sassoon Hospital. The paediatric surgeons at the hospital operated on the baby on October 16 as an emergency surgery since the baby had gross abdominal distension, hypertension and respiratory distress. “We have successfully removed a complete tumour in relation to the left kidney. lt was mainly cystic with solid areas within. The weight of the excised tumour was about 550 gms while the baby’s weight at the time was about 3.5kg. Baby was extubated after surgery and has been vitally stable.” said Dr Naik.The surgery was done by a team led by the head of the department, Dr Minakshi Nalbale-Bhosale, along with Dr Rupesh Sikchi and Dr Naina Ramchandani. Anaesthesiologists were Dr Surekha Shinde and Dr Sunita Khedkar. Dr Naik further added, “The tumour was very large. Though his vital parameters have been stable in the post-operative period, he required phototherapy in view of neonatal jaundice. Now, the baby has recovered very well, his blood pressure has stabilised, the wound has healed well and the baby is about to be discharged. Dr Vinavak Kale, dean, Sassoon hospital said, “The parents were immensely grateful to doctors of Sassoon for rendering a second life to their precious son, since the mother has been divorced once for losing three babies in early neonatal period to various causes. We can now provide surgical services to these delicate babies. We are proud of our team.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-doctors-in-pune-extract-huge-tumour-from-3-day-old-baby-101635522593695.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Covid testing in Pune drops, as positivity rate stays above state average||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate between October 21 and October 27, is the highest in the state.As per the weekly combined positivity rate, Pune district reported a 2.9% positivity rate between October 13 and October 19, during which Pune reported 2,884 positive cases of the 100,366 samples tested. In the following week, between October 21 and October 27, the district saw 88,314 samples tested of which 2,225 positives were reported, which took the positivity rate to 2.5%.Pune has been one of the worst affected districts in the state and for a long time reported the highest active cases, and at one point also reported the highest active cases in the country. Now, the number of new Covid-19 cases has been going down, but so has number of tests.Despite a drop in the number of cases, 659 fewer cases, a drastic drop in the number of tests (12,000 fewer tests), the district has the highest positivity rate in the state as 2.5 people test positive for every 100 samples collected, while the state records only 1.4 new patients for every 100 samples.Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, said, “Pune has been testing more samples per million of the population than any other district in the state and at one point more than any other district in the country. We are testing even more than what we were testing during the first wave as well and the overall positivity rate is lower than what it was throughout the pandemic. However, I am in touch with all the authorities in the district and have instructed them to further increase the number of tests so that the positivity rate comes down further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-testing-in-pune-drops-as-positivity-rate-stays-above-state-average-101635522413642.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Pune Metro will launch in December: Vanaz to Garware College||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation will begin commercial operations of the Pune Metro operation from December this year, Maha-Metro announced at a press conference on Friday. The exact date, however, was not announced. Pune Metro will run on priority sections, Tukaram nagar to Phugewadi in Pimpri-Chinchwad and from Vanaz to Garware College in Pune. Vinodkumar Agrawal, director operations and systems, Maha-Metro, said, “Metro’s operations on priority sections will start by December and we got all necessary permissions for it. The stations’ work has been 60 per cent complete and the railway work on these routes is hundred per cent complete. “ Maha-Metro officials said that it tickets would be between Rs10 and ₹60, but this has not yet been finalised. Metro officials said that the push is to attract commuters and to establish last-mile connectivity. With civic elections scheduled early next year, the December launch of the Metro seems apt. The BJP has already announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be invited to inaugurate the Pune Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-will-launch-in-december-vanaz-to-garware-college-101635522182790.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||PWD plans to develop FOB at Turbhe on Sion-Panvel Highway||From next year, the residents of Turbhe will not have to cross the busy Sion-Panvel highway risking their lives as the state Public Works Department (PWD) has planned to develop a foot over bridge (FOB) in the area.Over the past three months, the PWD conducted multiple surveys in that area and also prepared a detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed FOB. A senior officer from PWD said, “The local residents of Turbhe have long been demanding a FOB to cross the highway there. Due to the lack of such an infrastructure, now they have to cross the busy highway risking their lives. Quite a few people met with accidents while crossing the road like that in the past. Therefore, taking the gravity of the issue into consideration, we are planning to develop a FOB across the highway.”“We sent the DPR for reviewing by our higher authorities a few days ago and will start working at the site as soon as we receive their approval. The site we have selected for the FOB is very close to the area where the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC) is widening a flyover on the highway. We will need a budget of around ₹1Cr for this project,” the officer further said.According to traffic officials, around two lakh vehicles ply on Sion-Panvel highway daily. The 25 km long highway connects Greater Mumbai with the Mumbai-Pune Expressway and Mumbai-Goa Highway via Navi Mumbai.Suresh Waghmare, 43, a resident of Turbhe said, “The residents of this area are being forced to cross the highway for the past several years. Initially, the number of vehicles plying on the road was not so high and hence it was not so risky to cross it. The number of vehicles has increased manifold in the past decade and now it is next to impossible to cross the highway specifically during peak hours. We are glad that PWD is now thinking of developing a FOB in this area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pwd-plans-to-develop-fob-at-turbhe-on-sion-panvel-highway-101635522058949.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Cinema halls, theatres in Delhi to operate at 100% capacity from November 1||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued an order easing several Covid-19 related restrictions in the national capital ahead of the festive season. The various relaxations offered by the DDMA would come into effect from November 1.Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes in the city would be allowed to operate at full seating capacity from Monday. They were closed in April during the second wave of the infections and were offered partial respite in July, when the government allowed them to operate at 50% seating capacity.The DDMA also noted it would be the responsibility of the owners of the cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes for the “strict adherence” to the standard operating protocol (SOP), following the official guidelines regarding Covid-19 and Covid-appropriate behaviour at the locations.Also read | DDMA allows Chhath Puja at designated sites; bars celebrations at Yamuna“In case any violation is found, strict penal, criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant, bar, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes,” news agency PTI reported quoting an excerpt from the DDMA order.Further, the maximum attendance at events like marriages and last rites has been increased in the city to 200 from the 100 people allowed previously. Also, the DDMA has now allowed meetings and conferences in banquet halls, where only marriages and exhibitions were allowed earlier.However, the ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural and religious gatherings would continue to prevail in the city. Also, restaurants and bars would continue to remain operational with half the capacity while metro trains and buses would ply with full seating capacity and no standing passengers.The relaxations have been offered amid the reducing number of daily infections in the city. Also, the sixth sero survey found that 97% of the surveyed population had antibodies against Covid-19. “The recent serosurvey shows that 97% of people have developed antibodies. It means most of the people have either been infected with the disease earlier or have taken COVID-19 jabs,” news agency ANI had quoted Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain as saying.On Friday, the DDMA also allowed Chhat Puja at designated places in the city and barred the celebrations at the banks of river Yamuna. The DDMA noted that the celebrations in November would be allowed only at designated sites outside the Covid-19 containment zones and with requisite permission from the district magistrate.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cinema-halls-theatres-in-delhi-to-operate-at-100-capacity-from-november-1-101635521424872.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||UP first state to administer 13 crore Covid vaccine doses, says Yogi||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh on Friday become the first state in the country to administer 13 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses and aimed to cover all eligible people, with at least the first dose, by December 15.“Today, UP has become the first state in the country to provide a protective cover of 13 crore doses of Covid vaccine. This historic achievement is dedicated to the guidance of respected Prime Minister, commitment of corona warriors and disciplined public cooperation,” the CM said in a tweet in Hindi. “When it’s your turn, you must also get the vaccine ‘Teeka Jeet ka’,” he added. According to data from the health department, 13,00,30,683 doses had been administered by 7pm, including 9,78,40,183 first doses and 3,21,90,500 second doses. “UP is the only state in the country to achieve this figure in Covid vaccination. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directions to speed up vaccination and ordered officers to deliver vaccine doses to 100% eligible population of the state by December 15,” said a state government spokesperson in a press statement. About 66.14 % of the state’s total eligible adult population had received at least one dose, while around 21.51% was fully immunised, according to the data. UP accounts for the maximum fully vaccinated population (3.21crore), followed by Maharashtra (3.05 crore), said the spokesperson. “The CM has asked health officials to come up with a special drive to motivate people towards vaccination,” he added. UP will adopt the Cluster Model 2.0 from November 1 to improve the second dose coverage in the state. Earlier this week, additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad, had told health officials, “Giving priority to full vaccination, the work of administering the second dose using the cluster model 2.0 should be done in those villages/localities where the first dose was successfully administered through the cluster model.” UP’s active caseload had fallen below 100 and the recovery rate was 98.8%. No active case surfaced in 40 districts of the state. Uttar Pradesh saw eight fresh Covid cases while 12 people were discharged after treatment in the last 24 hours, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. So far, 16,87,135 people had recovered from Covid in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-first-state-to-administer-13-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-says-yogi-101635520913610.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation to approach colleges to update voters’ list for next civic elections||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has announced a month-long programme to update the voters’ list from November 1 to 30 as a part of the preparations for the next civic elections.In order to add new voters to the list, this time the civic body would approach the colleges in its vicinity.“We would need the cooperation of the colleges in the city to get the youth who turn 18 years by January 1, 2022 to get them registered in the voters’ list. Every college should help the civic body in getting it done,” said Sunil Pawar, additional commissioner, KDMC.There are around 29,000 college-going students in the KDMC limits. Every ward office in the city will have the forms available to help the youth to enrol themselves in the voters’ list.“We will also want the colleges to give these forms to their students and get them enrolled from their side. A nodal officer will be appointed to get this done,” added Pawar.The colleges that help in doing 100% registration of youth in the voters’ list will be honoured with certificates.The voters’ list updating programme would not only help register new voters but also help the existing voters to change their names, addresses in the list.Meanwhile, the civic body would also carry out several awareness programmes through banners, hoardings, posters and jingles.The voters’ list would be published on the https://ceo.maharashtra.gov.in website from November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-municipal-corporation-to-approach-colleges-to-update-voters-list-for-next-civic-elections-101635520553672.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation’s special vaccination drive in Mumbra gets poor response||Despite merely 28% population in Mumbra ward being vaccinated so far, the special vaccination drive set up in this suburb by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has received lukewarm response on Thursday and Friday.Only 3,000 people, as opposed to the 6,000 targeted, have got jabbed. Apart from Mumbra, the vaccination is also slow-paced in Uthalsar with 52% population vaccinated with at least the first dose while around 20%-30% got jabbed in Lokmanya Sawarkar Nagar.TMC claimed that the reluctance among people to get the first dose of vaccination was the main hurdle.TMC has, till now, given 16 lakh doses of vaccine whereas it has a target population of 18 lakh to be double vaccinated. Out of this, around 91% of the population in Kalwa ward, 80% of the population in Wagle Estate, 52% in Uthalsar and more than 100% in Majiwada-Manpada and Vartak Nagar wards are vaccinated with at least the first dose.These are data provided by TMC of those who have availed the vaccination facility within their jurisdiction and includes both private and government vaccination figures.“There are some who do not want to get vaccinated while there are some others who are not sure of the benefits of the vaccine. However, since the last one month, most are delaying the vaccination process by citing the current festive season. As vaccinations often have side effects, many are not keen on falling ill during the festivities. This is the reason we have adopted various modes to understand how many actually have been vaccinated within Thane city,” said a senior officer from TMC.TMC claimed that those not vaccinated in its jurisdiction must be vaccinated elsewhere and thus the data cannot be relied. “As we have access to those availing the vaccination facility within the TMC jurisdiction only, we have a team that calls those who have only taken the first dose of the vaccine and are due to take the second. Almost 80% of the calls we have made so far have been fully vaccinated elsewhere – in a different city or through workplace vaccinations,” said Dr Prasad Patil, vaccination officer, TMC.TMC has assigned ward-wise individuals for both surveys and to make calls to keep track of the number of vaccinations. “As we cannot keep track of the vaccinations occurring beyond our jurisdiction or visit the lakhs of population by door-to-door, it is getting difficult to reach 100% vaccination mark. However, through mass drives in wards that have had a lukewarm response and through our various campaigns, we are trying to make vaccination accessible and increase awareness by reaching out to religious leaders in these areas,” added Patil.In all TMC vaccination centres, preference is given to those who are residents of Thane city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-s-special-vaccination-drive-in-mumbra-gets-poor-response-101635520315610.html
29-10-2021||Patna||Five dead, multiple others ill after consuming liquor in dry state Bihar||Five persons have died and several others fell ill after consuming liquor in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar, where total prohibition is in place for more than five years. Police said the incident took place in Rupauli village under Saraiya police station on Thursday night and four of them died at the hospital this morning. The fifth person's body was found near his house. Two persons, including a member of the local panchayat samiti, have been arrested in connection with the incident, police added. This is the second incident of death due to consumption of suspected spurious liquor in north Bihar in the last one week. Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police Jayant Kant said that preliminary investigation has revealed that the five died after consuming a certain poisonous substance. Post-mortem will determine the exact cause of death. The SSP said, “Police recovered a stack of empty liquor and methyl alcohol bottles from the house of one those who died in the incident. Searches are being conducted in the surrounding areas and a team of forensic experts has been engaged by the police". The five dead have been identified by the local police. A local police officer said that a group of villagers had organised a liquor party in the house of one of those dead in the incident. The health of five persons deteriorated after they consumed the liquor and four of them were admitted to a nearby hospital where they died this morning. The body of the owner of the house was found near it. There are reports that some more villagers who had attended the party have been admitted to different hospitals and the police are collecting their details, he said. In the earlier incident five persons had died in a village in Siwan district. The Nitish Kumar government had banned the manufacture, trade, storage, transportation, sale and consumption of liquor in the state on April 5, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/five-dead-multiple-others-ill-after-consuming-liquor-in-dry-state-bihar-101635517844349.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Students worried about state health department’s recruitment exam on Oct 31||PUNE Aspirants who are to appear for the state health department’s recruitment examination on Sunday, October 31, are now worried as the state could cancel or postpone the exam at the eleventh hour, the precedent for which was set in September when the exam was postponed.Thousands of aspirants will travel from villages and hometowns to Pune to appear for the exam.“I am from Kolhapur and Pune is my centre. If I travel to Pune and then the examination gets cancelled it will be financially difficult for me and my family. Already we have spent ₹10,000 on this entire process,” said Aditya Mohite, an aspirant.The state health department has given the Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL), the agency that conducted the first round of the exam on October 24, 48 house to explain why that exam was a mess in terms of it being managed properly. The state has threatened to black-list NCPL.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior official of the state health department said, “The firm has not yet given their explanation for the mismanagement on October 24, so they are to continue with the October 31 examinations at all centres.”As many as 800,000 job aspirants have applied for various posts in the group C and group D categories under the public health department. “The future of thousands of students is dependent on such recruitment exams. If due to such mismanagement a student is not able to qualify then whose responsibility is it?” asked Shailesh Kshirsagar, an aspirant from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-worried-about-state-health-department-s-recruitment-exam-on-oct-31-101635520013904.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Pune airport set to resume flight operations from October 30||PUNE With the festive season commencing from the weekend huge rush of people is expected at Pune airport in Lohegaon as it resumes flight operation from 8am-8pm from Saturday. However, the airport will continue to remain shut for night operation till November 30.The Pune airport was closed between October 16-29 as the Indian Air Force (IAF) had undertaken runway resurfacing work.At least 56 flights will be operational from Pune airport from Saturday. The first flight is scheduled for Delhi at 9:05 am.Pune airport official handle tweeted, “Flight operations will resume at #PuneAirport w.e.f. 30-Oct-2021. Please note that flights will operate from 08:00am to 08:00 pm from 30-Oct-21 to 30-Nov-21. In view of expected rush due to the festive season, pls reach the Airport 2-3 hours before departure.” (sic)“The current timings of airport operation will be 8am to 8pm and it will continue till November 30 and from December 1 – 24hrs service at the airport will start,” said Santosh Dhoke, director, Lohegaon airport.The travelling agents in the city have also noticed a surge in the inquiries of the tickets. The inquiries are expected to increase more after 15 days.“Generally, many flights reshuffle their itinerary during the winter season. So many people are getting different itineraries and many flights are rescheduled. No doubt there is a demand as always, but in one week or 15 days the picture will be clearer, ” said Ashwin Kardekar, director of My Travelogue Holidays Pvt Ltd.With travelling bans relaxed in the majority of states, people have started planning trips and airport reopening is a big relief for people.“Domestic traffic will go up as people are willing to go outstation. While many people are still not making any international travel plans,” added Kardekar.Right now, only domestic flights are operational from the Pune airport. After 24 hours of operation starts, many are expecting airport authorities to start flights for Dubai which were put on halt after the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020.“We are still not receiving booking or queries like pre-Covid days and we expect if the third wave does not hit then we can expect more people willing for vacations till the coming summer season,” said Mihir Mulay, director of Mid Earth Outdoors.Many travellers who plan a one-day business trip will face difficulty as they prefer early morning flights and come back by evening flight.“I have three visits to Chennai every week and the morning 5am flight is what I prefer. I will have to rework my schedule to adjust with new timings as going to Mumbai is not suitable,” said Mayur Patel, a resident from Karve nagar.New facilities at airport terminalThe airport authorities have made some infrastructure changes to the airport which will help better crowd management at the airport.“In 15 days, we have done many improvements in the terminal buildings. Tiles have been replaced by granite. The road from cate No. 1 to airport entry has been widened which will help to decongest the traffic. There were five X-Ray machines at the security checks and one more has been increased and the area has been also widened at the security check so people consume less time for security checking,” added Dhoke.“Flights at the airport will increase in coming days as the IAF has permitted to increase the slots,” added Dhoke.Before shutting down for repair works –the daily footfall at the airport was touching 13,000 to 14,000 per day with flight movement of 60 flights per day.After the year 2008, it was the second time the airport was closed for 14 days for runway repair works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-set-to-resume-flight-operations-from-october-30-101635519234281.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Citizens travelling abroad for tourism can take second dose of Covid vaccine after 28 days||After the students, patients, people travelling for work, now the tourists going abroad will be able to take their second dose after completion of 28 days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday has announced.The BMC has allowed reducing the gap for the second dose of Covishield to 28 days against the requisite period of 84 days. The BMC said that the decision was taken after the repeated requests they have been getting after the unlock. According to BMC, those citizens of the age 18 years and above, must have a valid passport to avail of this concession. Post-vaccination of such citizens, the passport number will be included in the vaccination certificate. The circular issued by the BMC states that the coordinating officer (nodal officer) at the vaccination centres will certify the application in the prescribed form from the beneficiaries and upload it on the Co-WIN system.Earlier two months ago, the BMC had decided to reduce the vaccine gap for those citizens having to travel for availing treatment services for any health problem or foreign national who has to return to their country or any such circumstances, in which foreign travel may be unavoidable. In such cases, a dispensation of the second dose vaccination before the mandatory period of 84 days after the first dose, is being considered currently.Further, on June 7 this year, the Central government had issued a circular allowing the minimum time gap to be reduced to 28 days for a second dose of Covishield from the existing 84 days for students going abroad, those travelling for work or going to participate in the Tokyo Olympics.Meanwhile, on Friday 49,052 citizens were vaccinated taking the total count to 14,065,579 and 5,262,647 citizens are fully vaccinated. The BMC plans to vaccinate the entire adult eligible population of 9.2 million by February 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/citizens-travelling-abroad-for-tourism-can-take-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-after-28-days-101635519173565.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||UP school principal jailed for dangling child upside down as ‘punishment’ for eating gol gappas||The principal of a school in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district has been sent to jail after he dangled a five-year-old student upside down from the first floor of the building as punishment for eating gol gappas, police said in a statement on Friday.A video of the incident, which occurred on Thursday, went viral on social media and showed other children of Sadbhavna Shikshan Sansthan Junior High School watching in shock as principal Manoj Vishwakarma dangled the child upside down. Police noted that the child was punished as he ate gol gappas at a stall outside the school without informing the teacher. As soon as the minor student returned to the school, Vishwakarma grabbed him by his ankles and turned him upside down.
29-10-2021||Other||53-yr-old man arrested in Assam for molesting daughter||A 53-year-old man was arrested in Assam’s Cachar district after his 19-year-old daughter lodged an FIR of molestation against him, officials said. The incident took place on Wednesday at Silcoorie area under Ghungoor Police Station in Sonai Assembly constituency. Officer in charge of Ghungoor Police Station, Chandan Borah, said that a 19-year-old girl came to the police station on Thursday along with her mother and lodged an FIR against her father for molesting her. “She alleged that her 53-year-old father attempted to molest her on Wednesday in absence of her mother. The man, according to the girl, was drunk and this was one of his many attempts. After an initial medical checkup, we registered a case against the man and arrested him. He will be produced before the court on Friday evening,” the officer in charge said. The girl’s mother informed that this was not the first time that her husband attempted to molest her daughter. She said, “My daughter is 19-year-old now but my husband has been trying to get sexual advantage from her since she was a minor. I informed to the other family members and some neighbours. At one point, he apologised and promised not to repeat this but he was clearly lying. Now I want strict action to be taken against him.”In another incident, a 60-year-old man has been arrested for raping his minor niece. Officer in charge of Dholai police station Sahab Uddin confirmed that the man was arrested on Thursday evening immediately after the minor girl lodged a complaint. The superintendent of police of Cachar district has assured that strong action is taken against the culprits. Both the cases will be investigated thoroughly. She said, “We are strictly against such activities. Abusive attitudes towards children and women are not tolerated. I have ordered a proper investigation in both cases and we can ensure that strict actions will be taken against the culprits”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/53yrold-man-arrested-in-assam-for-molesting-daughter-101635517914639.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Light rainfall likely in Pune in first week of November: IMD||PUNE Although the southwest monsoon has withdrawn from Maharashtra in early October, November is likely to start on a wet note for the state. In Pune as well thunderstorms and lighting along with rainfall is likely in the first week of November, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD).Pune, on Friday, reported night temperature at 14.9 degrees Celsius, making it the coldest day of the season so far. As per IMD, the minimum temperature is likely to remain around 15 to 17 degrees Celsius in the next few days.As per weather department officials, a low-pressure area lies over Southwest Bay of Bengal adjoining Sri Lanka off Tamil Nadu coast.It is likely to move westwards till November 2.“A trough in easterlies runs from the cyclonic circulation associated with this low-pressure area to north coastal Andhra Pradesh,” said IMD officials.Under the influence of the above systems, weather scientists said that southern states may receive light to heavy rainfall.In Maharashtra and Pune as well, rainfall along with thunderstorms and lighting is likely in isolated parts.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department at IMD, Pune, said that isolated places in subdivisions across Maharashtra may receive light rainfall in the first week of November.“Rainfall activity will be isolated with thunderstorms and lighting. Some places in central Maharashtra may receive rainfall along with thunderstorms and lighting,” said Kashyapi.He further added that till October end, Pune will not receive any rains.“However, from November 1, Pune is likely to witness cloudy weather. And from November 2, Pune is likely to get light rainfall along with thunderstorms and lighting till November 4,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/light-rainfall-likely-in-pune-in-first-week-of-november-imd-101635517253471.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Irrigation dept fires first salvo on PMC’s riverfront development project||PUNE The state irrigation department has issued a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) warning the civic body about making changes to the city’s rivers against the background of the planned riverfront development project. The term “future floods” figures significantly in the letter. Civic activists have moved the the irrigation department raising various issues with the planned river developement. In the letter, dated October 28, the irrigation department say: “In the name of riverfront development, don’t dump materials into the river. While executing project, ensure that there would be no hurdless for water flow. Don’t divert the flow of the river.”Civic activists Sarang Yadwadkar, Vivek Velankar, and Vijay Kumbhar, among others have objected to the river plan.Yadwadkar said, “PMC general body approved this Rs4,727 crore project, but elected members have discussed it at the general body meeting. The project is going to impact the whole city.”Velankar said, “Pune is already a flood-affected city. While executing such projects, civic administration and elected members should address the citizens’ objections. We are asking various questions, but administration claims that the consultant will answer the doubts. Consultant will fly away after getting the fees, but citizens will suffer. If the project is owned by PMC, administration must answer all the questions raised by activist and citizens.”Yadwadkar said that the National Green Tribunal has already been moved on objections to this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/irrigation-dept-fires-first-salvo-on-pmc-s-riverfront-development-project-101635516953358.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Diversity, Empathy and Inclusivity||“A girl’s night in: as the conversation unfolds, my thoughts were about how diverse each one of us is. How unique our interests are. Imagine giving us a standardised test!” wrote educationist and founder of a prestigious chain of schools and self-proclaimed happiness and peace advocate Lina Asher, this week in the gratitude journal that she shares on social media. Asher was referring to a group of women whose talent pool included activities as diverse as social work, hiking, pole dancing, new age healing and cross-cultural rapping! “Every child on Earth is talented. Just not in the same way. Education does not honour that uniqueness as it puts us all in the same standardised box of learning and assessing who we are and what our talents and gifts are.” The championing of individuality and diversity appears to be at the crux of Asher’s career as an educationist, which had begun with a single 25-kids preschool in Bandra, and had blossomed to more than 70 across the country and a string of high schools in India and abroad. This individual holistic approach is perhaps also what prompted her to recently sell off her brick-and-mortar empire to embark on what appears to be a long-cherished dream: ‘establishing a happier, healthier and more sustainable online school, which works on the principles of high interest and engagement, interaction and a focus on individual gifts and talents each child has’. “It will solve a lot of what ails education. We will have highly paid teachers, learning that is designed for the technology era and it will be as low cost as possible as we will not have infrastructure and textbook costs. It is also kinder to the planet as it is less resource intensive,” she said about her newest initiative. As for her gratitude journal, which began at the start of the pandemic in response to a particular challenging phase exacerbated by family medical issues, she said her life-long research in education and neuro and behavioural sciences has taught her that gratitude and appreciation, practiced consciously and mindfully, helps people in coping with stressful, negative, and frustrating situations. “Grateful people are able to regulate their negative emotions. Gratitude helps us to think in more innovative and creative ways, which helps us build resources we can draw upon when things get difficult,” She said. Agreed. **************************************************************************************************************‘In some people’s life, a little rain must fall, in others, it seems to be raining all the time.’ This week, friends and fans of the Jafferbhai Mansuri family were particularly devastated to learn of the passing of Nida Mansuri, the youngest daughter of the legendary late Jafferbhai aka ‘The Biryani King of Mumbai.’ Occurring only 16 days after the family lost Lubna – their eldest daughter – this seems to be the cruellest blow. Nida, described as “a sweet God-fearing, affectionate kindergarten teacher” by those who knew her, succumbed to a sudden illness, a few days after complaining of stomach cramps at a south Mumbai hospital. “It’s been one blow after another,” said a stricken Farzana Contractor, publisher editor of Upper Crust and a close friend of the family. “How much can one family take? What is happening?” As is known, Jafferbhai, who had been a cherished institution in Mumbai for his Delhi Darbar restaurant and later with his Jaffer Bhai’s Delhi Darbar chain of eateries, passed away last September owing to a cardiac arrest, while being treated for Covid-19. “He was such a refined, soft spoken man, a dear friend of Behram’s,” said Contractor, referring to her husband, the late Behram (Busybee) Contactor, Mumbai’s much loved columnist and food writer, who’d been a champion of the signature chicken and mutton biryani, chicken tangdi, raan sikandari and daal ghosht, which emanated from the Jafferbhai kitchens. “And despite all his success and fame, he’d remained humble and grounded till the end. In fact, it had been Behram who’d first named him ‘The Biryani King of Mumbai’.” Contractor herself is no stranger to the multiple, cruel blows of fate: Twenty years ago, she had lost her beloved brother in a freak road accident on the same day that Behram had died. “I found myself thinking of that day when I heard about the passing of Nida,” she said, when we spoke, adding, “And wondering how on earth I had coped…” Speaking to Contractor brought to mind one among the many memorable and poignant sentences that Behram himself had penned on the subject of multiple blows, during his illustrious career as Busybee. “In some people’s life, a little rain must fall, in others-it seems to be raining all the time,” the late great Busybee had written – as always, incisive and heartbreakingly true… *****************************************************************************************************Say what you may, but IMHO the 2.18-minute clip ‘Not Just A Cadbury Ad’ is the nicest sparkler to emerge in this season of lights. For those who’ve been in Mars, I’m referring to the latest advertisement from the multinational confectionary brand that has, through the help of machine learning technology, turned Shah Rukh Khan, the country’s biggest brand ambassador, into the brand ambassador for hundreds of local businesses across India, in a bid to brighten up their sales after the long, lean months of the pandemic. Clad in an exquisite cream silk sherwani and looking every inch the Badshah he is, SRK can be made to mouth the name of a hundred different small brands and establishments that would have never been able to afford his services until now. “Big businesses and brands that suffered during the pandemic found their way back but the smaller stores still suffer. It is impossible to cover all the stores, so we gave people the power to create their own version of not just a Cadbury ad,” the clip says, going on to explain how it can be customised by any brand to market its own products. Hearteningly, the response to this generous spirited initiative has been unanimously positive, with many appreciating the spirit of inclusivity and benevolence it fosters. Many of the responses are particularly appreciative of the fact that the chocolate producer has not allowed SRK’s recent travails to affect his engagement with them. As one appreciative fan posted: “Let’s hope SRK’s Diwali is meetha too.” Happy Diwali gentle readers, may yours be as sweet as it is bright.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-diversity-empathy-and-inclusivity-101635516778698.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body acquires new ladder platform vehicles to trim branches up to 23m high||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) garden department has acquired four state-of-the-art aerial ladder platform vehicles (LPV) to trim tree branches that are up to 23m high.The civic garden department presently has three vehicles to facilitate cutting of branches that have grown to such an extent that they cause hurdles for traffic and street lights.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “With just three vehicles, there was a need for more vehicles in the city to ensure all areas are covered. We also needed vehicles that can help reach greater height as the current vehicles help reach only 13m. Our personnel face difficulties in removing branches that are higher.”Hence, the four new LPVs of 2,820mm wheelbase with smaller chassis have been acquired by the civic body for the garden department. It will ensure that the vehicles can be used for trimming branches along narrow roads as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-acquires-new-ladder-platform-vehicles-to-trim-branches-up-to-23m-high-101635516777401.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Murder trial: Dabholkar’s neighbour takes stand as first witness||PUNE: The trial in the 2013 murder of Dr Narendra Dabholkar began in earnest as the first witness in the case was cross examined on Friday. An eerie silence befell the courtroom as an old identification card – a press accreditation card by Maharashtra government – and a diary of the slain rationalist was produced in court as part of evidence in his murder case on Friday.Avinash Davalbhakt (54), a panch, and the first witness to be examined was the former neighbour of Dabholkar in Pune and lived next door to where Dabholkar used to live twice aweek. A salesman at an ayurvedic company, Davalbhakt was one of the two panch witnesses in the original FIR registered by the Pune police in 2013.Davalbhakt lived in the adjacent flat in a building named Amey Apartment in 212, Shaniwar peth, where known politicians also reside. The flat was used by the late RG Jadhav, a writer who worked with Dabholkar’s Sadhana Trust. The flat was registered as owned by Sadhana Trust and Dabholkar lived there for twice a week.Additional Sessions Judge SR Navandar (special judge for UAPA cases) is hearing the case with five accused – Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave – and special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi, along with three defense lawyers including Advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, Prakash Shalsingikar, and Suvarna Vast.The special trial court has directed the prosecution to provide a copy of the CD containing video of the post-mortem procedure to the defense lawyers. The court also directed the SPP to provide copies of the x-ray plates in the case.“The Mumbai Forensic science laboratory (FSL) does not have the technical know-how to make the copy of the CD. So it will be sent to the Central FSL in Delhi. The x-ray plates will be provided by Mumbai FSL on A4 size photopaper,” said SPP Suryavanshi.In their cross-examination, Advocate Shalsingikar tried to discredit the panch witness by saying that he was a follower of a certain spiritual guru and his beliefs were not in line with what Dr Dabholkar preached.Dr Narendra Dabholkar, an anti-superstition rationalist, was on a walk on the morning of August 20, 2013, near Omkareshwar bridge in Pune when two bike-borne men shot him. The investigation has since been take up by the Central bureau of investigation (CBI). In an initial chargesheet filed by CBI, Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar were identified as shooters. In the second chargesheet filed by the CBI, Andure and Kalaskar were identified as shooters.In both the chargesheets, Tawade was found to be the main conspirator. Bhave was accused of helping the two shooters with the reccee, vehicle, and escape route. Punalekar was found to have advised one of the shooters to dispose of the weapon, after which Kalaskar allegedly threw parts of the weapons in the Thane creek. This information was provided by Kalaskar to the Karnataka police special investigation team (SIT) investigating the 2017 Gauri Lankesh murder in Bengaluru, Karnataka. While Punalekar is facing sole charge of destruction of evidence, all others are facing charges for terrorism, murder, and criminal conspiracy as per the charges framed against them. All have pleaded not guilty.Kalaskar and Andure have also been named in the 2017 murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh. Kalaskar was also found to have been involved in the August 2018 Nalasopara arms haul by Maharashtra Anti-terrorism squad. Bhave has been convicted in a bomb blast case for possession of explosives. The CBI has also alleged a larger conspiracy by the Sanatan Sanstha, to which all the present accused and their lawyer belong, to kill Dabholkar, Lankesh, and scholar MM Kalburgi in Dharwad, Karnataka in August 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/murder-trial-dabholkar-s-neighbour-takes-stand-as-first-witness-101635516233871.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Rabale police investigations reveal woman strangulated by relative||The post-mortem of a 36-year-old woman, suspected to have died by suicide, was found to be murder by strangulation after which Rabale police has arrested the relative of the deceased for killing her.The accused, identified as Samadhan Shrimant Landway (38), a bank employee and a relative of the deceased, was arrested on Thursday night.On October 21, the deceased, Shital Manohar Nikam, was found dead in the house with a suicide note that said that she was killing herself by her own will.“The family was under debt and the initial speculation was that she would have taken the extreme step due to the financial stress. But when the autopsy report confirmed that the death was due to strangulation, we started our investigations and suspected that Landway had killed her,” police inspector Bhaguji Auti from Rabale police station said.The deceased’s husband had taken a loan of ₹6.5 lakh from the accused. The accused had taken a personal loan from his bank on his name. The deceased and her husband had not been giving the money for the monthly EMI due to which Landway was under pressure from his workplace.During the investigations, police had found that the accused allegedly had an illicit relationship with the deceased and used to visit her daily when her kids went to classes and husband to work. On the day of the incident, others in the building had seen him coming to the society. The deceased referred to him as her cousin.“On the day of the incident, the accused demanded money and fought with her. The accused then made her write a suicide note and strangulated her. He tried to hang her but could not do so and left her lying on the floor. The door of the house was slightly open. Their two-year-old neighbour entered the house and behind him entered his grandmother and saw the deceased lying on the floor and then alerted her family,” Auti said.The accused was presented before the court on Friday and has been remanded to police custody till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rabale-police-investigations-reveal-woman-strangulated-by-relative-101635516173122.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Gati Shakti Express: India’s first 3-AC special train to have stoppage at Prayagraj Junction||‘Gati Shakti Express’, India’s first new 3-AC Economy coach special train that will connect the national capital (Anand Vihar Terminal) with Patna Junction, will also make a stop at Prayagraj, informed North Central Railway (NCR) officials. The train started its maiden run on Friday and shall make five trips in both directions till November 7 to cater to the rush of passengers during the upcoming festivals like Diwali and Chhath Puja, NCR officials added.“For the convenience of the rail passengers and to clear extra rush of passengers during ensuing festivals, Indian Railways has introduced a special train 01684/01683 Anand Vihar Terminal-Patna-Anand Vihar Terminal Gati Shakti Superfast Special train. It will have 20 new 3-AC Economy coaches,” informed Shivam Sharma, chief public relations officer of NCR.The train will depart from Anand Vihar Terminal at 11:10 pm on Friday and subsequently on October 31, November 2, November 5 and November 7 and will arrive at Patna Junction at 3:45 pm, the next day. On its return journey, train No 01683, would depart from Patna Junction at 5:45 pm on October 30, November 1, November 3, November 6 and November 8, and would arrive at Anand Vihar Terminal at 9:50 am, the next day.The train will have stoppages at Kanpur Central, Prayagraj Junction, Varanasi, Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction and Danapur stations in both directions.At present, Prayagraj-Jaipur and Prayagraj-Udhampur Express operate with AC-3 tier economy coaches.The AC-3 tier economy coaches have redesigned electrical panels, which have added additional floor space for passenger use. These coaches consist of 83 berths each which are 11 more than the existing three-tier AC coaches.The design of seats and berths have been improved, which are fire-proof, and with illuminated seat numbers. The coaches also boast comfortable and ergonomically designed climbing ladders for middle and upper berths as well as personalised AC vents, reading lights and USB charging sockets for each passenger. The coaches are equipped with elegant bottle holders and foldable snack tables which sink in sidewalls. These coaches also have the provision to facilitate entry and exit for Divyang passengers, and one toilet door is also Divyang friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gati-shakti-express-india-s-first-3-ac-special-train-to-have-stoppage-at-prayagraj-junction-101635516113269.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Alive, and beating the odds: Premature child weighing 480 gm born in Pune||PUNE A child born in June, believed to be the smallest, in terms of weight, to have survived a premature birth in Maharashtra, went home this past week after spending 100 days in the neo-natal ICU. The baby was born at a private hospital after 26 weeks of pregnancy by an emergency Caesarean section due to pregnancy-related hypertension in the mother. Weighing only 480 grammes, the baby was immediately put on to life support with a tiny endotracheal tube in the windpipe.The child was also wrapped in a plastic bag to prevent heat loss after birth. “In such babies, management within the first golden hour after birth is very important. Babies of this size need mechanical ventilator support immediately after birth due to immature lungs. Extreme preterm babies are also at risk of dangerous hypothermia due to immature skin and they need special incubator to prevent heat loss. Special catheters were inserted through babies umbilical cord for delivering nutrition and monitoring vital parameters”, said Dr Shrinivas Tambe, chief neonatologist, Jupiter Hospital, who treated the child. “The baby required mechanical ventilation for seven days and then breathing support was provided by CPAP machine for next 70 days. The baby had a condition called Patent Ductus Arteriosuswhich was picked up by a heart scan and successfully treated with medication. Milk feeds were started with 0.5ml every two hours and gradually increased to a full amount by the eighth day. The baby also had an episode of infection which was immediately diagnosed and treated by antibiotics,” added Dr Tambe.According to Dr Tambe, extreme preterm babies are at high-risk to develop infection, bleeding in the brain, ROP (abnormal development of blood vessels in the retina), Necrotising Enterocolitis (intestinal disorder), PDA (heart problem), and chronic lung disease. The child was discharged after 100 days in the neonatal ICU and weighed 2kg at the time of discharge, said the doctors. Currently the child is at home, gaining weight and showing signs of normal development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/alive-and-beating-the-odds-premature-child-weighing-480-gm-born-in-pune-101635515813130.html
29-10-2021||Ranchi||‘Probe still where it started’: Jharkhand HC upset at CBI in judge’s death case||RANCHI: The Jharkhand High Court on Friday observed that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has not conducted the investigation professionally and has levelled charges without any evidence to back it up in the charge sheet filed in connection with the alleged murder of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand.“The court observed that from the charge sheet, it was clear that CBI still remains where it started from. There has not been much of a difference between the investigation of the state police and CBI. They have filed the charge sheet without any clarity on the motive behind the murder, which will be considered a failure for a professional agency like CBI,” a lawyer who was present at Friday’s hearing, said. CBI, however, assured the court they are pursuing the investigation and they need some time to come up with concrete evidence to back their case. The court has fixed November 12 as the next date of hearing in the case.This is not the first time that the high court has conveyed its displeasure. Last week, the bench reprimanded CBI over its probe, pointing that the agency “did not inform the high court before filing the charge sheet despite the bench comprising the chief justice monitoring the process”. The bench also frowned at the status reports filed by CBI, saying the agency was filing a stereotyped report every week.Judge Uttam Anand was run over by an autorickshaw on July 28, an incident that sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district that night. Two persons — auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21 — were arrested two days later.Last week, the central agency filed the charge sheet against the duo under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. During the hearing on Friday last, CBI said they filed the charge sheet after consultation with officials in the headquarters, and efforts are underway to establish the motive and the conspiracy behind the alleged killing.The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to knock him down.The CBI took over the probe on July 31 after the top court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.In September, the central agency informed the high court that the judge’s death was not an accident and it was investigating all angles to unravel the conspiracy.Several people have been interrogated in the last three months and lie detector and psychoanalysis tests were also conducted on them, officials said.On the recruitment front, the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission submitted during the hearing on Friday that notification for recruitment in FSL has been cancelled as the rule regarding recruitment in the FSL has to be changed. “On the next date of hearing, the state government has to reply explaining the facts about change in rule and cancellation of notification,” the lawyer quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/probe-still-where-it-started-jharkhand-hc-upset-at-cbi-in-judge-s-death-case-101635515753721.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs-on-cruise case: Palghar trader files defamation case against Prabhakar Sail||The Palghar police on Thursday registered a non-cognisable offence against an independent witness in the cruise drug case, Prabhakar Sail for wrongfully using a 35-year-old Palghar trader’s photograph and mobile number as that of Sam D’souza, whose name has cropped up in the case.On Monday, trader Hanik Bafna had approached police after he began receiving calls regarding his involvement in the drugs case, in which, actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was among those arrested and subsequently released on bail by the high court.Senior inspector Ram Bhalsinh of Palghar police said, “We have registered a complaint under sections 500 (punishment for defamation) 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code against Sail and are investigating further.”As per the complaint, Bafna’s WhatsApp display picture and mobile phone number were circulated as that of one Sam D’Souza by Sail, an Andheri resident, who claimed to be the personal guard of Kiran Gosavi - a key witness in the cruise drug bust case. He revealed in a notarised affidavit that he overheard Gosavi talking to another person about a ₹18-crore deal, of which, ₹8 crore was alleged to be paid to NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Sail had alleged that ₹38 lakh was collected as the initial payment and it was handed over to Sam D’Souza in a white Innova car near a 7-star hotel.Bafna, who has known Sail since 2019 for business ventures, told the police that he was surprised that his picture and phone number was given as that of Sam D’souza by Sail. Bafna, who was held in a cheating case a few years ago and released on bail in 2019, said that on October 3, when the alleged money was paid and collected by Sam Dsouza, he was in Palghar. He urged cops to check for CCTV images in Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugsoncruise-case-palghar-trader-files-defamation-case-against-prabhakar-sail-101635514493192.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Army chief appeals to NDA to accept women cadets with sense of fair play, professionalism||PUNE Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Friday said it is expected that the women cadets are welcomed with the same sense of fair play and professionalism, and further stressed that their induction will be the “first step towards gender equality” in the armed forces.The army chief made the remarks after reviewing the passing out parade of the 141st course of the National Defence Academy (NDA).General Naravane said that the women officers will be in the same position forty years later in their life at the current position he stands before the audience. “As we open the portals of the NDA for women cadets, we expect you to welcome them with the same sense of fair play and professionalism as Indian Armed forces are known globally,” he stated.Earlier in September, the Ministry of Defence had informed the Supreme Court that a notification allowing women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the NDA will be out by May next year. But observing that induction of women to the NDA cannot be postponed by one year, the apex court had allowed female candidates to take the exam in November this year and not wait till May 2022 as requested by the government.General Naravane during a media interaction said, “As women cadets are being inducted into NDA, he is confident that they will perform better than their male counterparts.”“Over the years, as we have grown and matured, as the curriculum has changed, training methodology has changed, the course content has improved. We have become more well-trained and better-equipped to meet whatever challenges that emerge. As we go ahead, we will be inducting women cadets in the academy, I am sure they will perform better than their male counterparts,” he reiterated.Referring to their induction into the Army as the first step towards gender equality, the army chief said the army has always been at the forefront of all initiatives that have been taken in the country. “As a result of this, they will also get empowered. They will hold more challenging assignments. It’s not that we don’t have women officers. We already have women officers undergoing training at OTA (Officers Training Academy) in Chennai. They are exceedingly doing well and I am sure that the Academy will continue to prosper and flourish and bring fame and glory,” he said.During his direct address to the cadets, the army chief said, “Little over 42 years back when I stood at the same drill square today as you stand today, little could I have imagined that one day I would be reviewing this magnificent parade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-chief-appeals-to-nda-to-accept-women-cadets-with-sense-of-fair-play-professionalism-101635513833222.html
29-10-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: 1 Lok Sabha, 3 Assembly seats up for grabs in bipolar contest||Voting on three assembly seats and a Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh by-polls will take place on October 30 and results will be declared on November 2.From holding 2-3 public rallies to spending the night in the house of tribal and Dalit, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is leaving no stone unturned to woo voters.Amid speculations of change in the leadership like other BJP ruled states, CM Chouhan has made several announcements to address the local issues. By suspending officers from the stage for the delay in providing beneficial schemes, he is projecting an image of a hard taskmaster.BJP is considering this election important as it is the first election after the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when a large number of people died allegedly due to shortages of oxygen and hospital beds.Meanwhile, MP Congress is fighting this election with issues including deaths during Covid 19 second wave, poor roads, power cuts, atrocities with tribal and scheduled caste people and unemployment.Also Read | Rajasthan bypolls: Close fight and triangular contest in Vallabhnagar, DhariawadMP Congress Committee state president Kamal Nath said, “BJP-led state government failed to provide basic infrastructure and now the CM is staging the drama of being tough to put the blame of their failed policies on voters. This election will clear that voters are wise enough and are not going to rely on drama.”BJP state president VD Sharma said, “Congress is losing its existence and leaders are leaving the party. Even, voters are not coming to attend the public rally of Congress leaders. Congress candidates are losing this election due to internal dispute.”KhandwaKhandwa Lok Sabha seat fell vacant after the death of BJP senior leader and six times Member of Parliament Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan. Chauhan contested seven elections and lost only once in 2009 against Congress leader Arun Yadav.In this election, Chauhan’s son Harshwardhan was the probable candidate of BJP but the party gave a ticket to Gyaneshwar Patil, an OBC leader. From Congress, Arun Yadav has shown a willingness to contest election from Khandwa seat but two days before the declaration of the name of the candidate, he posted on social media that he doesn’t want to contest this election. Congress gave a ticket to Rajnarayan Singh, a close aide of Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh.During the election campaign, Congress MLA Sachin Birla switched his side and joined BJP as he claimed that he was feeling suffocated there. Birla’s left the party in a lurch.JobatThe Jobat seat in the Alirajpur district fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Kalawati Bhuria. A reserved seat for tribal candidates is being considered significant in order to know the mood of tribal voters. BJP has given a chance to turncoat Sulochana Rawat, a former two time Congress MLA, after she joined BJP last month against the Congress candidate Mahesh Patel.RaigaonThe Raigaon seat in Satna district became vacant following the death of five times BJP MLA Jugal Kishor Bagri. This is a scheduled caste reserved seat. Here too, BJP denied a ticket to Jugal Kishore Bagri’s son and gave a ticket to a woman candidate Pratima Bagri. Congress gave a ticket to Congress leader Kalpana Verma. In Raigaon, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has a good base. In 2013, BSP candidate Usha Chaudhary defeated Bagri in a close fight. BSP is not contesting the by-poll and its local leaders are extending support to the Congress candidate.PrithvipurPrithvipur in Niwari district fell vacant following the death of Congress legislator and former minister Brijendra Singh Rathore. Congress gave ticket to Rathore’s son Nitendra Rathore while BJP gave ticket to a defector Shishupal Yadav, a former leader of the Samajwadi Party.In the 2018 election, Yadav received 30% votes while Rathore received 35% votes. After losing the election, Yadav had joined BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-1-lok-sabha-3-assembly-seats-up-for-grabs-in-bipolar-contest-101635512230757.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Remove Covid related pay cuts: Air India pilots to aviation minister||Air India Boeing and Airbus pilots’ unions (Indian Pilots’ Guild and Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association) have collectively written to the aviation minister- Jyotiraditya Scindia asking him to remove the Covid-19 pay cut that is still being levied on them. The two airline pilots’ unions, earlier had written individually but did not receive any response from their respective managements. With this joint letter to the minister, sources said that the pilots want the ministry to restore their salaries to pre-privatisation days.The aviation industry in India seems to be back on track with domestic air traffic increasing from 25% in April 2020 to 100% as of October 202. With the opening up of international borders for India, there seems to be an increase in international travel too.‘This ground reality has duly been acknowledged by other airlines, who have rightfully rolled back the Covid austerity pay cuts significantly for their pilots. In stark contrast, our management is still content hiding behind the pandemic. The massive pay cut of up to 60% for Air India pilots has dramatically diminished our livelihoods. Looking at the current aviation industry standards, the continuation of the pay cut does not merit any justification,’ read the letter dated October 28.The airline pilots said that they have been patient and have shown restraint to ensure smooth flight operations. They also reiterated that they have gone beyond the call of duty during the pandemic, risking life and limb to ensure the success of the government’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM).“We request that you respect our sacrifices and years of faithful service to the National Carrier before handing us over. We would like to think that if not a graceful send-off, we have at least earned the right to a better legacy than our management stealing our hard-earned money with impunity,” the letter read.Before this, the pilots Boeing union- Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) had on October 1 and 7 had written letters to the airline management, but did not get a response.Hence, demanding rolling back of the pay cut the pilots said, “We have given the management every benefit of the doubt and ample time to redress the disproportionate pay cut for the pilots. They refuse to part from a practised indifference and have only weak excuses to offer. Every day this draconian pay cut continues is a humiliation to our efforts towards the ongoing VBM and the dignity of our profession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/remove-covid-related-pay-cuts-air-india-pilots-to-aviation-minister-101635512933158.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA allows Chhath Puja at designated sites; bars celebrations at Yamuna||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Friday barred Chhath Puja celebrations on the banks of the Yamuna river and allowed celebrations at designated sites only.“The celebration of Chhath Pooja during the month of November shall be allowed only at designated sites outside containment zones with requisite permission from the district magistrate. No site shall be designated on the bank of river Yamuna,” the order shared by the DDMA said.The DDMA earlier on Tuesday allowed Chhath Puja celebrations in the Capital. During Chhath, devotees offer 'Arghya' by fasting to the Sun-god in knee-deep water. The festival is celebrated all over India mainly by people belonging to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.It also said that designated sites shall be identified and managed by the respective district magistrate in coordination with departments and agencies concernedThe approval from the DDMA comes after a meeting among its top officials on Friday. The DDMA, which devises Covid management policies for the Capital, earlier banned Chhath Puja celebrations.The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) protested against the DDMA decision. BJP MP from northeast Delhi Manoj Tiwari also took out a Rath Yatra against the ban which was imposed earlier and claimed that the announcement was made following the protests taken out by the BJP. Tiwari also thanked BJP workers and Chhath Puja Samitis for their agitation.“The sustained protests by the party for allowing Chhatt festivities in the capital has finally fructified. It is a clear defeat of CM Arvind Kejriwal's anti-Hindu policies,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also said.Tiwari also accused Kejriwal of playing politics with religious sentiments. “There is no doubt in this that Kejriwal has decided to get Chhath celebration done under the pressure of elections. He is stubborn, he hurt the sentiments of the devotees and would have been continuing but he agreed because of the upcoming elections in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh,” Tiwari was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-allows-chhath-puja-at-designated-sites-bars-celebrations-at-yamuna-101635512066830.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body call centre starts calling citizens due for second vaccination dose||In order to make sure that all the beneficiaries who took the first dose of vaccination have taken their second dose, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has assigned its call centre to call the pending beneficiaries.NMMC has a pendency list of around 85,897 beneficiaries whom the call centre employees have started making calls to from Wednesday. Till Thursday, 5,000 people have been called and it has been found that around 62% of the people who were called had taken their second dose under a different mobile number and hence the system showed that their second dose was pending, claimed NMMC officials.Even as more than 100% of the targeted beneficiaries have got their first dose vaccination in Navi Mumbai, around 46% of the people who have taken their first dose, are yet to take their second dose.The 85,897 pending beneficiaries are due for the second dose from 85 to 147 days of which three are due for the second dose beyond 147 days. Those who have taken Covishield have to take their second dose between 84 and 112 days after taking their first.“If there are people who have missed their second dose beyond 112 days, even then the second dose can be given. Initially it was not possible to do that as the system did not accept the input of the second dose if the days expired. But now, it can be done,” the officer added.People who have taken Covaxin need to take the second dose after 28 days.“From the data collected in ‘my family my responsibility’, the calls are also being made to the 60 years and above beneficiaries to check if all of them are vaccinated since door-to-door visits have a limitation. The data collected for the pendency list is via the CoWIN portal. The call centre also informs the beneficiaries from the pendency list to get their second dose as soon as possible as there are no long queues now. We are trying to get everyone under the geographical limits of NMMC to get both the doses,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said. The state had given NMMC the target of 11.07 lakh target of vaccination while NMMC has, till now, vaccinated 11.21 lakh people with the first dose and 6.06 lakh with the second dose.Nearly 4L missed 2nd dose in Mumbai In Mumbai, nearly four lakh people have missed the second dose, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Early this week, the civic health authorities have created a database of people who have missed the due date for the second dose and have passed it on to the 24 war rooms in the city.“The war rooms have been assigned to call every person who has missed the date for the second shot,” said BMC’s immunisation officer, Dr Sheela Jagtap.“In the earlier phase of the vaccination drive, a lot of people from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region like Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar among others came to Mumbai to get the shots. It could be that these people have taken the second shot in their areas and the data has not been updated. We have asked the war rooms to simultaneously update the data as well,” she said.Civic officials said that some people may have developed side effects, which may have deterred them from taking the second dose while there could be a section of people who may have missed out due to travel schedules etc.“Our war room staff will also counsel them if needed and ask them to take the second dose without wasting more time,” said Jagtap.(Inputs from Jyoti Shelar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-call-centre-starts-calling-citizens-due-for-second-vaccination-dose-101635512518186.html
29-10-2021||Pune||PCMC: Use of toxic glyphosate to weed out water hyacinth irks environmentalists||An action plan from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to help clear water hyacinth using toxic material has triggered a group of environmentalists into writing to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) about water pollution due to spraying of glyphosate and to ban the substance from further damaging the rivers.A chain letter addressed to the chairman of CPCB highlights the use of a toxic substance, a weedicide called glyphosate that has been linked to probable carcinogenicity, endocrine disruption, kidney and liver damage, reproductive health problems and neurological effects, is been sanctioned for use in the PCMC rivers to control water hyacinth thus creating a threat for humans as well as rivers.“PCMC is planning to use glyphosate to get rid of hyacinth, which is hazardous for health and it also poses a greater threat to the aquatic life and our river ecosystem. The continuous use of glyphosate also means groundwater quality will be at risk and the damage could be irreversible,” said Hema Chari, an environmentalist and resident who came across the information on social media.She added that the actual reason for the proliferation of water hyacinth is the unregulated discharge of raw sewage into the rivers, which is neglected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-use-of-toxic-glyphosate-to-weed-out-water-hyacinth-irks-environmentalists-101635511613552.html
29-10-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC imposes blanket ban on firecrackers during Kali Puja in West Bengal||The Calcutta High Court on Friday imposed a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali puja and other festivals including Chhath puja, Christmas and New Year eve, officials said. “The court, after hearing a PIL, has put a blanket ban on all kinds of crackers and fireworks whether it is soundless or produces sound. Only diyas and candles may be used,” said Rachit Lakhmani, the counsel of the petitioner. On Tuesday, the West Bengal government allowed the bursting of green crackers for two hours during Kali puja and Chhath puja, and for around 35 minutes on Christmas and New Year eve, following which a PIL was filed in the high court seeking a complete ban on firecrackers. The petitioner, social worker Roshni Ali, pleaded that the bursting of firecrackers will increase air pollution and lead to breathing problems for Covid-positive patients. Recently, a section of Kolkata’s leading doctors, environment experts medical associations collectively submitted a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting a blanket ban on firecrackers. Diwali will be celebrated across the country on November 4 this year. “Much damage has been caused by the rampant violations of Covid-19 safety protocols during the Durga puja. Cases have started rising once again in the city and across the state. We should at least show some restraint during Kali puja by not bursting crackers and fireworks this time. The smoke and pollution would cause more harm to patients who are suffering from Covid-19 or are recovering from the disease,” said Manas Gupta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors in West Bengal. This comes at a time when the centre has warned the state of rising Covid-19 cases in Kolkata after Durga puja. In 2020, the Calcutta high court banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government too had appealed to the people to avoid bursting firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali to check air pollution. The Durga puja, the biggest festival in the state, ended on October 15 and the daily count of Covid-19 cases is again hovering around the 1000-mark after a gap of more than three months. While 976 new cases were detected in the state on Wednesday, on Thursday the number shot up further to 990. With cases shooting up, the state government has reimposed micro-containment zones in various districts including Howrah, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and Jalpaiguri among others. Police have started intensifying action against citizens for violating Covid-19 safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-imposes-blanket-ban-on-firecrackers-during-kali-puja-in-west-bengal-101635511555530.html
29-10-2021||Dehradun||Over 70 people died due to rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand: Govt data||As many as 79 people lost their lives between October 17 and 19 after incessant rain hit Uttarakhand, according to data released by the state government. A total of 24 people were injured and three remain missing from the rain-triggered house collapses, floods and landslides, the data revealed.A total of 232 houses were either partially or completely destroyed between October 17 and 19. Nine districts in the northern hill state were affected, with Nainital being the most hit region. Champawat, Uttarkashi, US Nagar, Bageshwar, Almora, Chamoli, Pauri, and Pithoragarh are the remaining eight districts. Besides Nainital, Champawat accounted for 11 deaths, Uttarkashi at 10, and Almora and Bageshwar at six each.Of the 232 destroyed houses, 101 were reported from US Nagar and 74 from Nainital, the government data showed.
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid byelections, Himachal stares at third Covid wave as cases on rise||Amid the bustle of the byelections in Mandi parliamentary constituency and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments, Himachal Pradesh is seeing a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Ever since the byelections were declared a month ago, the focus of the state government and political parties has been on the elections. Till October 28, a total of 4,558 Covid-19 cases were reported from across the state, taking the total case count to 2,23,619, while the positivity rate again climbed to 2.3%. Also read: Jai Ram confident of sweeping victory in Himachal bypollsAs many as 69 Covid fatalities were recorded during this period with the case fatality ratio at 1.6%. Though there is no evidence to suggest that the election rallies caused the latest spurt, but coronavirus is spreading rapidly again, particularly in Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una districts. Virus spreads among school students What has become a cause of concern for the state health authorities is the spread of coronavirus among children. More than 750 students of government and private schools have tested positive since the schools reopened in the state. This is the number of only those children whose samples were collected at the schools. The number would be higher if the number of those who were detected positive at home is included. According to the state education department data, among the infected students, 386 are from government schools alone. Half of the students have recovered. The highest number of 319 students has tested positive in Kangra followed by 208 in Hamirpur and 131 in Una. Sirmaur is the only district where no student has been found positive. A 13-year-old girl student died of the infection in Kangra on October 21. She reportedly caught the infection after attending a wedding. The district health authorities said the girl was not attending school since October 12. Her family sought medical help only after her condition deteriorated. The state health authorities have sent samples of 70 students to National Centre of Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, for testing to identify the variant. Decision on schools at November 8 meeting Education secretary Rajeev Sharma said the government is closely monitoring the situation. “The government has already announced week-long Diwali vacations from November 1 in educational institutions to prevent further spread. About 4,000 teachers are on poll duty in the state. Their tests will be conducted after they are back,” Sharma said. Any decision on schools will be taken in a meeting slated for November 8. Chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh held a virtual meeting with all deputy commissioners on Thursday to review the Covid situation, particularly in schools. Most DCs favoured closing down schools again to check the transmission. A recent sero survey found 61% children aged between 10 and 17 years had antibodies against coronavirus. 36% of state’s positive cases in Kangra Kangra, the most populous district of the state, has seen the maximum number of cases. Till Thursday, 1,642 cases were reported in Kangra, which is 36% of the total cases reported in the state. 19% of the new cases in the district are school students. In September, the district reported 1,341 cases. Hamirpur district has seen 949 new infections this month, while Mandi recorded 622, Una 452 and Bilaspur 364. Sirmaur recorded only two cases in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-byelections-himachal-stares-at-third-covid-wave-as-cases-on-rise-101635509932719.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Two former Congress lawmakers join Samajwadi Party||Former Congress lawmakers from western Uttar Pradesh Harendra Malik and Pankaj Malik joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Friday. They resigned from the Congress party earlier this month.The induction is expected to now boost the SP’s chances in western Uttar Pradesh after it got into an alliance with Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) in the eastern part of the state. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav attended a rally of the SBSP in Mau along with SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar.Harendra Malik and Pankaj Malik joined the SP at the party headquarters in Lucknow in presence of Yadav.Former lawmakers Salim Shervani and Anu Tandon have been among other former Congress lawmakers who have joined the SP in the run to the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. The elections are due early next year for 403 seats.The defections have come even as Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been very active in Uttar Pradesh to revive the party, which has been out of power in the state for over three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-two-former-congress-lawmakers-join-samajwadi-party-101635509092743.html
29-10-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal schools to reopen from November 16 with staggered timing||Schools in West Bengal would reopen from November 16 with staggered timings for classes IX to XII, officials of the state education department said. “According to an order issued by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, while students of classes IX and XI would have to report at 9:30 am and their classes would be held from 10 am to 3:30 pm, students of classes X and XII would have to report at 10:30 am and their classes would be held between 11 am and 4:30 pm,” said an official. The order also stated that hostels may also begin operation while strictly maintaining safety and Covid-19 protocols. As local trains are not running, school heads have been directed to issue suitable passes so that students and teachers and staff may avail of special trains. In West Bengal, schools were shut down in March 2020 due to the pandemic. They reopened in mid-February with classes IX to XII but had to be shut again due to the assembly elections and the second wave of Covid-19 that hit thereafter. The order came four days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed officials to prepare for the reopening of schools and colleges from November 16. Banerjee earlier said they will reopen after the Durga Puja vacation but did not announce a date. “In another order, it has been stated that schools were shut for several months and steps must be taken for cleaning them and making them functional by October 31 on priority. All teaching and non-teaching staff have been allowed to attend the campus from November 1,” said the official. The West Bengal education department is also likely to announce the schedule for the class X and XII board exams for 2022 on Monday. Earlier this year, the board exams for 2021 were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-schools-to-reopen-from-november-16-with-staggered-timing-101635508615389.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka meets deceasedfarmers’ kin, seeks probe into fertiliser shortage||LUCKNOW Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday met families of four deceased farmers, who had allegedly faced shortage of fertilisers in Lalitpur (Bundelkhand), and alleged that the fertiliser distribution system of Uttar Pradesh had failed due to collusion among black marketers, officials and leaders. She also demanded a probe into why fertilisers were not reaching farmers. “Whatever the officers have done here is wrong. If there is any nexus of officers and leaders with those indulging in black marketing of fertilisers, it should be probed. Why are people not getting fertilisers here,” asked Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while speaking to media persons after meeting families of four farmers, who died recently amid reports of fertiliser shortage. Referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of October 3, Gandhi said farmers were struggling from Lakhimpur to Bundelkhand region of the state.The Congress leader accused the BJP government of neglecting farmers. “They have neglected farmers. This is not about these four families. It is happening in the entire Bundelkhand region. The UP government’s cruel face has come to the fore. Farmers were crushed by the son of a union minister who continues to be in office,” she said. “You all know farmers are facing problems and no one is listening to them… we come here and meet them. They are living in these conditions, have loans to pay and are not getting any fertilisers. They also have to pay power bills without getting electricity,” said Priyanka. She listed promises the Congress has made to people ahead of 2022 UP assembly polls, including farm loan waiver, MSP of ₹2,500 per quintal for wheat and paddy and state advised price (SAP) of ₹400 per quintal to sugarcane growers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-meets-deceasedfarmers-kin-seeks-probeinto-fertiliser-shortage-101635508496180.html
29-10-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: Local trains allowed with 50% capacity in West Bengal, night curfew relaxed for major festivals||Amid concerns of increasing daily Covid-19 cases in West Bengal following the festival season, the state government on Friday announced additional relaxations and also extended the existing norms until November 30. The night curfew in the state was relaxed for a period of ten days between October 10 and 20 in view of the Durga Puja celebrations in the state.The night curfew between 11pm and 5am would continue to remain in force but it would also be relaxed between November 2 and 5 for Kali Puja and Diwali and on November 10, 11 for Chhat Puja, the government said.Among major relaxations announced, the intra-state local train movement has been allowed with half of the seating capacity. Further, schools for classes 9 to 12 and universities would be allowed to resume physical classes from November 16 following the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the education department, the government order said.Also read | Covid-19: Centre says Kolkata primary district of concern in West BengalMeanwhile, all government offices related to “non-emergency and non-essential” services would now be allowed to operate with half their total strength. However, government offices related to emergency and essential services have been allowed to remain operational at full strength as was the norm earlier.“Cinema Halls, theatre halls, sadans, manchas, auditoriums, stadiums, shopping malls, market complexes, restaurants, spa and gym will be allowed to operate with 70% of capacity at a time as per normal operational hours but not beyond 11 pm,” the state government said in its order.The restaurants and bars have also been allowed to operate at 70% capacity at a given time until 11pm in the night. The attendance at indoor gatherings, including marriages and other activities such as shooting for films and TV programmes and audio recording activities, has been capped at 70% the venue’s capacity. Also such events must happen in adherence with Covid-19 protocols, the government further stressed.Close to 1,000 new Covid-19 infections (990 to be exact) were reported on Thursday in the state and 1,590, 032 total confirmed cases have been logged, a state health bulletin showed. The death toll climbed 19,105 with nine more fatalities on the day and the active caseload stood at 8,109. Also, 74,557,337 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries as of October 28, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-local-trains-allowed-with-50-capacity-in-west-bengal-night-curfew-relaxed-for-major-festivals-101635507660116.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||High court rejects Anil Deshmukh’s plea to cancel ED summons, bar his arrest||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday rejected former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s petition to cancel summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and bar the agency from arresting him in its money laundering case.The bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal, which turned down Deshmukh’s request to invoke its special powers to prohibit the federal financial crimes agency from any coercive action against him, however, underlined that the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was free to apply to a competent court for anticipatory bail under section 438 of the criminal procedure code if he apprehended arrest.Deshmukh is being investigated for money laundering in a case related to the April 21 First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the basis of the allegations of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The former Mumbai top cop, who has been gone missing, earlier alleged that Deshmukh instructed certain Mumbai police officers, including the dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month from various establishments such as bars, dance bars and hookah parlours in Mumbai. ED registered its first case in this regard on May 11.To be sure, ED has been issuing summons to Deshmukh since June 25, but he has not appeared before the agency so far.In another case, ED lawyers on October 1 told a Mumbai court that the former minister was summoned five times between June 25 and August 16, but he was a no show. In his petition filed in the high court, Deshmukh’s lawyer Aniket Nikam asked the high court to allow him before investigators via a videoconferencing link and let him produce documents sought by the agency through his representative.Nikam argued that ED created the apprehension that Deshmukh may be arrested as they neither provided him with the list of documents sought from him nor a copy of the case registered against him, and this showed that ED officials were prejudicial to his interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-rejects-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-to-cancel-ed-summons-bar-his-arrest-101635507533129.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Incidents of brain stroke increasing among youngsters: doctors||On the occasion of World Stroke Day observed every year on October 29, doctors and medical experts warned that incidents of brain stroke among youngsters are on the rise due to addiction and a sedentary lifestyle. They said that time is of the essence in treating brain stroke patients and that greater awareness is needed among patients.Dr Nasli Icchaporia, director – Neurology, Sahyadri Super Speciality hospital, said that time is crucial while treating brain stroke patients and that we need more stroke-ready hospitals. “We can minimise the disability by early recognition and treatment. Interventional techniques - like administering clot bursting injections within four-and-a-half hours and if required, Mechanical Thrombectomy namely Stent Retrievers with which large vessels can be opened up and which has to be carried out within six hours of the onset of stroke - have significantly improved the outcomes if the patient is brought to the hospital on time,” he said. He said that a new acronym B.E.F.A.S.T. which stands for balance, eyes, face, arm, speech and time will be helpful in encouraging people to recognise the warning signs of stroke and get help as soon as possible.“It is not only important for a patient to be brought to the hospital fast, but it is also important for the emergency department to have a streamlined process to deal with strokes. The emergency department should be designed to do streamlined choreography with their own stroke codes. The entire staff should be educated about the signs and symptoms of stroke, blood sugar should be checked in the ambulance on the way, and the emergency department should be sounded off so that they can keep the entire infrastructure ready. Telemedicine too can prove beneficial,” said Dr Icchaporia.Dr Dhanshree Peddawad, consultant neurologist at Jupiter hospital, Pune, said that incidents of brain stroke among youngsters are increasing as the pressure among them is increasing. She said that many young patients who are in their late 30s and early 40s are suffering brain strokes.“The reason is increase in stress, a sedentary lifestyle and addiction to smoking. These are some of the primary causes that can lead to a brain stroke. Simple changes in lifestyle like regular exercise, healthy diet, and giving up smoking can help eliminate or reduce the risk factors. Also more awareness is needed among the general public to be able to recognise early signs of a stroke and consult a doctor,” Dr Peddawad said.Brain stroke is a medical emergency which occurs when blood supply to the brain is blocked either by a clot or a burst. This can have a damaging and disabling effect on the body depending on the extent and location of the damage as different areas of the brain are responsible for controlling different functions. The ruptured blood vessels can even cause severe damage like brain haemorrhage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/incidents-of-brain-stroke-increasing-among-youngsters-doctors-101635506572649.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli civic body asks hotels to manage own waste||As a part of their zero-waste campaign, the Kalyan–Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has now asked the hotels in the city to manage their own waste. The solid waste management department of KDMC and the hotel association representatives have come up with an idea of installing portable biogas plants in hotels in the coming days.“We had called a meeting with the representatives of the hotel association in the city and have discussed the measures on how to ensure the waste generated in hotels is managed within the hotels. One effective measure that we have agreed upon is installing portable biogas plants at the hotels,” said Ramdas Kokre, deputy commissioner, KDMC.The portable plants at the hotels will treat the waste generated in the hotels daily and reduce the amount of waste collected by the civic body from these hotels.The civic body will organise a workshop to educate the hotel owners in the city on how the biogas plants could work and how it would benefit the city. KDMC also urged the hoteliers to not use plastic bags and to shift to other bags that are eco-friendly.As per the civic body, around 35 tons of wastes are generated from hotels in the city. If the hotels take up the measure of biogas plants and manage their waste daily, the civic body also plans to give them an exemption of 5% on the property tax.“We will give a 5% exemption on property tax to those hotels that install the biogas plants and manage their waste regularly,” added Kokre.Praveen Shetty, president of Kalyan hotel association, said, “We have agreed to install the biogas plants as it will be a major contribution from us to manage the waste. Also, the civic body is giving us an exemption of 5% on property tax that is very motivating. The civic body is not forcing anybody to install the plant, which is a good approach. There are around 150 hotels in Kalyan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-asks-hotels-to-manage-own-waste-101635506272740.html
29-10-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: October 29-November 4||High big gigs featuring Nate08Nate08, with a talent of playing with tempo and rhythm, is the solo project of bass player, musician and producer Nathan Thomas; and an exploration of his love for electronic music.When: Friday, October 29; 8:30pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkI ConnectConnect with digital creators and influencers in an offline session! Join the starry evening and get to know about ‘Behind the Scene’ stories of building a personal brand in a short span of time. Influencers will share their digital journey.For details call 8962429492When: October 29, 5pm-6:30pm Where: Universal BBQ, HinjewadiThe Happyness Factory Founded by Yogesh Karikurve (aka Indieyogi), to promote the culture of finding happiness and connections through dance, arts and yoga, since its inception in 2019, THF has done several workshops domestically: It engages in creative workshops, building a community of like-minded people and connecting with nature.For more information call 9820810034When: October 30; 3pm to 6pmWhere: The Elephant and Co, KalyaninagarSongs of NatureExperience a unique journey of art and passion. Witness five global languages blending with dance along with Kathak artistes coming together to reveal the intricate relation of Melodies, Emotions & Mother Nature, through different poems!Concept: Aishwarya Charudatta Sane & Sharvari Ajit Bhide, founders of The Cultural Mosaic; performances by Aishwarya Sane, Sharvari Bhide, Moushami Jaju, Darshana Muley, Shivani Karmarkar & Krupa Tendulkar.For information go to https://www.ticketkhidakee.com/songsofnatureWhen: Saturday, October 30; 9am,Where: OnlineHalloween thriller with DJ SukhiWe know Halloween brings in all the excitement thrill and a bit of spookiness and so we plan to let our skeletons out too and party with you till our bones drop!! Call on 8956033282/8956033283 for information & reservations!When: October 30; 7pm onwardsWhere: Hangout 001, City Point Towers, 250/C Boat Club road, Bund Garden Swarparva:an evening of Indian classical musicCity-based Taalanubhuti Foundation in association with Parimal and Pramod Chaudhari Foundation is organising a musical programme titled “Swarparva”. The programme will begin with Ganesh Vandana by Bharatnatyam dancer Shruti Velankar Modgi. Subsequently, Ankita Joshi, a disciple of Pandit Jasraj will perform. Abhishik Shinkar will accompany her on harmonium and Ramkrishna Karmbelkar on tabla. Acclaimed Sarod artist Abhishek Borakar, disciple of Pandit Shekhar Borkar the performa. Charudatta Phadke will accompany him on tabla. The programme will end with a performance by Sawani Shende, a veteran vocalist from the Gwalior Gharana. Rohit Mujumdar, a disciple Pt Suresh Talwalkar will accompany her on table and Abhinay Ravande on harmonium. When: Sunday, October 31; 4.30 pmDa High Cookout featuring Kreon and KayotiA cookout this Sunday with Kreon & Kayoti. Kayoti is an independent music producer who resides at Pune. Kayoti’s style of music expands and ranges from experimental, hip hop, to house grooves. Kreon is a producer/sound engineer based in New Delhi. EP “Corners” his first release had features from collaborators like Chezin, Sahirah Oshidar, and Tima Dee.When: October 31; 1:30pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkNight of Spooks at One8 Commune Head over to the One8 Commune, Pune’s newest spot, for a night with ghouls and ghosts, with the Progressive Brothers on deck duties and trendy “Squid Game”-inspired décor.When: October 31, Sunday; 8 pm onwardsWhere: One8 Commune, Raja Bahadur MillsGet your spook on Enjoy carnival style stalls and fun, interactive games. :et your creativity side shine as you create art that screams Halloween!When: October 31; 11am to 2pm and 4pm to 6pmWhere: Swakaya, Boat Club roadDiwali shopping festivalThis expo brings you the shopping experience for Diwali, powered by the All India Women Entrepreneurs Association, the Fashionista Factory Events and the Pune Entrepreneurs Association. For details call 9545164400 - When: October 29-31; 11am–9pmWhere: Next to Kedari petrol pump, WanowrieDesign library The magic of fashion is that it allows you to change your persona and exude chic. Design Library brings you trending fashion labels from across India; jewellery, footwear, accessories. All Covid protocols followed.When: Sunday, October 31 10am Where: Conrad Pune, 7 Mangaldas roadHowl-O-Ween: dog partyHyatt Pune, Kalyani nagar invites you for an evening of trick-&-treat with your costume-clad canine this Halloween. Spend a paw-some time with your furry babies and partake in fun activities, games, training sessions and a very special Howl-O-Ween fashion parade. Event in association with: Barks and Bubbles and Le Marche Digital.Stand a chance to win pet staycations at #HyattPune.To pre-register for the event call 9765551655/ 9209809588When: October 31; 3:30pm - 6:30pmVenue: Fishbowl Terrace at the Hyatt Pune, Kalyani nagarHalloween weekendGet ready for a spooky crazy Halloween. All gigs are limited capacity events. Make sure you have prior reservations.When: Friday, October 29; Sixth Ocean and Ardo When: Saturday, October 30; MadStarBase and Karonik When: Sunday, October 31; Spindoctor, Yung Maddy and DJ Chandan; 4pm onwardsWhere: Penthouse, Oynx Mall||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-october-29-november-4-101635505432699.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Everyday happenings as the spark for great inspiration||Friends and family often ask where I get the inspiration for books, columns and blogs. At other times, they ask who inspired me to become a writer; which writers I look up to and so on. I have never given it much thought, but when one of my kids asked, I figured it’s important.For most of my life, I have just written. I write every day. Sometimes one line, sometimes one page, sometimes 20, but I write every day. And I write as it strikes me, as it happens (used to be on scraps of paper, notebooks, tissue paper, now it’s on the phone); not at a desk long after the event has happened, long after the thoughts and feelings have come and gone. I don’t recreate or craft stories. I experience and transcribe in the moment. I started writing because I had lots of questions about everything. As I wrote questions, I wondered about answers, and as I wondered, I made choices and as I made choices, I reflected whether they were right or wrong, and corrected my behaviour. To clear all doubts: I don’t rush to call family and friends when something exciting or disheartening or boring happens; I write. What do I write about? Anything and everything. Going to the market with my father, for instance. I learned the importance of selecting the meat and vegetables with one’s own hand (not what the vendor gave you), bargaining hard, walking away from the deal, closing the deal so that’s it’s fair to both sides, and doing all this through pleasant, amiable dialogue. “Kaise diya tamatar? (What’s the price of tomatoes)?”“Bauji, dus rupiya kilo (Sir, ten rupees a kilo)?.”“Tamatar bech rahe ho, ya sona? Aath mein do to batao. (You are selling tomatoes or gold? Let me know if you’ll sell for 8 a kilo)?”“Aap teen kilo le lo to saath mein de dei. (If you buy three kilos, I will give it to you at seven a kilo).”“Beta sabji mein daalna hai, tamatar ka sauce nahin bechna. Theeek bhav bolo. (I need tomatoes to add a bit to the vegetable dish not to make and sell tomato sauce. Give me a good price).”The most important lesson was always the banter - that’s how my father connected with people, speaking in their particular dialect, enjoying the jest, taking interest in where they came from, how many people in their family, what their dreams were. He used to say, “Money is very important, but the world is about people. Kindness is not about giving money, it is about treating people as humans, as your equal.” He had learnt that lesson the hard way - he and his siblings had gone from growing up with means, to growing up in poverty, and then clawing out of that poverty into some meagre means. Through the 1970s and 1980s, while learning about the nuances of such social interactions and everyday life, I was also blessed to have the opportunity to read the highly evolved and intellectual works of Tolstoy, Hegel, Hemingway, Tagore, Vivekanand and Thomas Hardy. I also read Dinkar, Munshi Premchand and heard Kabir dohas every day. I recited shlokas and sang bhajans every evening, and listened to sermons every week and participated in deep debate at every opportunity … and wrote. I also read Lee Falk (Phantom, Mandrake), Abid Surati’s Bahadur, Champak, Chandamama, Tinkle, and Amar Chitra Katha, Reader Digest, Archie, Casper, Hot Stuff, Tintin, and Asterix and Obelix.In the early 1980s I started reading newspapers and discovered RK Laxman. And thanks to our school textbooks, Mario Miranda’s art had a great influence on my style of expression. In 1987 I discovered Larry Siegel, Sergio Aragones, Mort Drucker, Dock DeBartolo, Don Martin (among many others) through MAD magazine. In 1989, I discovered Bill Waterson’s work (Calvin and Hobbes) and the works of Louis L’Amour, Jeffrey Archer and Arthur Hailey. All of these artists and writers and many other philosophers, artistes, film-makers, musicians have helped shape my understanding that there need not be any limits on self-expression so long as I know social and legal boundaries and also how to push those boundaries without breaking them. But, it is Busybee and Dave Barry who influenced my style of column-writing to an extent. Busybee (Behram Contractor) was an Indian journalist and humourist who founded the Afternoon Despatch & Courier, a tabloid I used to buy from my pocket money every day simply to read the columns by Busybee on the long bus journey home from Madras Hotel to Sayyad Gaon in Delhi. Dave Barry is an American humourist and columnist who used to write for the Miami Herald and I found his column by chance in the early 1990s, through an online friend in Syracuse (later through the sitcom Dave’s World).I still have no preference of subject matter when it comes to reading - history, economics, political science, geography, technology, engineering, sports, art, wine labels, nutrition information on grocery ingredients, aircraft safety cards, EULAs, comics, religious books, text books, how-to’s, how-not-to’s … I read anything and everything.I guess it’s natural that I write on anything and everything, but the focus is always on the ordinary person’s experience. Like the cabin crew wearing spectacles on my first time flying Emirates. When I walked into the aircraft on that particular flight, there was this crew member wearing spectacles who was doing a little jig to the catchy music that was playing on the music system. And she was smiling as she worked because she was enjoying the music. As were some of the other crew. They were all pleasant and cordial and focused on what they were doing. Guess what I am saying is the crew was of real people in a relaxed environment, liking their work and it reflected on my travel experience. The average, ordinary person is therefore my inspiration. People who have little or no power, who keep getting up every day no matter what happened the day before, and taking one step and another through the day. People who are not born or bred for success. People who have to make choices between rent or mortgage payments and children’s education, between healthcare and that additional hour of remuneration, between their dreams and the immediate security of their families. The men and women who deal with high stress every day for decades, but have the gumption to sympathise with the troubles of others, or lend a hand whenever they can.That’s who inspires me.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-everyday-happenings-as-the-spark-for-great-inspiration-101635505075000.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai crime branch constable accused of rape not arrested yet 40 days on||It’s been 40 days since a 23-year-old woman registered a rape case against police constable Rupesh Kohli (attached with Navi Mumbai crime branch) at Khandeshwar police station. However, the police are unable to arrest the accused till date. In her statement, the survivor mentioned that she had met Kohli on social media a few months ago and they became friends. Kohli, 23, then established a physical relationship with her promising marriage and later when she conceived, he forcefully got her pregnancy terminated by giving her some medicines. After all these, he refused to marry her. The police booked the accused under Sections 376, 313, 323, and 417 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of Atrocity Act as applicable in this case. Navi Mumbai police commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh suspended Kohli two days after the case was registered.Bhagawat Sonawane, assistant commissioner of police (Panvel division), said, “As the accused is also a policeman, he knows the strategies we use to arrest the absconding accused. He went into hiding before the case was registered and has not taken any step that might give us clues about his whereabouts. Our teams are still searching for him at different places of the state.”Hemant Sharma, a social activist and convener of Sahayak Janheet Abhiyan, a non-governmental organisation, alleged, “We have observed that in such cases the police normally delay in arresting the accused and, meanwhile, try to influence the complainant’s decision. If the complainant agrees to settle the case outside the court, the police don’t arrest the accused at all. We hope the police are not purposely delaying arrest in this case too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-crime-branch-constable-accused-of-rape-not-arrested-yet-40-days-on-101635505073023.html
29-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan bypolls: Close fight and triangular contest in Vallabhnagar, Dhariawad||Rajasthan’s two assembly seats going for bypolls this Saturday – Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad have become political hotbeds, with parties putting in all their efforts to bring them in their kitty.The ministers and other leaders camping in for weeks, the CM addressing rallies twice, and the large presence of senior BJP leaders from Delhi and state has surprised the people of the constituencies with this attention.The bypolls have been necessitated due to the demise of BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena, and Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat.Both the assemblies are facing a close contest with regional parties and independent candidates giving a tough time to the ruling Congress and Opposition BJP.The Vallabhnagar assembly constituency is witnessing close contest among three candidates including that of Congress, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, and Independent (Chief of Janta Sena), while BJP appears to be lagging behind.The constituency has been a stronghold of Congress with the party winning nine of the 16 assembly elections held since 1952. The BJP candidate Randhir Singh Bhindar managed to win in 2003, and later as an independent in 2013.Playing the sympathy card, the Congress has fielded Preeti Shaktawat, wife of late Vallabhnagar MLA Gajendra Singh, whereas BJP has picked up a new face Himmat Singh Jhala. Denied ticket, former BJP MLA Bhindar is once again contesting as independent, while another Udailal Dangi of BJP is contesting on RLP ticket.Also Read | TMC, BJP gear up for close contest in four Bengal bypollsIn Dhariawad, independent candidate Thawarchand, a rebel of the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) would play a spoilsport for Nagraj Meena (INC) and Khet Singh (BJP).The constituency came into existence after delimitation in 2008 and has witnessed three assembly polls since then, where BJP won twice (2013 and 2018) and Congress in 2008.Confident of winning both bypolls, CM Ashok Gehlot has stated that BJP would come in fourth place in Vallabhnagar. “People of the BJP and the RSS are roaming from village to village and misleading people. Somebody should ask them why inflation is increasing in your rule (at the Centre). Do they have any answer? Petrol, diesel and LPG prices are increasing day by day,” he said, addressing byelection rallies on Tuesday.“Whatever promises were made seven years ago, even if (PM Narendra) Modi made them, these people do not mention them,” he said. He alleged that people have been suffering due to inflation since the BJP came to power at the Centre.On the other hand, the BJP is cornering the government on issues such as anti-people policies, law and order and power cuts.Addressing a byelection rally on Tuesday, BJP national general secretary and in charge for Rajasthan Arun Singh said voting for Congress means giving license to the inaction of the Gehlot government, increase in crimes and misgovernance.The chief minister did not leave the residence for 18 months during the so far tenure of 3 years, Singh continued. He said that development works came to a standstill in the Congress rule.BJP state president Satish Poonia said there is a lot of resentment among the people about the anti-people policies of the Congress government.He said that "there is a lot of resentment among the people about the anti-people policies of the Congress government, including increased power tariff, undeclared power cuts, incomplete farmer loan waiver, deteriorating law and order. And people of Vallabhnagar are also not untouched by it."Political analyst Manish Godha said Dhariawad is known to be a bastion of BJP but the selection of candidates has somehow created problems for the party. A sympathy card could have been a better option for BJP as Congress has done in Vallabhnagar.He said Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria has a good hold in the Mewar region and if BJP had put the responsibility on his shoulders then it would have been a better contest on both seats.The polling will take place on October 30 and counting of votes on November 2.In the House of 200, the ruling Congress at present has 106 MLAs, BJP - 71, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) - 3, CPI(M), and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) - 2 each, Rashtriya Lok Dal -1 and 13 are independent legislators. Two seats are vacant on which the bypolls are taking place.VallabhnagarTotal number of voters: 2,53,831Total candidates: 9Prominent candidates: Preeti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat (INC), Himmat Singh Jhala (BJP), Randhir Singh Bhindar (IND), Udailal Dangi (RLP)Who won last time: Gajendra Singh Shaktawat (INC)Nearest rival- Randhir Singh Bhindar (Janta Sena)Winning margin: 3719Why polls are being held: Demise of sitting Congress MLA Gajendra Singh ShaktawatDhariawad (ST)Total number of voters: 2,57,624Total candidates: 7Prominent candidates: Nagraj (INC), Khet Singh (BJP), Ganesh lal Meena (BTP), Tharwarchand (IND)Who won last time: Gautam Lal Meena (BJP)Nearest rival: Nagraj (INC)Winning margin: 23842Why polls are being held: Demise of sitting BJP MLA Gautam Lal Meena||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bypolls-close-fight-and-triangular-contest-in-vallabhnagar-dhariawad-101635503126040.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leadership of Bathinda patronising corruption: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday accused the Congress leadership of Bathinda of patronising corruption. During a closed-door interaction with representatives of the business community, Kejriwal said extortion and murders have shaken the faith of industrialists in Punjab. Also read: SAD constitution forgery: Punjab court summons ex-CM Parkash Singh BadalThe Delhi CM repeatedly referred to the name of an aide of a senior Punjab minister for allegedly running the goonda tax regime in Bathinda. “During a series of meetings with industrialists and traders since Thursday evening in Bathinda, the name of a person was taken prominently by all organised corruption. Industrialists are being harassed and framed in false cases,” he said. During his maiden political visit to Bathinda ahead of the state elections, Kejriwal tried to win over small and medium-scale industrialists and traders. Says AAP will ensure transparency, safety The AAP supremo urges electoral support to form the next government in Punjab that will ensure the business community a regime free from ‘raids and inspector raj’. “If voted to power, we will ensure prompt clearance of huge arrears of the obsolete VAT (value-added tax). We will ensure transparent governance and safety of businessmen,” he said. Kejriwal expressed concern over the deterioration of the traditional business of cotton ginning in the cotton-growing region of south Malwa. “The number of such cotton processing units has gone down from 400 to 40 in the past few years. But respective governments have ignored the role of this sector in the economy. The AAP is sensitive to the needs and aspirations of the business community from small and medium sectors and we work to promote them,” he said. Says Channi govt overlooking industries Taking potshots at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his Delhi counterpart said that the Congress government is making false claims on new investments by the corporate sector while overlooking the existing industries in need of support. “The industry is bracing with acute electricity shortage. It is a fact that industrialists are moving to other states as the Punjab government has failed to give them an incentive. Channi has been issuing press statements to bring a change in governance but has initiated any move to curb inspector raj that hurts the economic interests of traders and entrepreneurs,” he said. Kejriwal said his party favours empowering the aam aadmi (common man) as they are instrumental in the progress of any society. “Agriculture and industry are two integral sectors to boost the economy of Punjab. AAP commits to make them partners in development and curb corruption with stringent means,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leadership-of-bathinda-patronising-corruption-kejriwal-101635501472446.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||10 IPS, 62 PPS officers transferred in Punjab||The Punjab Government on Friday transferred 10 IPS and 62 PPS officers of superintendent of police (SP) rank. J Elenchezian has been posted as joint commissioner of police (CP), city and traffic, Ludhiana, while Deepak Pareek will now be the joint CP headquarters, Jalandhar. Also read: SAD constitution forgery: Punjab court summons ex-CM Parkash Singh BadalSachin Gupta has been posted as the joint CP, security and operations, Amritsar; Gaurav Toora as joint CP, headquarters, Amritsar; Dayama Harish Kumar Omparkash as joint CP, headquarters, Ludhiana; Sandeep Kumar Malik as joint CP, law and order, Jalandhar; and Sartaj Singh Chahal as additional IG, special branch intelligence, Mohali. Indian Police Service officers Navneet Kumar Bains will now be AIG, special protection unit of CM security, whereas Ashwani Goyal has now been posted as additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), headquarters, Ludhiana. Pragya Jain will now be ADCP, security and operations, Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-ips-62-pps-officers-transferred-in-punjab-101635499192562.html
29-10-2021||Indore||Sex racket busted in MP's Gwalior, 13 arrested||As many as 13 persons including three women were arrested on Thursday by the police for allegedly running a sex racket in Morar town in the Gwalior district of Madhya Pradesh.Murar police station in-charge Shailendra Bhargava said, "We got information that a sex racket was being run in the Morar area. Teams were formed after which 10 men and three women were arrested following raids. The landlady of the house is involved in the racket. The racket was being run for more than a year."Investigation into the matter is underway, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/sex-racket-busted-in-mp-s-gwalior-13-arrested-101635495810180.html
29-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Panchayat Election Result 2021: Counting of votes underway in Alwar, Dholpur||Counting of votes for the panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections in Dholpur and Alwar of Rajasthan, held earlier this month, are underway in the district headquarters on Friday. The counting of votes started at 9am and a clear picture regarding the winner is expected by evening.The voting in the final and the third phase of the polls took place on Tuesday and a turnout of over 65.23 per cent was recorded in the two districts. The Alwar and Dholpur zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections are being conducted in three phases. The first and second phases of polling were held on October 20 and October 23 respectively.As many as 506,350 voters out of a total of 776,284 voted in the elections, according to poll officials. The highest voting percentage was recorded at Kishangarh Bas of Alwar district at 69.98 per cent, according to the spokesperson of the State Election Commission.State election commissioner PS Mehra said that the voting percentage in the first phase was 64.24 per cent, while it was 57.46 per cent in the second phase.The voting was held keeping in mind the necessary guidelines in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The State Election Commission also informed that the zila pramukh and panchayat samiti pradhan will be held on October 30.Meanwhile, bypolls to two assembly seats in the Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad districts of the state will also be held on Saturday. The elections are being viewed as a major test for the performance of the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-panchayat-election-result-2021-counting-of-votes-underway-in-alwar-dholpur-101635495933346.html
29-10-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Municipal Corporation chief takes stock of development works in city||The Chief Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) inspected the development works in Yeshwanthpur Assembly Constituency and directed the contractors to complete the ongoing projects as soon as possible, said the BBMP.In the constituency, there are five wards and 110 villages are part of this constituency. In these areas, the projects have been taken up to connect drinking water supply work, sewage work should be completed as soon as possible. The Bangalore Electric Supply Co (BESCOM), which is implementing underground cabling work too, should be completed by the respective officials, instructed the commissioner."On Kengeri road near the metro columns, there are the sinking spots and wherever such problems are there, need to be identified and rectified immediately. Also, in the metro lanes, the chambers need to be fixed," said the commissioner to all officials concerned.In the Herohalli ward, Gandhinagar's Hosakere lake which is 43.3 acres, Bangalore Development Authority had handed over the lake to BBMP in 2019. In this lake, there is a leakage of water in the lake bunds and the water is not getting stored. Also, from the board's line, sewage water is joining the lake. In this regard, BDA and BWSSB should fix these issues and then hand over the lake, said the commissioner.The commissioner did a spot check of the roads in the Doddabommasandra ward.In this, first, Andarahalli main road, near Vidyanagar, Kaveri 5th block, the works have been completed, but the roads are still not fixed. This needs to be immediately fixed, instructed the commissioner to the officials present at the spot and telephoned BWSSB Executive Engineer and asked their team to fix these issues.From BESCOM, the UG lane project of 11KV cable implementation work is going on, and every 100mtrs the road is dug up and the wires are being laid. After digging the road, the roads should be fixed. In the Thigalarapalya main road drainage work is going on and immediately the work should be completed immediately. The potholes should be filled, too and make way for smooth travel for motorists, said the commissioner.In the meeting convened, MLA ST Somashekar, Zonal Commissioner, Reddy Shankar Babu, joint commissioner Nagaraju, road and infrastructure chief, Prahallad and other officials from all departments were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-municipal-corporation-chief-takes-stock-of-development-works-in-city-101635492984573.html
29-10-2021||Jaipur||Stage set in Rajasthan's Vallabhnagar, Dhariawad for assembly bypolls on Oct 30||The stage is all set for bypolls to two assembly seats in Rajasthan's Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad on Saturday, with the election being viewed as a significant test for the performance of the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government.Polling will be held from 7 am to 6 pm at 638 polling booths in both the assembly constituencies and counting of votes will take place on November 2.Though the number of constituencies going to bypolls is not crucial from the viewpoint of the government's stability but the results will send a message across the state about the performance of the government, which had faced a major threat last year due to rebellion of the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs led by him.In election rallies on Tuesday, Gehlot had appealed to voters to vote for Congress saying it is necessary to strengthen the government.Despite palpable discord over the leadership issue, Gehlot and his former deputy Pilot projected a united face by travelling together in a helicopter along with AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra to address rallies in both the constituencies during nomination filing by the party candidates.It was for the second time after last year's crisis that both the leaders travelled together and shared the stage.Leaders of both the parties camped in the constituencies and left no stone unturned in electioneering.While the Congress targeted the Centre over the issue of inflation and fuel and LPG prices hike as well as highlighted the works of the state government during the campaigning, the BJP made law and order, crime rate, unemployment allowance, increased power tariff etc. key poll issues.BJP leaders from Delhi and Jaipur including national general secretary and in charge of party affairs in Rajasthan Arun Singh, union ministers Arjun Munda and SP Singh Baghel addressed rallies.Baghel's controversial remarks on chief minister Gehlot during a rally in Vallabhnagar last week questioning his parentage had also stoked a controversy.The bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena, and Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat.Both of them died due to Covid-19.While the Congress gave ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife Preeti Shaktawat in Vallabhnagar in Udaipur, the BJP disappointed the son of Gautam Lal Meena and fielded Khet Singh Meena in Dhariawad in Pratapgarh against the Congress candidate Nagraj Meena.Nagraj Meena was defeated by Gautam Lal Meena in the 2018 assembly elections with a margin of 23842 votes in Dhariawad.Gautam Lal Meena's son Kanhaiya Meena had filed nomination papers as an independent candidate after being denied ticket by the BJP but the saffron party persuaded him to withdraw the nomination.A total of seven candidates are contesting elections in Dhariawad (ST) constituency.In Vallabhnagar, the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala against Preeti Shaktawat while former BJP MLA and chief of Janta Sena Randhir Singh Bhinder is also contesting as an independent MLA.Bhinder's wife had filed nomination as Janta Sena candidate after denial of ticket from BJP but withdrew the nomination paper later.In the 2018 assembly elections, Bhindar, as the Janta Sena candidate, had given a tough fight to Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and was defeated with a narrow margin of 3,719 votes.Apart from them, BJP's rebel Udailal Dangi is also contesting election as Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) candidate in Vallabhnagar. RLP is the party of Nagaur MP and former BJP leader Hanuman Beniwal.As many as nine candidates are in the fray in Vallabhnagar.Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said bypolls will be conducted as per Covid-19 guidelines.No voter in the constituency has been found suffering from Covid as on Thursday evening.A total of 5,11,455 voters will be able to exercise their franchise with 2,53,831 in Vallabhnagar and 2,57, 624 in Dhariawad.Of the total 638 polling booths, 119 are sensitive.Gupta said 4,468 security personnel have been deployed in both the assembly constituencies for free, fair and peaceful voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/stage-set-in-rajasthan-s-vallabhnagar-dhariawad-for-assembly-bypolls-on-oct-30-101635493041031.html
29-10-2021||Gurugram||Ellenabad bypolls: INLD's Abhay Chautala eyeing hat-trick||The bypoll to the Ellenabad Assembly constituency in Haryana's Sirsa district on Saturday is all set to witness a triangular contest, with opposition INLD's Abhay Singh Chautala, whose resignation over the farm laws issue necessitated the election, eyeing another win.The bypoll will be held on October 30 and the counting will take place on November 2. Gobind Kanda, brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and legislator Gopal Kanda, had joined the BJP recently and had been fielded by the BJP-JJP combine. Pawan Beniwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous assembly poll against Abhay Chautala, recently switched over from the BJP to the Congress. He is in the fray as candidate of the main opposition party.Abhay Chautala's resignation in January over the farm laws issue had necessitated the bypolls to the rural constituency falling in Sirsa district.Over 1.85 lakh voters which includes over 98,000 men and 86,000 women, are eligible to cast their votes.The electioneering for the Ellenabad Assembly seat bypoll ended on Wednesday evening with the three central agriculture laws emerging key issue in the election. Although a total of 19 candidates, mostly independents are in the fray, Abhay Chautala, Beniwal and Gobind Kanda are being considered as key candidates. A major part of the Ellenabad Assembly constituency is rural with people mostly relying on agriculture.The elections for the Ellenabad Assembly seat have been held 14 times in which only the candidates of the party led by late Devi Lal were victorious.However, things are a bit different this time as many members of the Chautala family are part of the BJP-JJP coalition government.       During the campaigning, Abhay Chautala's elder brother and JJP chief Ajay Singh Chautala, the latter's son and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, targeted the INLD leader holding him responsible for the party's decline.        Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, who is an Independent MLA, also campaigned against Abhay Chautala and in favour of the BJP candidate Gobind Kanda. The Congress and BJP have targeted Abhay Chautala, alleging that he had thrust the election on people of Ellenabad. Tight security arrangements have been made for the bypolls with deployment of 30 companies of central security force, five companies of the Rapid Action Force and Haryana Police.One company comprises around 120 personnel. Abhay Chautala is eyeing a hat-trick as he will be contesting his third bypoll. Earlier, he had won the Rori Assembly bypoll in Sirsa district in 2000 and the 2010 bypoll from Ellenabad when INLD chief O P Chautala had vacated the seat as he decided to retain Uchana seat in Jind district, the other seat from which he had contested in 2009 and won.In the 2010 bypolls to Ellenabad, Abhay Chautala won the seat and retained it in 2014 too. He again won Ellenabad in 2019 assembly polls when he was the lone INLD MLA to enter the Assembly. Winning the Saturday's bypoll is crucial for Abhay Chautala as a loss will deal a body blow to the INLD, which in recent years is reeling under series of electoral setbacks.  While the farmers' agitation against the central farm laws has emerged as the biggest factor in this bypoll, some factors like shortage of irrigation facilities in few villages and waterlogging problem in some segments are also likely to play a role in the bypoll.This is the second bypoll within a year which Haryana faces. In November last year, main opposition Congress had retained the Baroda assembly seat after its candidate Indu Raj Narwal defeated BJP nominee and Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt.The Baroda seat in Sonipat district had fallen vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ellenabad-bypolls-inld-s-abhay-chautala-eyeing-hattrick-101635492951878.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan granted bail. What are his lawyers doing to secure his release from jail||Aryan Khan, the eldest son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, has been granted bail by the Bombay high court and his lawyers are waiting for the court's operative order to take the next steps towards securing his release from jail, where he is lodged after he was arrested in drugs-on-cruise case.On Thursday, the single bench of Justice NW Sambre granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested after a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The HC also granted bail to his co-accused and friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha. The high court said it would provide a copy of its order on Friday.Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde on Friday said they are ready with all the requisite documents, including the sureties, and are waiting for the order copy from the high court.Also watch | Aryan Khan, 2 others granted bail in drugs case; what NCB said to oppose bail 
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Counting observers appointed for four Himachal byelections||Himachal Pradesh chief electoral officer C Paulrasu on Friday said that counting observers have been deputed for Saturday’s byelections in the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies. Also read: SAD constitution forgery: Punjab court summons ex-CM Parkash Singh BadalHe said 11 counting observers have been deployed for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection, while three counting observers will oversee the byelections in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai. The general observers deployed in these three assembly constituencies have also been given the responsibility of counting observers. He said 125 counting tables and 19 tables of returning officer and assistant returning officer will be set up at counting centres in Mandi parliamentary constituency. For the counting of votes in Fatehpur and Arki, 10 counting tables and two tables of returning officer and assistant returning officer will be set up in each constituency. Seven counting tables and two tables of returning officer and assistant returning officer will be set up in Jubbal-Kotkhai constituency. Guidelines have been issued to all district election officers and assistant returning officers to complete all arrangements in a time-bound manner for the smooth conduct of counting on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/counting-observers-appointed-for-four-himachal-byelections-101635487431831.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD constitution forgery: Punjab court summons ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal||Hoshiarpur additional chief judicial magistrate Rupinder Singh has summoned former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in a case of alleged forgery of the constitution of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). SAD patriarch Badal was on Thursday asked to appear before the court on November 28. His son, Sukhbir Singh Badal, who is the SAD president, and party spokesperson Dr Daljit Singh Cheema have already got bail in the case. Also read: HC seeks Punjab’s response over ‘illegal’ takeover of Patti gurdwaraAccording to a directive of November 4, 2019, on the plea of complainant Balwant Singh Khera, Badal, Sukhbir and Cheema were to be summoned. Sukhbir and Cheema have already appeared. “Let accused Parkash Singh Badal be summoned on November 28,” the court order concluded. Complainant cites SAD’s ‘panthic’ activities Khera, a social activist, had complained that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that it had submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political outfit. He alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism, whereas it continued its activities as a ‘panthic’ party and openly participated in gurdwara elections. Sufficient evidence against Badals: HC On August 27, the Punjab and Haryana high court disposed of a petition by the SAD against the proceedings of the Hoshiarpur court, saying there was sufficient evidence before the judicial magistrate to summon Badal, Sukhbir and Cheema on their undertakings regarding the party’s constitution. “Sufficient material has come on record wherein contrary stands have been taken regarding the constitution of the political party and whether it has adopted the principles of secularism or is still a religious party. It has also come on record that the SAD has been contesting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee elections,” the high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia observed. The SAD leaders had approached the high court in 2019, seeking a stay on the trial after the Hoshiarpur additional chief judicial magistrate summoned them in the case. The high court stayed the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-constitution-forgery-punjab-court-summons-ex-cm-parkash-singh-badal-101635486591314.html
29-10-2021||Kolkata||TMC, BJP gear up for close contest in four Bengal bypolls||As West Bengal registered a rise in Covid-19 cases post Durga Puja, the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and its main contender, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), geared up for a close contest in the assembly bypolls to be held on Saturday, October 30, at Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, Santipur in Nadia district, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas.Two of these constituencies, Dinhata and Santipur, were won by the BJP in the March-April polls but the winners did not take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats. In the rest two, the TMC’s winning candidates died.All four districts where bypolls will be held are located along the Bangladesh border and have a record of illegal infiltration, smuggling and influx of Hindu refugees during India’s partition in 1947 and creation of Bangladesh after the 1971 war. Since Hindus are in the majority in all these seats, the BJP is referring to history in its campaign and focusing on the recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh.“The attack on the minority Hindus in Bangladesh will increase the BJP’s margin of victory at Santipur three times,” leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, told local voters last week.“I know only sanatan (eternal) Hindus voted for me. I bow only before them and not the others. I proudly admit that I wash the feet of cows because the cow is our mother. You must proudly declare that you are Hindus,” Adhikari said at Gosaba on Monday.“Murder of ISKCON saints or torture on #BengaliHindus in Bangladesh does not move CM Mamta Banerjee or other ruling party leaders. They play as silent observers, the sole reason behind their muteness is minority Muslim vote bank,” BJP national vice president Ghosh tweeted after addressing voters at Khardah.While campaigning at Dinhata on Monday, the chief minister’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee countered the attacks.“The leader of the opposition is saying that BJP will win these elections because Bengali Hindus in Bangladesh have been attacked. I want to ask the BJP what it has done for Hindus in India,” said Banerjee.Political experts feel that Dinhata will witness the most fierce contest as the BJP, which wrested the seat by 57 votes, has grown fast in north Bengal. The party bagged seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and 30 of the 54 assembly seats in the eight north Bengal districts although the TMC won 213 of the state’s 294 seats.Though the BJP bagged 77 seats in Bengal, it is now left with 71 legislators as four have returned to the TMC since June. The ruling party, on the other hand, has increased its tally to 215 by winning two seats in Murshidabad district where bypolls were held in September.DinhataNumber of voters: 299,251Number of candidates: 6Prominent candidates: Udayan Guha (TMC), Ashok Mondal (BJP), Abdur Rouf (Forward Bloc)Why polls are being held: Winner did not take oath to retain Lok Sabha seat.Who won last time: Nisith Pramanik (BJP) by 57 votesSantipurNumber of voters: 255619Number of candidates: 7Prominent candidates: Niranjan Biswas (BJP), Brajakishore Goswami (TMC), Soumen Mahato (CPI-M), Raju Pal (Congress)Why polls are being held: Winner did not take oath to retain Lok Sabha seat.Who won last time: Jagannath Sarkar (BJP) by 15878 votesKhardahNumber of voters: 232,619Number of candidates: 6Prominent candidates: Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay (TMC), Joy Saha (BJP), Debajyoti Das (CPI-M)Why polls are being held: Winning candidate died of Covid-19Who won last time: Kajal Sinha (TMC) by 28140 votesGosaba (SC)Number of voters: 230,348Number of candidates: 5Prominent candidates: Subrata Mondal (TMC), Palash Rana (BJP), Anil Chandra Mondal (RSP)Why polls are being held: Winning candidate died.Who won last time: Jayanta Naskar (TMC) by 23709 votes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-bjp-gear-up-for-close-contest-in-four-bengal-bypolls-101635485908178.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||14°C: Delhi records lowest minimum temp this season, air quality deteriorates||New Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 14 degrees Celsius, the lowest so far this season, as the air quality deteriorated to reach closer to the “very poor” category on Friday. The air quality was likely to reach the “very poor” category by Friday evening and remain in this range for the subsequent 24 hours.On Thursday, New Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 14.6 degrees Celsius - one degree below normal.The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 279 (very poor) at 8am on Friday compared to 268 a day earlier. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) classifies an AQI between 51 and 100 as “satisfactory”, between 101 and 200 as “moderate”, between 201 and 300 as “poor”, between 301 and 400 as “very poor” and beyond 401 “severe”.Experts say a mix of factors were leading to the deterioration in air quality. They include a drop in wind speed at night, a spike in farm fires, and low temperatures. On Thursday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, a body under the ministry of earth sciences, said the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s air touched a high of 19% this season, with over 500 fires recorded across the northern plains.Northwesterly winds were largely bringing pollutants from Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi. Parts of Delhi also reported mist on Friday morning. “There is sufficient moisture in the air at the moment and so misty conditions may be seen in parts of Delhi in the mornings now,” said an official.The CPCB on Thursday banned the use of diesel generator sets and ordered enhancing of parking fee by up to four times in Delhi-NCR as part of measures listed under the Graded Response Action Plan when the air quality hits “very poor”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/14c-delhi-records-lowest-minimum-temp-this-season-air-quality-deteriorates-101635485931666.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Gogi murder aftermath: Gangster ‘Bachi’ killed in shootout with cops in Delhi||A man suspected to be a member of slain criminal Jitender Gogi’s gang was shot dead in a shootout with police late on Thursday night. Two police personnel sustained injuries during the gunfight that took place in New Delhi’s Begumpur area.Although there has been no official confirmation yet from the Delhi Police, HT has learnt that the man who died in the shootout was Deepak alias “Bachi”. A police officer, requesting not to be named, said “Bachi” was wanted in connection with the murder of a person named Deepak Singh alias “Radhe”. Pranav Tayal, the deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), confirmed that there was a shootout between the police and a criminal, but he didn’t share any details.Also Read: Have taken steps to upgrade security at seven district courts in Delhi, HC told“Radhe”, an alleged member of the Tillu Tajpuriya gang, was shot dead by accomplices of gangster Jitender Gogi on October 11 apparently because he was holding a party to celebrate Gogi’s murder. Police have formally arrested gangsters Rohit Moi - Gogi’s second in command - and Kapil Maan, both of whom were in jail. Two others, Sahil Solanki and Naveen Sharma, have also been arrested. On September 24, when Delhi gangster Jitender Gogi was produced at a court in New Delhi’s Rohini for a hearing, he was shot 18 times by two gunmen inside the courtroom, and died. The two gunmen entered the courtroom posing as lawyers, waited for over half an hour for Gogi to show up, and opened fire on him. Until his arrest in March 2020, Gogi, a resident of Alipur in outer Delhi who had at least 19 criminal cases against him, was No 1 on the list of the Delhi Police’s most wanted men.Delhi Police and the Capital’s prison administrations are on high alert since Jitender Gogi’s sensational murder. Police suspect that Gogi’s associates may now try to murder gangster Tillu Tajpuriya. Police teams across the city are on the lookout for members of both the Tillu and Gogi gangs. It was learnt that on Thursday, acting on a tip-off, a police team from Rohini traced “Bachi” and asked him to surrender. A police officer, who asked not to be named, said “Bachi” fired at the police team, which led to the shootout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gogi-murder-aftermath-gangster-bachi-killed-in-shootout-with-cops-in-delhi-101635484011433.html
29-10-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: Calcutta high court to hear plea seeking blanket ban on firecrackers||The Calcutta high court is scheduled to hear a plea on Friday seeking a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers even as the state government has allowed the use of green crackers on Kali Puja, Chhath Puja, Christmas, and New Year eve.The government on Tuesday allowed the bursting of green crackers for two hours during Kali Puja and Chhath Puja and for around 35 minutes on Christmas and New Year eve, following which a plea was filed in the court.A group of doctors, environment experts and medical associations in Kolkata submitted a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting a blanket ban on firecrackers. The Centre has warned the state of rising Covid-19 cases in Bengal after the Durga Puja.“Much damage has been caused by the rampant violations of Covid-19 safety protocols during the Durga Puja. Cases have started rising once again in the city and across the state. We should at least show some restraint during Kali Puja by not bursting crackers and fireworks this time. The smoke and pollution would cause more harm to patients who are suffering from Covid-19 or are recovering from the disease,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors.In 2020, the high court banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government too appealed to the people to avoid bursting firecrackers to check air pollution.The Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state, ended on October 15 and the daily count of Covid-19 cases is again hovering around the 1000-mark after over three months. While 976 new cases were detected on Wednesday, on Thursday the number shot up to 990.The state government has reimposed micro-containment zones including in Howrah, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, and Jalpaiguri. Police have started intensifying action against those violating Covid-19 safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-calcutta-high-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-blanket-ban-on-firecrackers-101635478911105.html
29-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan gets bail, Bombay high court to dictate judgment today||The Bombay high court will on Friday dictate the judgment in open court after granting bail to Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs raid case. Aryan Khan will be able to walk out of the Arthur Road jail, where he is currently lodged under judicial custody, only the court gives its operative order on the conditions imposed while granting bail. The legal team of the 23-year-old Aryan Khan will now try to complete the formalities for his release by Friday or Saturday.A single bench of Justice NW Sambre also granted bail to Aryan Khan's co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha."All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening," Justice Sambre said on Thursday even as Aryan Khan's counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments.Also read | Aryan Khan's ordeal opens legal debateAryan Khan's lawyers then sought permission to submit cash bail but the court refused it and said surety is to be given. Hearing on their bail applications started on Tuesday."I could have given the order tomorrow also. But I gave it today," Justice Sambre said.Aryan Khan has already spent 25 days at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, along with Merchant, for alleged consumption of drugs and alleged conspiracy under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Dhamecha was lodged at the Byculla women prison on similar charges.Also read | Why Aryan’s case highlights aberrations“It was a hard and tough battle after lost in the first court. This case was a cynosure of all eyes in the country and people were eagerly waiting for the result," the former attorney general of India Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Aryan in the high court, told reporters outside the court.Aryan was arrested by NCB on October 3, a day after NCB official Sammer Wankhede led a raid on the cruise ship docked off the Mumbai coast. Wankhede said that 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the ship.He also claimed that Aryan was linked to international drug cartels, and therefore needed to remain in custody.Also read | Aryan Khan promises financial help to some prisoners' families: ReportMeanwhile, the NCB's special enquiry team (SET) has asked Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness who has alleged extortion attempt by the agency's officials in the drugs bust case, to appear before it on Friday, an official release said.NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh on Thursday wrote a letter to the Mumbai Police commissioner asking the police to convey to Sail that he should appear before the SET "any time after 10 am for recording his statement and submitting evidence" it said.Mumbai Police, who are probing allegations of extortion against NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and others following Aryan Khan's arrest in the drug seizure case, have recorded Sail's statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-gets-bail-bombay-high-court-to-dictate-judgment-today-101635476205610.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Rohan Jaitley retains DDCA presidency; Siddharth Verma becomes secretary||Rohan Jaitley, the son of former Union minister Arun Jaitley, is set to remain the president of the Delhi and Districts Cricket Association (DDCA) and former Delhi chief minister late Sahib Singh Verma's youngest son and cricketer Siddharth Verma will be the new secretary.Jaitley gained the post after defeating Supreme Court Bar Association chief Vikas Singh. It was the second time that Singh encountered a defeat for the president's post. Last time, Singh lost to senior journalist Rajat Sharma.Siddharth Verma, whose team was using the hashtag #CleanDDCA to promote his panel, also received support from one of Delhi’s most prominent former cricketers, Virender Sehwag, as well as actor Parveen Dabas and rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh.Verma knocked off former DDCA secretary Vinod Tihara for the secretary's post. Tihara and his supporters left the Feroz Shah Kotla premises once they knew that they wouldn't be able to surpass Verma, reported news agency PTI."It is a great victory for me personally. I would like to extend all my co-operation towards Rohan and work for the betterment of Delhi cricket. I have been a cricketer and working for their cause would be the priority," Verma, a former DDCA senior selector and BCCI sub-committee member told PTI.Former BCCI acting president CK Khanna's wife Shashi Khanna also retained her vice president's post. Cricketer-turned politician Gautam Gambhir's maternal uncle Pawan Gulati will be the new treasurer of the DDCA.Another candidate Rakesh Bansal, the younger brother of former BCCI vice president Sneh Bansal, was wiped away as he finished a distant third in the election for secretary's post.The elections were held on October 25, 26 and 27 for the posts of president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, treasurer and seven directors. The memberships to the DDCA can be sought by anybody as it is not a closed body. The current electorate comprises lawyers, family members of cricketers and other professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohan-jaitley-retains-ddca-presidency-siddharth-verma-becomes-secretary-101635473047806.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||8 of 10 kids in Delhi have Covid antibodies||Despite not being vaccinated against the coronavirus disease, nearly 82% of Delhi residents aged below 18 have were found to have antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, according to the preliminary report of the city’s sixth serological survey made public on Thursday. Experts cited this widespread seroprevalence among Delhi’s children to argue for the reopening of schools, a move that the state government announced just a day earlier.The antibody-prevalence among children falls just six percentage points short of Delhi’s unadjusted seroprevalence of 88.2%, according to the data. When adjusted for the sensitivity of the kits, Delhi’s overall seroprevalence stands at 97%.Health experts said the statistic was evidence that while a large number of children were infected with Covid-19, they were mostly asymptomatic, as a result of which eight in 10 of Delhi’s children have safely gained antibodies against the infection.
29-10-2021||Delhi||‘Firecracker ban not to target any festival, but to protect right to life': SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the firecracker ban in Delhi and other parts of the country was not targeted at any community or festival but to protect the right to life of the citizens, even as another top court bench directed the Union government to take all possible steps to stop stubble burning in states neighbouring the national capital.Justice MR Shah, during a hearing of the firecracker ban by a bench also comprising justice AS Bopanna, said: “We are not against any particular community. We are not against any particular festival or celebration. But we cannot permit anyone to play with the right to life of others in the guise of celebration. We want to send strong message that we are here for the protection of fundamental rights of the citizens.”
29-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Bench in blossom||It’s just a bench. But right now it is hewn out of the sun’s very soul.This is one of the most thaumaturgic sights in Delhi. The setting is Lodhi Gardens. The chosen bench, close to the Athpula stone bridge, lies in a most strategic point. The dipping sun directly hits it at about 5.30pm (October time).This evening, the green seat is dappled in an impossible-to-capture-on-camera misty halo of amber. Pools of luminous light have fallen on the leaf-strewn ground in front of the bench, as well as on the leaf-strewn space behind it. Being empty, the bench is also saturated with the well-known poignancy of all empty park benches, but that mundane melancholy doesn’t dampen the moment’s fantastical spectacle.For now, the painted metal of the bench seems to have lost its solidness, as if the bench were an apparition that could be seen and felt but not touched. Dappled in the dreaminess of the setting sun, it seems to be entirely composed of some supernatural essence containing and concealing a blessing (or a curse). You are reluctant to come close to it, the way one is wary of approaching a person believed to be possessed by a spirit.This perception of the sun-bathed bench isn’t universally shared, though. On some evenings, it is casually claimed by a random park visitor, who shows no consideration for its gold-filled aura. One evening a woman was sitting on it, absorbed in a talk-of-the-town novel. She looked like a sculpture, cast into a red-edged silhouette.The only drawback of this experience is that the magical light stays on the bench too briefly. Try to be here in advance so as not to miss the fleeting moment. Later, the bench retreats to its ordinary existence, and becomes part of the park’s post-dusk darkness. The visitor is left with a feeling of saudade, that enigmatic Portuguese word evoking a sad and intense longing for something that doesn’t exist. The bench lies across the jogging track from a public loo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-bench-in-blossom-101635463002019.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Manjinder Singh takes over as 16 Corps commander||Amid the protracted Poonch encounter that entered Day 18 on Thursday, the Nagrota-based White Knight Corps underwent the change of guard. Lieutenant General Manjinder Singh, YSM, VSM, took over the charge of the general officer in commanding of the White Knight Corps, also called 16 Corps, from Lt Gen Suchindra Kumar. White Knight Corps of the Indian Army has the responsibility of guarding the strategic and sensitive Line of Control (LoC) from Akhnoor in Jammu district to Poonch, south of Pir Panjal range. It also looks after the hinterland. Meanwhile, on the Day 18 of the Poonch encounter, success eluded the security forces. “The cordon and search operation is on, but there is no further headway,” said a defence spokesperson. On Tuesday, the security forces had recovered some arms and ammunition from Nar Khas forest near Bhata Dhurian in Mendhar subdivision of Poonch district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lt-gen-manjinder-singh-takes-over-as-16-corps-commander-101635462229722.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Govt employee terminated for ‘celebrating’ Pak victory over India in cricket match||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday terminated an operation theatre technician of the Rajouri government medical college for ‘celebrating’ Pakistan’s victory over India in a T20 World Cup match. According to an order issued by Rajouri GMC principal Dr Brij Mohan, the OT technician identified as Safiya Majeet as terminated from services with immediate effect. She was engaged on academic arrangement basis under SRO-24. “Whereas a viral video has come to the notice of undersigned from different media platforms and also from Dysp HQ, Rajouri who sent the same via WhatsApp in which Safiya Majeed OT Technician, engaged and working as OT Technician in GMC & AH Rajouri seems to have posted her whatsapp status showing celebration of defeat of Indian Cricket Team against Pakistan in T-20 World Cup 2021, the activity which seems to be disloyalty towards nation,” read the order. The order reads that “no employee of the institution will be allowed to be disloyal to the nation”. “And whereas, as reported by HOD Gynae and Obst., the said engagee proceeded on casual leave for five days w.e.f 21-10-2021 and also failed to join her duties on expiry of the said leave. And whereas no prior notice is required to be given to such employee for gross indiscipline in her duties,” the order said. “Now, therefore keeping in view above facts and circumstances, it is hereby ordered that the services of Safiya Majeed OT Technician engaged on academic arrangement basis under SRO-24 (now read as S.O 364 dated 27-11- 2020) stands terminated with immediate effect,” it said. Safiya had on October 23 posted WhatsApp status updates from 11.32pm to 11.49pm showing the celebration of the defeat of the Indian cricket team against Pakistan. Release Kashmiri students, demands MehboobaFormer J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday demanded the release of Kashmiri students arrested in UP after the India-Pakistan T20 match.Mother of one arrested students, Showkat Shaban of Bandipore, has also demanded release of his son terming him innocent.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said crackdown on the students within and outside state is reprehensible.“Crackdown on Kashmiri students both within J&K and outside is reprehensible. Situation in J&K after two years of suppression should’ve been an eye opener for GOI and lead to course correction.BJPs pseudo patriotism disregards the idea of India. Release these students immediately,” Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.Students of Raja Balwant Singh Management Technical Campus in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra were arrested on Wednesday evening following an FIR lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station, a police official had said. Atika, mother of one of the arrested students in Uttar Pradesh, also demanded release of his son... “I came to know about the arrest of my son through social media. I am an illiterate woman. Showkat is innocent. I have sent him to UP for education after hardships and poverty with a hope his education will change our future. I appeal to the government that if my son has done something wrong, he should be forgiven and released,” said mother of Showkat Shaban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-employee-terminated-for-celebrating-pak-victory-over-india-in-cricket-match-101635462049739.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Not an inch of farmers’ land acquired by outsider in J&K: LG Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday said not an inch of farmers’ land has been acquired by any outsider in Jammu and Kashmir, and added that attempts were being made to spread confusion in the UT.While inaugurating an apple festival at Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre here, Sinha said no outside person can acquire land of any farmer in J&K. “There is a law that agricultural land can’t be acquired by any person except a farmer,” he added.The Centre had in October last year amended major land laws and notified rules allowing outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in J&K. The J&K Land Revenue Act would not allow any land used for agriculture purposes to be used for any non-agricultural purposes “except with the permission of the district collector”.Last week, the J&K administration, however, had authorised the district collectors to transfer agricultural land to a non-agriculturists for extending the primary activity on a larger commercial scale. On Monday, Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, had alleged that the “efforts to seize resources and alter demography continued in J&K”.Sinha said that the J&K government is legally bound to protect the agricultural land.‘Those who suffered losses due to recent snowfall will get aid’The farmers who suffered losses in the recent snowfall will be provided assistance, Sinha said, adding that the snowfall has been declared as a natural calamity.“The assessment of the loss is going on. The farmers will be provided all possible assistance,” he added. The early snowfall in Kashmir on October 22 and 23 had put thousands of farmers in misery as the snow damaged fruit-laden apple orchards particularly in the Pir Panjal region of Shopian and Kulgam in south Kashmir. Sinha said as the agriculture and allied sectors were contributing to J&K’s economy, they were working to increase the contribution of the apple sector by 10% in the next three years.“We have initiated many plans. I understand that if J&K has to move ahead on the path of development, its important source is agriculture and allied sectors, particularly horticulture,” he said, adding that all assistance will be provided for the development of the horticulture sector. Kashmir is India’s largest apple grower with an average annual production of nearly 2,200 metric tonnes. The apple industry fetches revenue of nearly ₹1,300 crore.The government had deputed requisite field staff in south Kashmir’s snowstorm affected apple orchards to assess the damage caused to trees and fruits and also asked them to furnish the report and recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-an-inch-of-farmers-land-acquired-by-outsider-in-j-k-lg-sinha-101635461749760.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||J&K land encroachment case: Chargesheet filed against educational trust ex-chairperson, patwari||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against the then chairperson of an educational trust based at Kathua and then patwari of Muthi Hardo in Kathua on the allegations of illegal possession and encroachment of land by said educational trust, said officials. CBI had registered an instant case against RB Educational Trust (through its chairperson Kanta Andotra, who is wife of former minister Choudhary Lal Singh) based at Kathua and others on September 12 last year. Earlier, a preliminary inquiry was conducted by CBI on the allegations of encroachment of huge tract of government and forest land in Kathua (J&K) by certain persons in violation of the J&K Agrarian Reforms Act in connivance with revenue and forest officials. Searches were also conducted on September 15 last year at 10 locations, including in Jammu and Kathua. “During investigation it was found that the then chairperson of said educational trust allegedly entered into conspiracy with the then patwari Muthi Hardo, tehsil Hiranagar (now Marheen) in Kathua. It was also alleged that in pursuance to the conspiracy, farads (maps describing measurement, directions and size of land) were issued by the said patwari, without mentioning the details in respect of ceiling imposed under the J&K Agrarian Reforms Act and mutations were attested, thus facilitating illegal acquisition of land beyond ceiling limit by the said educational trust in gross violation of the Agrarian Reforms Act,” said a spokesperson. Further investigation is on in the case. In September last year, an FIR was also registered against former deputy commissioner of Kathua Ajay Singh Jamwal, former tehsildar of Marheen Avatar Singh and others on allegations of having facilitated the trust in possessing land much beyond the limit and submitting a false affidavits in its support, causing loss to the state exchequer. The trust runs a school, BEd (Bachelor of Education) and nursing colleges on the land, transactions of which are being probed by the central agency for alleged irregularities in their purchase. The then forest minister, Lal Singh, and industries minister Chander Prakash Ganga had resigned from the PDP-BJP dispensation in 2018 after questions were raised over their participation in a Hindu Ekta Manch rally organised in support of those arrested in connection with the rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in Kathua that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-land-encroachment-case-chargesheet-filed-against-educational-trust-ex-chairperson-patwari-101635461629778.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: 1 held in Kishtwar with firearm||Police on Thursday arrested a suspect, Salman Saleem, from a check post and recovered a countrymade firearm from his possession. “Based on the inputs regarding movement of one suspicious person, a joint check post was set up at Malipath where he was caught,” said a spokesperson. A case has been registered. Vaishno Devi Shrine Board sets up sales outlet at J&K House in DelhiThe Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has set up a sales outlet at J&K Guest House in New Delhi for the sale of gold medallions of 2gm, 5gm and 10gm and silver coins of 5gm, 10gm and 20gm denominations. The sale outlet shall remain functional up to November 5. First Ladakh bird festival beginsThe first-ever Ladakh Bird Festival began in Leh on Thursday. Chief guest, chief executive councillor of LAHDC-Leh Tashi Gyalson extended his gratitude to the department of wildlife protection for conducting the festival. Four more die of Covid in HP, 98 test positive in J&KHimachal’s Covid caseload rose to 2,23,619 after 213 more people tested positive on Thursday and death toll reached 3,729 after four died. The active case count slightly dropped to 1,956 while recoveries reached 2,17,918 after 225 people recuperated. J&K recorded 98 fresh Covid cases and a death due to the disease on Thursday. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 72 with active cases reaching 863. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,668 prompting the recovery rate to rise to 98.4%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,31,963 and the death toll reaches 4,432.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-1-held-in-kishtwar-with-firearm-101635461389681.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic restored on Manali-Leh highway||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) restored the traffic movement on strategic Manali-Leh highway, which was blocked since October 17 due to heavy snowfall.Snowfall in the higher reaches, including Baralacha La, Tanglang La and Lachung La had blocked all kinds of traffic movement. BRO commander Col Umashankar said they had pressed men and machinery into the restoration work and the highway was opened on Thursday. “Initially, the road has been opened for four-wheel drive and army vehicles and if the sky remains clear, the normal traffic would resume on Friday,” he said.He said BRO had reached Baralacha La on October 24, but the road was again closed due to fresh spell of snow.There was 3-4ft snow on the Baralachal La, he said, and added that BRO personnel worked day and night amid minus temperature to clear the road.The commander said that BRO will now turn its focus to restore Kunzum pass and Shinkula pass.He, however, urged the people to travel on these routes only after checking the daily weather forecast.Bodies of 3 Maha trekkers recovered from Barua PassMeanwhile, the rescuers from ITBP have recovered the bodies of three Maharashtra trekkers who were killed after being stuck in a snowstorm at Barua Pass, which connects Rohru of Shimla with Kinnaur, on October 24.The bodies were extricated from the snow and being brought to Kinnaur by the troopers of 17 battalion of ITBP. “The search operation had begun on October 24. Three bodies were recovered this morning and are being brought down,” said ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey.The deceased have been identified as Deepak Rao, Ashon Bale, and Rajendra Pathak. They were part of a 13-member group which had embarked on a trek from Rohru to Kinnaur on October 17. They were caught in a snowstorm at Barua Pass. While the three died, 10 others were rescued on October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-restored-on-manali-leh-highway-101635460369854.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Double murders: Teen instigated by mother to kill grandparents for room in Ludhiana village||A day after the cold-blooded double murder of an elderly couple at the hands of their 17-year-old grandson at Lal Kalan village of Samrala sent shock waves through the district, the police have arrested their daughter-in-law for instigating her son to commit the crime. An aggrieved relative said the accused woman had also alleged that her father-in-law had molested her and filmed obscene videos featuring her after they had a spat over her share in a 125 square-yard house owned by the family. The teenager is still at large.A neighbour said that the boy was gripped by such a rage that he thrashed his grandparents – Darshan Singh, 72, and Surinder Kaur, 70 – with a baseball bat before hacking them to death. “When we intervened, he threatened to kill us too,” he said. After the murders, the boy and his mother fled from the spot. At the time of the incident, his father and elder sister were at work.The victims’ daughter, Davinder Kaur, said her father had a 125-square yard house with three rooms in Lal Kalan village. “He had given one room each to his two sons and kept one room for himself, but he was living in a rented accommodation in Doraha after locking the room.”“My younger brother lives in Machhiwara with his family and had also locked his room, while my elder brother was living in one room with his wife, daughter and son. My brother was asking our father for keys to his room as he was not living there, but my father was reluctant. A case is also pending between my father and brother in the court,”said Kaur.“On Wednesday, my parents had come to the village to get their woollen clothes. The accused had an argument with them, after which my sister-in-law asked her son to kill both his grandparents,”she said.Inspector Kulwant Singh, the Samrala station house officer, said two months ago the police had been involved in their family dispute and both parties had been booked under sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “The boy knew that his mother had accused her father-in-law of molesting her, which had enraged him,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/double-murders-teen-instigated-by-mother-to-kill-grandparents-for-room-in-ludhiana-village-101635459109413.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||While drooling over sweets, beware of pink colour: Ludhiana health officials||Come Diwali, sweetmeat shops across the city are laden with eye-catching delicacies of all shapes, colours and varieties. However, those favouring the colour pink, when it comes to sweets, may be doing so to the detriment of their health, officials have said. The health department has banned the use of pink colour in sweets, as it has been established to be a carcinogen, but the practice is still going on unabated across the district. On Thursday, the health department teams destroyed 256kg of pink-coloured sweets, which primarily constituted cham-chams and rasgullas. As per district health officer, Dr Dinesh Garg, while yellow and green colouring has been permitted, pink has been banned. “We have formed separate teams to carry out inspections at processing units. While four teams were formed for the city, one team each is scouting sweet shops in Khanna, Samrala, Piyal, Doraha, Machhiwara and Jodhan.The teams also collected 70 samples from their respective areas and sent them for testing, while rasing awareness among locals and confectioners. A sweet maker, on condition of anonymity, said, “The use of pink colour in ‘cham cham’ has been taking place for ages. This is the first I am hearing of it being toxic to health. Besides, customers prefer coloured sweets over all others.”District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Garg said, “This particular colour is stated as carcinogenic and banned by the government. He also asked people to make sure the chocolates they were purchasing were not expired and had been stored at the recommended temperature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/while-drooling-over-sweets-beware-of-pink-colour-ludhiana-health-officials-101635458269408.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD trains guns on Bharat Bhushan Ashu, his wife over dilapidated condition of roads in Ludhiana||The Deep Nagar road cave-in has snowballed into a political controversy with Shiromani Akali Dal leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal demanding a high-level probe into development works carried out in the name the smart city mission.Grewal said, “The road cave-in is not a stray incident. A similar incident took place in Haibowal four days ago. Both Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and his councillor wife Mamta Ashu cannot escape from responsibility as there is rampant corruption in the civic body. The couple are the de facto authority of the municipal corporation, while officials merely act as rubber stamps.” “If the couple can install multiple hoardings to project themselves as custodians of development in the city, then why are they shying away from taking the responsibility for dilapidated condition of roads in the city,’ he said. He also said that Mamta had pretended to take the moral high ground when she had tweeted that illegal hoardings with the photograph of Bharat Bhushan be removed. “It was actually aimed at removing my (Grewal’s) hoardings in the West constituency. Yesterday, during the visit of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, illegal hoardings of the couple dotted the city,” said Grewal.Channi no Aam AadmiGrewal said that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s common man image was just a publicity stunt as he has been selective in meeting people. Grewal said that before the CM’s scheduled visit, the SAD leaders had sought time to submit a memorandum to CM demanding the arrest of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) Chief Simarjeet Singh Bains, but we could not meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-trains-guns-on-bharat-bhushan-ashu-his-wife-over-dilapidated-condition-of-roads-in-ludhiana-101635457789353.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Fancy numbers of CH01-CG series to go under hammer from Nov 6||The registration and licensing authority (RLA) is all set to conduct the auction of its new series CH01-CG, for which the registration process started on Thursday.Registrations will continue till 5pm on November 5 and the bidding process will start on November 6. Bidding will conclude at 5pm on November 8.In this regard, an official of the department said that along with the new series, the department is also going to offer leftover fancy numbers of all the old series during the auction. Last time, the department had got a good response during the auction of fancy numbers of CH01-CF, with a total revenue of ₹1.10 crore. In this series, the highest number 0001 was auctioned for ₹9.33 lakh.The leftover numbers in the series to be put up for auction are CH01-CF, CH01-CE, CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01 -BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS series numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-fancy-numbers-of-ch01-cg-series-to-go-under-hammer-from-nov-6-101635457129259.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: New vending zones to come up at sites with higher footfall||To maximise earning potential of street vendors, more vending sites will be created at locations in the city which have higher footfall of potential customers. UT adviser Dharam Pal on Thursday directed the municipal corporation to examine and work on creating alternative sites for the street vendors so that their income increases. Pal said, “We have been receiving number of complaints and representations that the current vending sites are proving to be financially unproductive. There is no point relocating the vendors to sites where footfall is low. We need to create more opportunities for them so that their livelihood is not impacted adversely.” Except for “no vending zones” areas like Sector 17, all other locations in the city will be explored for resettling the vendors, said Pal. Currently, there are 46 earmarked vending zones throughout the city. Notably, the MC recently got approval from the UT urban planning department for 15 new zones to resettle around 1,500 vendors. These include Sectors 19, 20, 24, 41, 45 and 52, Ram Darbar, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran. Of these, maximum vendors will be resettled in Ram Darbar, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran. Earlier, under the policy of resettling street vendors from the city’s markets, the MC with the assistance of the administration had created vending sites across the city. The street vendors from different markets, particularly from the no-vending zones, were moved there. Most of them were moved to these clusters like in Sector 15, but have complained that the financial viability of these sites remain poor. In some cases, the vendors even refused to move to new zones as they contended there was little or no potential of income generation. Around 2,000 street vendors have not even taken possession of the spaces allotted to them. Notably, the issue has come into greater focus in the background of the Covid pandemic, wherein many street vendors lost their livelihood. The issue is also politically sensitive, as both BJP and Congress have regularly sparred over the matter and with MC elections around the corner, it has gained added importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-new-vending-zones-to-come-up-at-sites-with-higher-footfall-101635456889309.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in: Deep Nagar area has seen four cave-ins in 2 years||Roads in the city are still prone to frequent road cave-ins and the Deep Nagar area has witnessed an astonishing four cave-ins in two years. Two of the incidents, including the one on Thursday, were reported outside the old residence of mayor Balkar Sandhu. On October 24, a man and his son had a narrow escape after their car overturned when a portion of the road caved in at Haibowal. Similarly, the driver of a tipper had a close shave after a major portion of the road collapsed near the cremation ground in Model Town Extension on July 22 and the tipper got stuck in the pit. A large portion of road constructed over five-decade-old brick sewer lines also caved in on October 6 and a truck got stuck in the pit in Guru Nanak Pura near Kailash Chowk.A resident of Deep Naar, Nikhil said that with four incidents reported in the last two years, there is always a fear in the minds of the residents. “The authorities should check water and sewer lines in the entire area, so that no such incident is reported in future. Fortunately, no lives were lost in the incident that took place on Thursday, but others may not be so lucky. Road cave-ins have also been reported in Dugri, Kaka Marriage palace Road, and Model Town Extension. A driver died after a road cave-in incident was reported at Kaka marriage palace road in 2011. In 2013, an 80-ft crater had been formed near the Dhami Eye Hospital after the sewer line collapsed. First focus on basic infrastructure: Smart City DirectorBlaming lack of workmanship in the municipal corporation (MC), one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) Sanjay Goel said that the department should first focus on developing the basic infrastructure in the city and only then can a smart city be developed.Sarcastic digs abound on social media Soon after the road cave-in was reported in Deep Nagar, residents took to social networking sites to slam authorities over their claims regarding the smart city mission. Taking a sarcastic dig, residents demanded a regular city rather than a smart city where roads cave-in. No equipment to check underground leakage: MCMC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that there is no technology available to check leakage in the underground water and sewer lines and immediate action is taken whenever residents complain of depressions on roads. A proposal to change the decades old sewer line in different parts of the city is also in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-deep-nagar-area-has-seen-four-cave-ins-in-2-years-101635456470587.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Five more judges to take oath in Panjab & Haryana high court today||The Centre on Thursday notified the appointment of five lawyers as additional judges of Punjab and Haryana high court. They will take the oath of office on Friday.The five lawyers are senior advocate Vikas Suri; additional advocate general, Haryana, Sandeep Moudgil; Vinod Sharma (Bhardwaj); senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain and senior advocate, Jasjit Singh Bedi. With this, the number of judges will reach 50 in the high court. The names of four lawyers were recommended for elevation on September 1 by the Supreme Court collegium and that of Sandeep Moudgil on September 29. The high court collegium had recommended their names in August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-more-judges-to-take-oath-in-panjab-haryana-high-court-today-101635456469125.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in:Heard our screams echoing before blacking out, say victims||The siblings, who suffered injuries on their limbs and back, say they do not remember much as they blacked out immediately after falling into the crater. The only thing they heard before the blackness engulfed them were their own terrified screams. The victims, Mahi Malhotra and Kanav Malhotra, said they had no time to apply brakes as the road suddenly collapsed after the school bus in front of them moved. Mahi said,”Soon after falling into the crater, we blacked out and just remembered screaming. The residents came to our rescue and we were then taken to a house from where our father took us to the hospital.” Their parents, Dr Yogesh Malhotra and Shweta Malhotra, were relieved that their children pulled through the incident without a major injury or worse. They were informed of the incident by a family friend who was passing through the area. The children were asked to rest after their discharge from the hospital where they were provided first aid. The students, who are residents of Chhawni Mohalla, said they did not usually take the Deep Nagar route, but made an exception on the day of the mishap as they were running late. Shweta said,” Usually my husband or I take the kids to school, but they went on their own on Thursday and also took a different route. Fortunately, they did not sustain any serious injury.” The victims’ grandfather, Raj Malhotra, said they have not filed a complaint and are just thankful that the children came out alive from the ordeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-heard-our-screams-echoing-before-blacking-out-say-victims-101635455569140.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Nine more test positive for Covid in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity recorded nine fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday. Chandigarh and Mohali reported four infections each while one case surfaced in Panchkula. Also, no death was recorded for the 23th consecutive day here.In Chandigarh, the infections surfaced in Sectors 33 and Manimajra whereas in Mohali, two cases were reported from Mohali city, while one each case surfaced from Kharar and Dera Bassi.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 69, with 29 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 27 in Mohali and 13 in Panchkula. Chandigarh has so far reported 65,335 positive cases, of which 64,486 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,812. Among these, 67,717 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,767 includes 30, 376 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nine-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101635455509205.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers enter Chandigarh University campus, hold protest||High drama was witnessed at Chandigarh University in Gharuan on Thursday when farmers came inside the premises suspecting that Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar are coming to the university to inaugurate the student satellite centre.Chancellor of the university Satnam Singh Sandhu said the event was scheduled, but it was cancelled on Wednesday after having a talk with farmer leaders over three contentious farm laws.As the protesters gathered outside the gate, the authorities of the university allowed them inside and they gheraoed permanent helipad in the university. The protesters raised slogans against the BJP and said they would never allow BJP leaders to enter the state unless the three farm laws were repealed.The chancellor, who was also present during the protest, said, “We are with the farmers and even organised a langar for them.”Tarsem Singh, one of the protesters, said, “It becomes imperative on the part of the Centre to recognise the pain, pangs, and depth of farmers’ emotions and sentiments to reach out to them to find a viable mechanism to redress their genuine grievances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-enter-chandigarh-university-campus-hold-protest-101635455089403.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||UT, DRDO officials discuss developing Chandigarh as hub of anti-drone technology||The city beautiful will be developed as a hub of anti-drone technology and regional cyber security centre. On Thursday, UT officials held a high-level meeting with senior representatives of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on the subject. The DRDO officials made a presentation on the prospects of drone attacks and how to proceed to deal with these. “Even though the city has no specific threat from the drone technology, the region has been facing dangers of the drone technology in the recent past. We want to lead the way in the region in developing anti-drone technologies,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal. The administration is also working on setting a cyber-security headquarters in Chandigarh to deal with any kind of cyber-crimes. “We are in touch with the ministry of home affairs on establishing the cyber security headquarters in Chandigarh,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ut-drdo-officials-discuss-developing-chandigarh-as-hub-of-anti-drone-technology-cyber-security-centre-101635454793677.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha jobs: 1 held for issuing fake interview letters||A 28-year-old Ambala resident has been arrested for allegedly issuing fake interview letters for jobs in Haryana Vidhan Sabha. Eight of his accomplices have also been identified. The accused has been identified as Jitender Singh, 28, who operates from an office in Sector-34, Chandigarh. He has been sent to eight-day police custody. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta said during the recent recruitment drive, the assembly secretariat busted the gang involved in issuing bogus interview letters. Gupta said a few months ago, the assembly secretariat had issued an advertisement inviting applications to fill posts of reporters (English and Hindi), junior scale stenographers, clerks, telephone attendant, telephone operator, Hindi typist, record restorer and watchmen. “We have arrested the main accused in the case while the other accused have been identified. He was operating from a rented accommodation and had even prepared fake stamps,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. Candidate spilled the beans The matter came to light when a person identified as Neeraj, a resident of Pinjore, approached the Vidhan Sabha secretariat with a fake interview letter for the post of reporter, on October 17. As there was no interview scheduled for Sunday, he was asked to deposit all his documents and asked to come the next day. It was then found that the interview letter had a fake stamp, signature and roll number. Gupta said the assembly secretariat staff then began a discreet inquiry in the matter. After Neeraj disclosed that the forged document was given by his relative, Jitender Singh, the latter was summoned to the Vidhan Sabha for inquiry. Modus operandi After issuing the fake interview letters to the candidates and charging them for it, the accused used to dissuade the candidates from appearing before the authorities on the grounds that the interview was deferred due to Covid-19 pandemic. The accused had prepared three fake identity cards and used to introduce himself either as a Haryana government employee or a PA of a minister. Police said the accused, Jatinder, along with his associates identified as Nikhil Kumar, 30, from Ambala Cantt, Rajiv, 32, from Ambala, Amit, 30, from Yamunanagar, Neeraj alias Shanki, 29, from Naraingarh, Rambir alias Karan Naraingarh, Jasbir, 30, from Ambala Cantt, Rahul from Nariangarh and Sudesh, 47, from Yamunanagar, prepared forged documents including appointment letters, ID cards, roll numbers etc from their office in Sector 34, Chandigarh, where they have sublet cabins in the said SCO. He further said they have taken money from different candidates, who were to appear in different exams i.e. HSSC, police and other departments. Haryana police personnel duped too It came to the fore that the accused had not only extorted money from gullible candidates for appointment in Vidhan Sabha but also in Haryana police. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said when Jitender was summoned for questioning, he admitted before the authorities that he had been generating fake documents. Gupta said the accused had created fake documents for recruitment in police also and 50-odd admit cards of competitive exams being conducted by Haryana Staff Selection Commission HSSC. Accused had multiple bank accounts The accused used to charge a hefty amount in lieu of getting a government job for the candidates. The accused has six bank accounts and used to charge anywhere between ₹5 lakh to ₹21 lakh. He is believed to have duped about 13 people so far and accumulated nearly ₹75 lakh, which has been recovered. Chandigarh police had registered an FIR on complaint of Sandeep Nandal Marshal, secretary, Haryana Vidhan Sabha, under sections 420, 467,468,471 and 120 B of IPC, in Sector-3 police on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vidhan-sabha-jobs-1-held-for-issuing-fake-interview-letters-101635454549112.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in: Civic body officials’ nonchalance to blame, say residents||The road cave-in at Deep Nagar, which sent three people plunging down a deep chasm, sent shock waves through the city with residents blaming the nonchalance of civic body officials who disregarded their complaints for the mishap. Area residents say the same portion of the road had caved-in when the road was being constructed around six months ago and a tractor-trailer had fallen in the pit. Residents suspect that the sewer lines had been damaged in the incident and the soil below the road had gradually eroded, which caused the cave-in. Sunil, who lives in the area, said, “We had flagged the issue when we noticed a depression on the road, but authorities and the contractor did not check the condition of the water and sewer pipes and reconstructed the road.” Some area residents say that water supply to a house adjoining the cave-in spot had been disrupted and when the owner of the house brought repairmen, they found the portion beneath the road hollow. The owner of the said house, Manjul, said that he had apprised the councillor and MC officials regarding the same, but repair was postponed to Thursday as the work could not be done during the night, but the mishap took place around 8am, before repair work could start. Area councillor Indu Thapar’s husband, Raju Thapar, said they had received no complaint from the residents and no MC employee had been deputed to repair the water supply line in the area. “There might have been some leakage in the sewer lines as it is decades old,” said Thapar.Show cause notices issued Municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has issued show cause notices to three officials of the bridges and road department for negligence. The notices have been issued to executive engineer Raman Kaushal, sub-divisional officer Sanjeev Kumar and junior engineer Ankush Sharma. The officials have been given two days to submit a reply.In the notices, Sabharwal cited two road cave-in incident, including the one which reported in Deep Nagar on Thursday and the other reported in Haibowal area on October 24 where a man and his son had a narrow escape after their car got stuck in a pit and overturned after the road caved in.He directed officials to properly barricade the area before carrying out repair works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-civic-body-officials-nonchalance-to-blame-say-residents-101635454189117.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Second dose of Covid vaccine overdue for 75,526 people in Chandigarh||Around 75,526 people, who have taken their first dose of Covid-19 vaccines from healthcare facilities in Chandigarh, have not turned up to take their second jab even after the completion of the recommended vaccine time gap, the UT health department said on Thursday. Of the total, 75,416 people have been administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine 16 weeks ago while 110 have taken Covaxin more than 6 weeks ago. Those with overdue vaccines include residents of Chandigarh and migrants who had got their first jab from city vaccination centres. According to the latest electoral list and Central government’s set target, around 8.4 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Thursday, 9,24,651 (110%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 5,38,381 are fully vaccinated. The vaccination drive in Chandigarh is gradually slowing down with the weekly vaccination average dipping as only 3,341 people, on average, were vaccinated with the first and second dose daily for the past one week. On Thursday, only 2,924 doses were administered to people. UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Since 75,526 people had taken the first dose of vaccine, this shows that they are not hesitant to get vaccinated. This is strange that even after recording no severe side effects post immunisation, people are not turning up to take their second dose. As per the Central government’s CoWIN app, these people have missed their second dose despite a reminder message, which is automatically sent to the beneficiary once they are eligible for the second dose.” The UT health department is now telephonically contacting these people and is conducting a special drive to vaccinate them at the earliest. “The UT administration has a sufficient number of vaccines, Covishield in government hospitals and Covaxin in private facilities, and there is no waiting time for getting the vaccination either for the first dose or for the second dose. Also, those who have moved out of Chandigarh after getting their first dose can take their next jab anywhere in the country,” Garg said, while requesting people to come forward for complete vaccination. ‘Second dose important for controlling transmission’ Meanwhile, Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “The first dose of vaccine helps in building antibodies, but without a booster dose, the antibodies are insufficient to fight the virus, especially with more deadly variants spreading fast. Even in the second wave of the pandemic, people who had just got their first dose were getting infected. The second dose is very important to lower the infection severity and to control the transmission.” “The beneficiaries get a message from the CoWIN app when they get eligible for the second dose and they must end hesitancy and come forward to take the jab. The complete vaccination will increase herd immunity in Chandigarh and will help in averting the third wave of the pandemic, especially when transmission can increase due to the festive season,” she said. GRAPHICS Target population above 18 years in Chandigarh: 8,43,000 Vaccination status Coverage as on Thursday Percentage 1 st dose 9,24,651 109.69% 2 nd dose 5,38,381 63.86%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-overdue-for-75-526-people-in-chandigarh-101635454130992.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Make education affordable to check immigration of youth: Pargat Singh||Minister for higher education, sports, youth affairs and NRI affairs Pargat Singh on Thursday said the state government would set up an education regulatory authority soon.Addressing students at Rayat Bahra University on the `Role of higher education’, he said there was a need for an academia-industry interface to ensure that students passing out from universities and other institutions could get employment when they pass out.He told mediapersons that education also needed to be made more affordable to check the immigration of youth.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chancellor, Rayat Bahra University, said with the state-of-the-art infrastructure and strong industry collaborations, the university attracted students not only from across the country but also abroad.Dr Parvinder Singh, vice-chancellor of the university, said the university had also tied up with other international companies like Google, Apple, IBM and TDS group for the introduction of new programmes which would give the students passing out in the new courses a cutting edge in the matter of placements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-education-affordable-to-check-immigration-of-youth-pargat-singh-101635454128828.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||North zone table tennis championships: Soham, Syndrela walk away with youth Under-13 titles||Soham Mukherjee and Syndrela Das of West Bengal lifted the youth Under-13 boys’ and girls’ titles, respectively, in the UTT National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championships at the Sports Complex at Sector 78 on Thursday. Soham defeated Pratiyush Bauva 4-0, while Syndrela struggled to beat Kavya Bhatt, also from Maharashtra, 4-3. If the boys final was a damp squib, the girls final was thrilling with the Bengal girl clinching it in the decider.As for the quarterfinals, the matches were more of a one-sided affair. The boys’ semifinals had some thrilling moments with the winners fighting hard to wrest the initiative. Soham Mukherjee dropped two games before subduing Debraj Bhattacharjee 4-2 in the all-Bengal first semi-final clash. In the second, Pratiyush from Maharashtra followed suit to beat Rupam Sardar of West Bengal 4-2.In the girls’ semifinals, Kavya Bhatt defeated Nandhini Reena 4-1, while Syndrela Das blanked out Ananya Muralidharan 4-0.At least three pre-quarterfinals went down to the wire and Cadet National champion from Tamil Nadu, Nikkhil Menon, became the first victim of unseeded Sarthak Arya of Delhi. Despite the top seed leading 2-1, the Delhi boy’s assertive play rendered Nikkhil searching for his counters.Sounav Barman from West Bengal, down 1-2, recovered to beat Swapnanil Dutta of Assam 3-2, while Debraj Bhattacharjee, also from Bengal, defeated Bhaskar Singh Sugra for a similar score.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/north-zone-table-tennis-championships-soham-syndrela-walk-away-with-youth-under-13-titles-101635454068878.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Drive against adulteration: Surprise check at sweets shops, dairies in Dhakoli; samples taken||Stepping up its drive against adulteration, the food safety team of the district health department conducted a surprise check at sweet shops and dairies at Dhakoli near Zirakpur and took four samples of various products. Food safety officer Ravinandan Goyal said the food safety team inspected the quality and durability of the sweets as well. He said during the current festive season, regular checks were being carried out to provide quality food items to the people. He said so far in October, 14 samples of milk and milk products had been taken in the Zirakpur area. Goel said during the checking, shopkeepers were instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and the health department to curb the spread of Covid. They were told to wear gloves and masks and not allow anyone to enter the shops without a mask. The shopkeepers were also briefed on the Food Safety Act. They were asked to sell pure and unadulterated items and also to pay special attention to cleanliness. He said checking was not meant to harass anyone, but to ensure that clean and quality food items were made available to the people. He said in case of non-packaged/loose sweets, container/tray holding sweets at the outlet for sale should display the “best before date” of the product which was made mandatory from October 1, 2020. Pointing out that under the Food Safety Act, it was mandatory for every FBO to sell pure, unadulterated and nutritious items, Goel said strict legal action would be taken if any shopkeeper violates this law. He also appealed to the people to be vigilant and not to compromise on quality while purchasing food items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drive-against-adulteration-surprise-check-at-sweets-shops-dairies-in-dhakoli-samples-taken-101635453948936.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA elections: Mritunjay Kumar elected president for second year in row||The group of Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura managed to retain all key posts in the elections of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) held on Thursday.While Kumar was again elected as the president of the PU teachers’ body, Supinder Kaur and Naura also retained vice-president and secretary posts, respectively. With this, the Rajesh Gill group, whom the Mritunjay-Naura group owes allegiance to, has registered a PUTA win for the fifth year in a row. The group is also backed by the Goyal group of PU senate and syndicate. Kumar secured 292 votes compared to his opponent Manu Sharma who managed to get 241 votes. Aged 44, Kumar is an assistant archivist at PU’s AC Joshi library. He has pursued his masters in history from the Centre for Historical Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and a PhD from Panjab University.Of the total 626 eligible votes, 567 (90%) were polled. Last year, 83% polling was registered over two days of polling. For the post of vice-president, with 319 votes, Supinder Kaur of department of laws, who is from Kumar’s group, emerged victorious against Ikreet Singh Bal, who managed 226 votes.Biochemistry department’s Naura, who was contesting for the post of secretary, got 285 votes against Kashmir Singh’s 268.With 300 votes, Sarvnarinder Kaur of biophysics department emerged victorious for the post of joint secretary against Shivani Sharma, who got 252 votes. Nitin Arora of the economics department defeated Sucha Singh to bag the treasurer’s post.Moreover, in all three executive groups, Mritunjay-Naura team managed to take the majority over the rival group of Manu Sharma and Kashmir Singh.Smooth pollingReturning officer Vijay Nagpal said, “Polling and counting went smoothly and there was no disruption by any person. However, till Wednesday evening, some voters had some doubts about the integrity of the returning officer and his team, but Thursday on noticing that how transparent my team worked, all their doubts were cleared and no objection of any kind was raised by any member.”Implementation of 7th Pay Commission top priority: Kumar Q Despite many attempts, the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission is still pending?Ans This is our top priority and we will clinch this. We are continuously pursuing the matter with the Punjab government and we are hopeful that we will achieve this soon.Q What will be your immediate priorities?Ans Apart from the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, the immediate release of retirement benefits and streamlining of the house allotment process for senior teachers will be our priorities. We will also ensure that counselling for house allotment is carried out as per university rules.Q The LTC facility is yet to be restored, what is your plan for it?Ans We have already initiated working on it and we have asked the university to restore this provision. We have also demanded that it should be extended by one year.Q Cases of ‘counting of past service’ are still in the pipeline?Ans Some cases have been cleared by the university panel, however, there are over 40 cases still pending. The teachers had sought more time for the submission of requisite documents. Whenever they will submit them, we will expedite the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puta-elections-mritunjay-kumar-elected-president-for-second-year-in-row-101635453888716.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||145 more dengue cases, one death in Chandigarh tricity area||As many as 145 more dengue cases surfaced in the tricity on Thursday, of which a whopping 85 infections came from Mohali. The district also reported one death on the day. Chandigarh reported 39 new cases while Panchkula had 21 fresh infections. Both jurisdictions, however, did not have any new fatalities. The UT has so far recorded 776 dengue cases, of which 692 surfaced in October. Three persons have also succumbed to the disease here. Of the fresh cases, 10 were reported from Daria, followed by seven from Manimajra, 6 from Mauli Jagran, and the rest from other rural and urban areas. In Mohali, the latest dengue victim is 60-year-old male, of Barampura village in Dera Bassi. He was admitted at Max Hospital, Mohali, where he later succumbed. Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 2,361 as against 471 in 2020. The district has so far recorded 30 dengue deaths, of which 28 took place this month. This is the highest toll since 2018 when eight people had died. In 2019 and 2020, only one fatality each was confirmed. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 540. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur had a meeting with officials of the Indian Medical Association in her office on Thursday. The civil surgeon directed the private hospitals to report any suspected or confirmed dengue cases to the health department immediately so that remedial measures can be taken without delay. “The deadly disease can be controlled with the help and cooperation of all stakeholders, especially private hospitals which also provide services for dengue checkup and treatment,” the civil surgeon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/145-more-dengue-cases-one-death-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101635453588884.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three get life-term for murdering rickshaw puller in Chandigarh||Three men were awarded life-term for the murder of a rickshaw puller near the roundabout of Industrial Area I and II in 2017. The trio has been identified as Kallu, Sunny and Kamlesh alias Rakesh Sharma -- all residents of Sanjay Colony. They had attacked the victim, Sunil Kumar of Sanjay Colony, with sticks on October 1, 2017, leading to his death nine days later.The court of additional district and sessions judge, Narender, while pronouncing the sentence said, “There can be no leniency in case of murder. There is a need for people to control their anger.” The court has also imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on each of the convicts. Victim had told family about attackThe victim’s wife, Sangeeta had told the police that her husband, who was a rickshaw-puller, used to park the three-wheeler at a stand near Tribune Chowk, along with the accused.On October 1, 2017, the accused assaulted him with sticks, following which he was rushed to ESI hospital in Ram Darbar from where he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh. Police could not record his statement at the time as he was not medically fit. On October 3, the family members forcibly took him home from the hospital. Sangeeta said that on the way back home, her husband had narrated the entire incident to the family and also named the accused. On October 6, Sunil’s condition deteriorated and the family had to rush him to a hospital in Panchkula, from where he was again referred to GMCH, Sector 32, where he succumbed to his injuries on October 10. The family was told that Sunil died of a cardiac arrest but his wife urged the police to look into it. On her complaint, a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Industrial Area police station. Eyewitness, medical reports helped nail accused Even though the defence counsel had tried to pin the blame on Sunil’s alcoholism, the statement of an eyewitness and the medical report helped prove the trio guilty. Sangeeta had told the police that her husband was a habitual drinker and his hands as well as legs used to tremble. The defence had claimed that the head injury may have been caused due to a fall. The prosecution then produced an eyewitness, who also used to park his rickshaw at the same stand. The eyewitness testified before the court that the trio had assaulted Sunil on October 1. Even the medical records stated that Sunil had died as a result of his head injury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-get-life-term-for-murdering-rickshaw-puller-in-chandigarh-101635453168922.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Diesel price hits a century in Mohali||In a first, diesel rates in Mohali crossed the ₹100-mark on Thursday, leaving residents and filling station owners fuming.What’s adding to their anger is the fact that Mohali’s petrol and diesel rates are the highest in the tricity. While diesel was available for ₹100.18 per litre in Mohali on Thursday, it cost ₹96.73 per litre in Chandigarh and ₹97 per litre in Panchkula.The rate of petrol in Mohali was ₹110.34 per litre while in Chandigarh, it cost ₹104.22 per litre and in Panchkula, it was ₹105 per litre.Citing the increasing cost of fuel and the difference in prices between Punjab and its adjoining states, Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association, Punjab, (PPDAP) had on October 22 announced that it would open petrol pumps only for a single shift for 15 days from November 7.Mohali district petroleum dealers’ association president Ashwinder Singh Mongia said: “Due to the disparity in fuel rates in the tricity, we have lost about 70% of our business. All dealers in Mohali whose pumps are located on the border with Chandigarh have been badly hit. When authorities can bring parity in liquor rates, why not in fuel rates?”What makes fuel so expensive in Mohali is the high rate of taxation in Punjab. The effective value added tax (VAT), including cess, on petrol in Mohali is 31.17%, while in Panchkula, it is 26.25%. In Chandigarh, VAT is 22.45% and there is no additional cess. On diesel, VAT in the three districts is 19.56% , 17.23% and 14.03%, respectively.Such high rates have hit the sales in Mohali drastically. According to figures available with the dealers association, diesel sales have dropped by 70% from 10,000 litres per pump per day in August 2017 to 3,000 litres in September this year.Gopal Krishan, an old car dealer in Mohali, said, “Since the rates of both petrol and diesel are at an all-time high in Mohali, we have been going to Chandigarh to fuel up our vehicles. But the authorities concerned should bring parity in the fuel rates across tricity.”Last year, a businessman who owned three petrol pumps in Mohali had ended his life, citing huge losses being suffered due to the substantial difference in fuel rates. In a letter to the Punjab governor, he had stated that non-revision of VAT in Chandigarh had robbed him of 80% of his business as his pumps were situated on the border.The dealers are also resentful of Chandigarh pumps for putting up hoardings to advertise the cheaper rates. Stating that such boards are illegal, they question why the UT administration has not acted against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diesel-price-hits-a-century-in-mohali-101635452748634.html
29-10-2021||Other||Only Modi or Shah can resolve stalemate over farm laws: SKM leader Rajewal||Patiala Prominent Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said on Thursday that any solution to the stalemate over the contentious farm laws of the Centre can be resolved only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah were willing to do so. “All other Union ministers and bureaucrats are rubber stamps and they do not have any power to take decisions on farmers’ issues,” Rajewal added, at a seminar on the three contentious farm laws and the agrarian crisis in Punjab at Punjabi University on Thursday. Punjab Khet Majdoor Union general secretary Lachhman Singh Sewewala said farm labourers would bear the brunt if the laws were implemented. Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said the Centre was forcing those agricultural acts and reforms, which had been completely rejected and failed globally, on all Indians. “We all failed as a society in understanding the farmer’s plight. Farmers are sitting at borders fighting for not only themselves but for us too,” Sharma said, adding that instead of corporatisation and privatisation of agriculture, co-operative model was far more beneficial. Noted economist Sucha Singh Gill seconded views of Sharma on co-operative model of agriculture and farming needed to be turned into a financially viable and profitable enterprise. State president of BKU (Ugrahan) Joginder Singh said the ongoing protest was not the outcome of any agriculture crisis or economic crisis, but a political crisis in the country. “I advise researchers and experts to fight for the farmers on the ground, carrying fact-based research, with them,” he added. Punjabi University vice-chancellor Arvind and Anupama, coordinator of the seminar, also addressed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-modi-or-shah-can-resolve-stalemate-over-farm-laws-skm-leader-rajewal-101635451849070.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh terminates services of protesting NHM workers||The UT health department terminated the services of around 180 National Health Mission (NHM) employees after they missed their duties on Thursday to protest against the revised working conditions offered against a salary hike, at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.Around 500 NHM employees, working under the UT health department as doctors, paramedical staff, managerial employees, nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers, have been working on salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013. Earlier in August, over 300 NHM workers went on an indefinite leave for 12 days to press for equal wages for equal work. Following the continuous protest, the UT administration had given a written assurance of salary hike which read: “Finance department has no objection in meeting the additional expenditure of ₹3.92 crore annually to pay salaries at par with DC rate to NHM workers.”However, two months after the written assurance, the UT health department had on October 26, asked the NHM employees to fill a consent form with revised terms and conditions. As per the new conditions, if NHM employees opt for salaries as per DC rate, their working hours and leaves will be revised. But, if they don’t follow the revised guidelines, (which are being followed by every staff member getting DC rate salaries), they will have to continue with the same salaries.Patient care hitDue to non-availability of NHM workers at the government health and wellness centres, especially in rural areas, the general out-patient department services and Covid vaccination drives were hit. Patient care services were also hit at GMSH-16, and the civil hospitals in Sector 22, 45 and Manimajra.In a notice, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The NHM staff is insisting on pay equal but don’t want to work for eight hours, as applicable to DC rate staff, and also wants to avail the leaves and benefits applicable under NHM which is not available in case of DC rate staff. The department cannot allow such staff to risk the life of patients, especially when hospitals are full of Covid-19, dengue and malaria patients. To avoid such frequent incidents of indiscipline, we need to deal with it strictly.”Garg said, “The NHM staff, who have not reported for duty on Thursday, are not allowed to join duties again and a process will be initiated to terminate his/her contractual appointment with immediate effect. They will not be allowed to enter the premises of any health facility and in case of any unauthorised entry, appropriate action will be taken as per the law.”“The existing staff should be deputed in shifts and extra duty to overcome the staff shortage. The outsourcing agency is requested to provide staff to substitute the protesting NHM staff. During the process, preference may be given to those 81 outsourced employees who were recruited during the second wave of Covid and have been disengaged recently,” he further ordered.‘Staff to continue strike on Friday’Amit Kumar, general secretary of NHM union, said, “The UT administration has betrayed the health staff. They had assured us of a salary hike at par with DC rates but now, they are revising our working conditions. We have only asked those NHM workers to protest who are not willing to agree to UT’s move. Of the 500 employees, only 180 protested on Thursday. However, we will continue our protest on Friday as this immediate termination is unethical.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-terminates-services-of-protesting-nhm-workers-101635451492401.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrests three men for snatchings, vehicle lifting||The CIA staff -1 arrested two snatchers and recovered 13 mobile phones and a stolen motorcycle from their possession.The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh alias Deepu, 29, and Harpreet Singh alias Lala, 28, both residents of Shimlapuri. Based on information provided by them, police arrested Harpreet Singh alias Happy, 26, of Shimlapuri, for buying stolen mobile phones from them. Sub-inspector Harminder Singh, in-charge at CIA staff 1, said Gupreet and Lala used to snatch mobile phones from residents, especially migrant labourers, and sold them to Happy.The police arrested Gurpreet and Lala in Daba and seized their motorcycle, which had a fake number plate and a fake registration certificate. Based on information provided by them, they nabbed Happy.Gupreet and Lala are already facing several cases of snatchings registered against them at different police stations and both of them were out on bail. However, no previous criminal record of Happy was found.A case under Sections 379B, 411, 467, 468, 471 and 473 of Indian Penal Code was registered against them.Hotel employee steals ₹14,000An employee of a hotel has decamped with ₹14,000 in cash and bills. The Division Number 5 police have lodged an FIR against the accused identified as Rahul of Pathankot.The FIR has been lodged based the statement of the owner of the hotel, Paramjit Singh of New Model Town.He stated that he had hired Rahul three months ago and he had left the job without informing him. After he left, Paramjit found the cash and some bills were missing.ASI Sukhjinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR has been lodged against the accused under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code and a hunt is on for his arrest.He added that police are investigating to know if the hotel owner got the police verification of his employees.It is the second such case in the past three days when an employee had stolen cash from his employer. On October 25, a hosiery worker had decamped with ₹26 lakh in cash of his employer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrests-three-men-for-snatchings-vehicle-lifting-101635451491146.html
29-10-2021||Other||Hero, Yamaha join hands to make E-cycle drive units||Ludhiana Hero Motors and Yamaha Motor Co (Japan) have entered into an agreement to create a global E-Cycle (electric) Drive Unit company at the Hero E-Cycle Valley, Dhanansu, in the district. The manufacturing facility of the joint venture will be set at the E-Cycle Valley, with production expected to start by November 2022; the unit will ultimately have the capacity of 1 million drive units, also known as power assist systems, that will be used to power the cycles. In addition to Hero and Yamaha branded E-Cycles, the joint venture will use the OEM (original equipment manufacturer) networks of Hero and Yamaha for sale in global markets. The Boards of Directors of both companies have approved the transaction under which a manufacturing unit will be setup in India to manufacture E-Cycle drive motors for the global markets. The joint venture is the next step in the strategic alliance forged between Hero and Yamaha in September 2019 to work together in the E-Cycle product segment, said Pankaj Munjal, chairman and managing director, Hero Motors Company. “This joint venture is a major component of our ambition to be the first fully integrated player globally in the E-Cycles segment and adds strongly to our initiatives like expansion to Europe through Hero International and setting up of a world-class industrial park in Hi-Tech Cycle Valley, Punjab,” added Munjal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hero-yamaha-join-hands-to-make-e-cycle-drive-units-101635451489331.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ashok Prashar joins AAP ahead of Punjab assembly polls||In a political development from the Ludhiana central constituency ahead of the assembly elections, senior Congress leader and former general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), Ashok (Pappi) Prashar, joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday. AAP Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh inducted Prashar into the party fold in Chandigarh.It has been learnt that Prashar is eyeing a party ticket for the upcoming elections and as the central constituency is represented by Congress MLA Surinder Dawar, Prashar made the decision to join AAP. It is seen as a setback for Congress, as Prashar is a veteran party leader and had also contested 2012 assembly elections from Ludhiana south constituency on party ticket. Prashar said he has left the Congress party as the senior leadership has been ignoring the workers for a long time.Earlier too, Pappi and his brother, five time councillor Rakesh Prashar ,had joined AAP in 2016, but returned to Congress ahead of assembly elections in 2017. While Pappi has now joined AAP again, Rakesh is still with the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ashok-prashar-joins-aap-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-polls-101635451188994.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Suvidha camps in Ludhiana: 5,530 apply for Punjab govt’s welfare schemes||The first day of the suvidha camps being organised by the district administration in every sub-division of the district received a good response on Thursday as 5,530 people applied to avail of benefits under several welfare schemes of the Punjab Government. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said these camps which will continue on Friday also and are being held to help people avail benefits of 19 schemes at their doorsteps. He added that 1,743 applications were received from Payal, 1,316 from Samrala, 879 from Jagraon, 759 from Ludhiana West, 460 applications from Raikot, 340 from Ludhiana East and 86 from Khanna. He said that only the active participation of residents can make this initiative a mega success and termed the camps a game-changer. The DC added that the camps will ensure every beneficiary avails the services of the schemes at the grassroots level including five-marla plots for landless citizens, pension scheme (old age, widow, dependent etc) and MGNREGA job cards. Sharma said it is an opportunity for the people to benefit from several schemes under one roof without needing to visit different offices. He added that these camps will be a boon for the underprivileged sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suvidha-camps-in-ludhiana-5-530-apply-to-for-punjab-govt-s-welfare-schemes-101635451008806.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal promises dedicated farm policy to boost agri sector in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday promised a dedicated farm policy to boost the agriculture sector in Punjab.At the “Kisan naal Kejriwal’ programme held at a resort in Mansa, the AAP supremo said it is a cause of concern that the respective governments failed to address a serious problem like farmer suicide.“The AAP is a votary to grant compensation on the basis of actual cost incurred in a particular crop,” he said, referring to the damage to kharif crops of paddy and cotton due to recent hailstorm and pink bollworm attack.Kejriwal flayed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for his government’s failure in deciding compensation to farmers.“Channi visited the affected farmers in Bathinda (on September 26) but reduced it to a photo event as no one has got any assistance from the government. The AAP government in Delhi has been disbursing ₹20,000 per acre for crop losses caused by natural calamities. If voted power in Punjab, we will come with a compensation policy in accordance with the economical investment made by growers and farm labourers,” said Kejriwal.It was Kejriwal’s first visit to the south Malwa region ahead of the Punjab assembly elections.At his interactive session, only select persons were allowed. Media was kept away from the political programme. On the occasion, the Delhi CM said the stubble management has the potential of employment generation in Punjab. “Farmer cooperatives would be formed to tap crop residue-to-energy and other similar ventures. It would eliminate the burden of residue management on farmers and provide additional income. I urge farmers not to take extreme step due to crop loss as our party will table a comprehensive farm policy,” he said.SKM holds protestA group of farmers under the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a protest near the venue. They flayed Kejriwal for interacting with a select audience and said the party leadership did not want to address the grievances of the agrarian community.Kejriwal holds meeting with Mann, Cheema SANGRUR: Earlier in the day, Kejriwal reached Sangrur and held a closed-door meeting with Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and some party MLAs at Mann’s residence.Kejriwal reached the city railway station at 11am and moved to Mansa after having lunch with Mann’s family.“I have come to Punjab and now going to Mansa to meet farmers. I met Bhagwant Mann’s mother, sister and brother-in-law. We have had makki ki roti and sarson ka saag,” said Kejriwal, who refused to take more questions from the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-promises-dedicated-farm-policy-to-boost-agri-sector-in-punjab-101635450708526.html
29-10-2021||Other||Retired officers appeal to Punjab to speed up paddy procurement||Chandigarh Retired IAS, PCS and army officers on Thursday appealed to the Punjab government to quicken the pace of paddy procurement. The officers, who met under the banner of Kirti Kisan Forum, expressed solidarity with the farmers agitating for the repeal of the farm laws and hoped that the families of these farmers who came to the mandis with their produce should not be harassed. They also requested the chief minister to personally monitor the timely purchase and quick payment for the paddy. Noting that untimely rain has played havoc with the produce lying in mandis, they appealed that some relaxation in the moisture content should be obtained from the central government. The forum also requested the government to release appropriate compensation for the cotton crop losses due to the attack of the Pink Bollworm. The meeting was co-chaired by GPS Sahi and RI Singh. Those present included DS Bains, Kulbir Sidhu, Iqbal Sidhu, GK Singh, Prithi Chand, Balwinder Multani and Col MS Bajwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-officers-appeal-to-punjab-to-speed-up-paddy-procurement-101635450588544.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: Punjab Police can interrogate dera chief in Rohtak jail, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday told Punjab Police to grill Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a 2015 sacrilege case in Rohtak jail itself, if it so desired. The court was hearing an anticipatory bail plea from Ram Rahim in a sacrilege case.On Monday, a Faridkot court had issued production warrants against the dera head. He was summoned in the sacrilege case registered on June 2, 2015, at Bajakhana police station in Faridkot for October 29.During the hearing, state’s advocate general APS Deol had argued that the dera head has emerged as a main conspirator and his custodial interrogation was required. He had also assured that adequate security arrangements would be made to bring him to Faridkot. The government had even submitted that it could even arrange a chopper in view of the law and order issue surrounding him.However, the court did not agree and after the hearing, which lasted till late evening, said that the police can interrogate him in Rohtak jail, if required. The detailed order is awaited.Earlier, appearing for Ram Rahim, senior advocate Vinod Ghai told the court that state’s hurry in bringing him to Punjab is unexplained as the FIR in question was lodged in 2015. The statement, which is being cited as basis for his custodial interrogation, was also obtained in July 2020, he had told court adding that custodial interrogation was not required.He had also argued that the Punjab Police want to arrest him, for which a court order has been obtained seeking his presence. The court could not have ordered production of an accused to facilitate arrest by an investigating agency, he told court.The apprehension about law and order situation, if he is brought to Punjab, was also brought before the court.A total of 36 people were killed in Panchkula alone in the violence reported after dera chief’s conviction on August 25, 2017 in two rape cases.The dera head is lodged in Sunaria jail of Rohtak since August 25, 2017. In 2017, he was awarded 20-year jail term for the rape of two disciples. Subsequently, he has been convicted in murder cases of a journalist, Ram Chander Chhatrapati and Ranjit Singh, a former dera manager, in which life sentence has been awarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-case-punjab-police-can-interrogate-dera-chief-in-rohtak-jail-says-hc-101635450528487.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Paddy procurement gaining momentum; 40% crop procured||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday said that paddy procurement at grain markets across the district has gained momentum, with the administration having procured 6,88,395 metric tonnes of the crop, which is nearly 40% of the expected arrival.Presiding over a meeting here at his office, the DC said that 7,11,500 metric tonnes of paddy arrived at grain markets this year, against the expected 17.53 lakh metric tonnes.Sharma added that payment worth ₹1,101.05 crore has been made to the farmers and 89% of the procured paddy has also been lifted from the markets.The DC said that every agency must ensure that its quota of grains has been lifted as soon as it arrives at markets. He said that the district administration is committed to ensure that farmers do not face any issues while selling their harvest at mandis across the district. He appealed to the farmers to bring moisture free grains to the market to avoid any inconvenience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-paddy-procurement-gaining-momentum-40-crop-procured-101635450468805.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Strokes are preventable and treatable, says experts from CMCH||Timely recognition of stroke symptoms is crucial for its effective treatment through methods like clot busting drug injection and removal of clot using stent retriever, said Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian on Thursday. He is the principal of Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana, president of Indian Stroke Association and vice-president of World Stroke Organisation.He was addressing a press conference at CMC on Thursday ahead of World Stroke Day. Dr Pandian added that In India, 18 lakh cases of stroke are reported every year and about 22% to 42% of the patients die within a month. Dr Rajeswar, associate professor of neurology; said there are two types of strokes-- ischemic, when there is a blockage to one of the brain arteries, and rupture and leakage of blood from the artery called brain hemorrhage.Stroke signs and symptoms can be recognized using the following acronym: FAST- F- drooping of one side of face, A-arm weakness, S-sudden trouble speaking and T- time to reach a stroke ready hospital, said Dr Vivek Agarwal, assistant professor at division of neurointervention. He added that early treatment is of paramount importance as it can reduce the disability associated with stroke. “Recent advances in stroke treatments have introduced newer treatments like removal of the clots that block the blood supply to the brain by using special stents called clot retrievals. These treatments are now only available at the neuro DSA lab of CMCH,” he added.The risk factors for stroke are high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, smoking, irregular heart rhythm, excess alcohol intake, obesity, lack of physical activity and unhealthy diet, said Dr Vineet Jaison, associate professor of neurology. Stroke is preventable in 80% cases and screening for high blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol annually is important. Control of all risk factors with regular exercise and a healthy diet can lead to prevention of stroke, said Dr Pandian. Dr. William Bhatti, director of CMC, appreciated the efforts of the neurology department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/strokes-are-preventable-and-treatable-says-experts-from-cmch-101635450356892.html
29-10-2021||Other||Two pastors among 3 booked for hurting religious sentiments in Batala||Batala Police have booked three persons, including two pastors, for allegedly outraging religious feelings after a truck carrying more than 53,000 Bibles overturned on the Amritsar Road in Batala on Wednesday late evening. Police said the truck had started from Jammu and was to be unloaded at Khanna Paper Mill in Amritsar. The accused are Jacob John, pastor of Prathna Bhawan Church in Pathankot; Stephen, pastor of Chamatkar Church in Amritsar; and Anik, a representative of Neel Kamal Enterprises, a Jammu-based firm. Police added that preliminary investigation showed that the holy books had been sold to a Jammu firm, Neel Kamal Enterprises, as scrap.Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “We have found some material containing information about the firm on the holy books. We have registered a case under Sections 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs.) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.”He added that they have sought permission from the department to conduct raids outside the state to nab the accused. The case has been registered on a complaint from Peter Masih of Batala. Masih said, “The truck driver is illiterate, but has confessed that the books were to be unloaded at the Khanna Paper Mill. Police should investigate the mill’s role. The book’s covers were torn and they were sold at ₹3.5 lakh. This might be a big scandal and the police should investigate the matter thoroughly.”Police have preserved the recovered holy books. The SSP said the books will respectfully handed over to Christian community leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-pastors-among-3-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-in-batala-101635450349714.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi announces ₹10 crore for development of Fatehgarh Sahib||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday announced ₹10 crore for the overall development of the constituency. The CM said that on the demand of local MLA and Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra, the road from Fatehgarh Sahib to Morinda would be widened within a month and named Mata Gujri Marg.Addressing a gathering, the Channi said that no mafia whether sand, cable or transport would be tolerated in the state and emphasis would be to provide transparent and hassle-free governance to the people of Punjab. Earlier, the CM paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sri Fatehgarh Sahib. He was also honoured with a “siropa” (robe of honour) at the information office.Later, Channi dedicated to the public Mehtabi Bagh situated inside the Aam Khas Bagh in Sirhind. The Mehtabi Bagh has been renovated as part of the conservation project of the Aam Khaas Bagh at a cost of ₹6.5 crore. The CM also laid the foundation stone of the sub-divisional complex near Ambedkar Bhawan at a cost of ₹7 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-announces-rs-10-crore-for-development-of-fatehgarh-sahib-101635450348443.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU alumnus appointed director general of National Productivity Council||Navinder Kumar Chanji, an alumnus from the 1980-batch of the college of agricultural engineering and technology, Punjab Agricultural University, has been appointed director-general of the National Productivity Council, Union ministry of commerce and industry. Chanji started his journey in the National Productivity Council (NPC) in 1987 and is the first alumnus from COAET and PAU to occupy this prestigious position. NPC undertakes research in the area of productivity and has been providing consultancy and training services in areas like industrial engineering, agri-business, economic services, quality management and human resources management to government, public and private sector organisations.Ashok Kumar, dean of the college and chief patron of the alumni association, congratulated Chanji on achieving this prestigious position. Kumar said that Chanji has been contributing to the mission of productivity enhancement of agriculture and industries for more than three decades in various capacities. Satish Kumar Gupta, president of the alumni association, said this is a proud moment for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-alumnus-appointed-director-general-of-national-productivity-council-101635450174045.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks Punjab’s response over ‘illegal’ takeover of Patti gurdwara||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Punjab government on a plea seeking direction for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into alleged illegal takeover of a Patti gurdwara in Tarn Taran by armed men on October 16 night.The plea also demands deployment of paramilitary forces to flush out the armed men who have allegedly taken over the possession of Gurdwara Bhath Sahib in Patti. These men are not even allowing the petitioner to meet his wife, minor children and other sewadars of the gurdwara, who have been detained on the premises in connivance with the police, according to a plea by Narbir Singh, who said he was the chief sewadar at the Gurdwara since 2019.The plea says the gurdwara is of immense historic significance as during the lifetime of 6th Guru Hargobind Singh, his lieutenant took refuge at this place.On the night of October 16, 15-20 armed men entered the gurdwara. They are with dubious and criminal antecedents. Since then his family and some sewadars are captive, the plea alleges, adding that the illegal act was aided by the local police. The petitioner had also submitted CCTV footage of the night when incident took place.“The case reflects the state of complete anarchy in Punjab, wherein the unholy nexus between dreaded criminals and law enforcement agencies is writ large,” the plea claims, adding that the Patti assembly segment shares International Border with Pakistan. It is not only a matter of clandestine taking over of the gurdwara with the aid of the police, but could also be of great national security implications, the plea further claims.The high court has sought response by November 10 and asked the authorities that it be ensured that basic amenities be provided to the family members of the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-punjab-s-response-over-illegal-takeover-of-patti-gurdwara-101635450168471.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 31 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh Punjab on Thursday reported 31 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,02,320, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related fatality, the death toll stood at 16,556.The positivity rate of the state was 0.09 % on Thursday, the bulletin said. There are 250 active cases in the state. Among fresh cases, eight were reported from Pathankot and four each from Amritsar and Bathinda. With 27 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,514, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-31-fresh-covid-cases-101635450048408.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Youth dies of suicide in Haryana’s Karnal, family says was assaulted by cops||An 18-year-old youth has allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at Mangal Colony in Karnal.Family of the deceased alleged that he was disturbed as his bike was challaned for ₹13,000 on Wednesday and he was abused and assaulted by cops, following which he took the extreme step.They said he had consumed some poisonous substance on Wednesday. He was taken to the hospital where he died while undergoing treatment.On Thursday, the family held a protest outside the mortuary of Kalpana Chawla Medical College and demanded action against the police personnel responsible.Following the protest, Karnal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhilaksh Joshi approached the protesters and assured them of a fair investigation into the matter.He said the postmortem has been conducted by a board of doctors and statements of the deceased’s family members are being recorded for further action on their complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-dies-of-suicide-in-haryana-s-karnal-family-says-was-assaulted-by-cops-101635449928546.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal cases against MPs, MLAs: HC seeks fresh status reports on investigation||The high court has sought fresh status reports from Punjab and Haryana police on the status of probes in criminal cases against MPs and MLAs.The high court bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Alka Sarin has directed Punjab Police to file a fresh status report about 42 cases under investigation and further the progress reports in 32 cases in which challans have been filed. Details have been also sought about the eight cases wherein cancellation/untraced reports have been presented.The case was taken up for the first time by this bench after the transfer of justice Rajan Gupta. The court was hearing a plea in which it is monitoring probe in criminal cases against lawmakers upon orders from the apex court since February 2021. The court has also asked Haryana to file an affidavit giving the details of those 16 cases where investigation is pending and asked as to why probe has not been completed.The court also directed the CBI to file an affidavit detailing about proceedings initiated to seek vacation of stay ordered by different courts in the cases being probed by it.Not impressed: Court on probe into rape case against BainsThe court was perturbed over the pace of investigation in a rape case against Ludhiana MLA Simarjit Bains. “Frankly, we are not impressed. However, without saying anything much we do not deem it appropriate to grant this request, but in the interest of justice adjourn the matter with the expectation that by then final report will be submitted,” the court said posting the matter for hearing on November 9.The court was responding to an application filed by Punjab Police seeking extension of time to submit probe report in this case. In September, the court had ordered that probe be completed within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-hc-seeks-fresh-status-reports-on-investigation-101635449868671.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab SIT fails to find any leads in ‘conspiracy’ behind Singhu lynching||It has been nine days since Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe an alleged conspiracy and circumstances in which Lakhbir Singh of Cheema Kalan village went to the Singhu border, it has failed to get find “any concrete” evidence in the case.The SIT has not even applied for the production warrant of key accused Nihang Sarabjit Singh Singh who had surrendered before the Haryana Police for brutally killing Lakhbir Singh on October 15 at Singhu border. According to some media reports, Sarabjit is allegedly behind taking Lakhbir from Cheema village to the Singhu border.Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota constituted the SIT under the chairmanship of Varinder Kumar, additional director general of police (ADGP)-cum-director bureau of investigation (BOI), Punjab. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG-Ferozepur) Inderbir Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harvinder Singh Virk are members of the team. The team was formed after victim Lakhbir Singh’s sister Raj Kaur alleged that her brother was “allured by some unknown persons and taken to Singhu border”. Talking to HT over phone, the ADGP said so far they have not found “any concrete” evidence to establish who were behind sending Lakhbir to the Singhu border. “It seems he (Lakhbir) went there with someone, most probably, but we can’t make any concrete comment in this regard.” When asked how much time it will take to conclude the probe, he said: “It can take time as it is a complicated puzzle.”Sarabjit is a member of Baba Aman Singh’s Nihang sect, who is in controversy ever since his pictures with Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar went viral. In the same pictures is Gurmeet Singh Pinky, former controversial Punjab Police cop. Sarabjit is so far, out of the SIT radar. When asked if the SIT has applied for Sarabjit’s production warrant, the ADGP said: “We haven’t done anything in this regard. For now, we are following some other leads.” It was also alleged by some anonymous people of Cheema village in some media reports that they had seen Sarabjit in Dhan Dhan Baba Sheikh Brahm Peer Ji Gaushala (cowshed) situated on the village outskirts. The police had also taken into their possession the cowshed’s CCTV footage.“No arrest has been made in the case, but we rounded up several people for questioning,” the ADGP said, adding “We have not found anything suspicious in the CCTV footage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sit-fails-to-find-any-leads-in-conspiracy-behind-singhu-lynching-101635449749688.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: SCA beats Crystal Club Jr by nine wickets||An outstanding all-round performance by Shivam Verma yielded an easy victory for SC Academy as they defeated Crystal Club (junior) by nine wickets on Thursday in a 40 over match during the GNSA Under-14 Cricket Tournament in Jassian, Ludhiana.Crystal Club batted first and were bowled out for 74 in 31.5 overs. Verma took three wickets in his 6.5 over spell and conceded 22 runs. Ramandeep Singh also took two wickets in his six over spell and conceded just 12 runs.Hemant Verma was the top scorer for Crystal Club with 38 runs in nine deliveries.Chasing an easy target, Shivam, who opened the innings with Rinku Verma, got off to a blistering start and remained not out for 44 runs in just 23 deliveries and led his team to victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-sca-beats-crystal-club-jr-by-nine-wickets-101635449748327.html
29-10-2021||Other||BJP launches Punjab poll campaign, promises to free state of drug, sand mafias||Chandigarh The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday launched its campaign for 2022 state assembly polls in Punjab with the ‘Nava Punjab, BJP De Naal’ (New Punjab is with the BJP) slogan, promising to eradicate drug and sand mafias. Before launch, a ‘paath’ (recitation) of the Sukhmani Sahib was held at the party’s state headquarters in the city to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur. Union cabinet minister for jal shakti and election in-charge of the party for Punjab, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, launched the campaign. In an exercise, largely seen as perception management, the BJP got a large number of its Sikh leaders to attend the launch. Later, the party machinery ensured that pictures of these leaders were widely circulated to indicate its presence in the Sikh community. For almost a year, however, there has been a huge backlash, on the ground, against the party from the community for the revocation of farm laws.Addressing a press conference later, Shekhawat said the BJP will give citizens a drug-free and mining mafia free Punjab. “The BJP will contest on all 117 assembly seats. Punjabis are disgruntled with the miserable performance of the Akalis, the Congress and the AAP and these parties will be routed,” the Union minister said. On the farm stir, he said, “Eleven rounds of talks have been held with the farm unions and the government took the extra step of stalling the laws for 18 months. Our initiative to address the issue can never be doubted. Our doors are always open.” He evaded comment on the party’s response if the farm unions escalated their stir, and the possibility of any alliance with former chief minister Capt Amarinder’s new party, when launched. ‘MODI GOVT HAS ACHIEVED A LOT FOR PUNJAB’He added that ensuring justice for 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims through a SIT; the abolition of a blacklist of Sikhs allowing them to reconnect to families; the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor; the removal of GST on items meant for langar at the Golden Temple; Bathinda AIIMS and the Amritsar IIM as achievements of the Modi government for Punjab and the Sikh community. On the Centre’s decision to increase the territorial jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab, he said, “Few political parties are saying that it is an attack on our federal structure. If the earlier jurisdiction of 15km was not an attack on the federal structure, how is 45km an attack?” He added that national security can never be compromised, with the Centre aware of the challenges of drug smuggling and drones carrying weapons that the border state faced. The co-incharges for Punjab polls Union urban development and petroleum minister, Hardeep Singh Puri; Union minister of state for foreign affairs, Meenakshi Lekhi, and Lok Sabha MP from Gujarat, Vinod Chawra, were also present. Puri said the PM has special affection and love for Punjab, particularly for the Sikh community. Later, Puri and Shekhawat held meetings with constituency in-charges. BJP’s Punjab affairs in-charge Dushyant Gautam; national general secretary Tarun Chugh; Union minister of state and Hoshiarpur MP Som Parkash and National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman Vijay Sampla also attended the launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-launches-punjab-poll-campaign-promises-to-free-state-of-drug-sand-mafias-101635449689810.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two-day Africa-Haryana Conclave kicks off||Aimed at strengthening bilateral trade and economic ties, the two-day Africa-Haryana Conclave which started on Thursday evening will feature diplomats from 12 African nations.An official spokesperson said the focus of the conference is to boost bilateral trade and connectivity between the two regions.Titled ‘Transforming Haryana through a Go Global Approach’, the event is being organised by the foreign cooperation department of Haryana in consultation with the Union ministry of external affairs.Diplomats from 12 African nations, including Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania, Madagascar, Nigeria, Eritrea, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Senegal, Kenya, Ethiopia, and Ghana will be a part of the event.The spokesperson said the conclave is also aimed to create a framework and opportunities to collaborate and increase people-to-people engagement between the two regions.On the first day of the conclave, the Haryana government hosted a cultural night in Panchkula. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will address the delegates on Friday.Brainstorming sessions to discuss the potential for collaboration in the areas of agriculture, skill development, education, information technology, agro-based food processing, dairy, sports, cultural exchange, and mutual interests will also be held on Friday.The conclave will also seek a discussion on promoting cultural exchange and increasing people-to-people engagement between the two regions.The spokesperson added that Haryana shares many similarities with the African continent as both regions enjoy a dominant agrarian base, young demographic and large consumer market.“These synergies provide a strong foundation for building long-lasting economic trade and bilateral ties between Haryana and Africa,” the spokesperson said, adding, “This conclave will play a pivotal role in formulating country-wise strategies to promote trade and investment with the existing and potential trade partners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twoday-africa-haryana-conclave-kicks-off-101635449688611.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 Jalandhar cops suspended for laxity on Randhawa’s orders||Three police personnel posted at the Phillaur checkpoint in Jalandhar district were placed under suspension on Thursday for negligence on the orders of Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio. Jalandhar (rural) senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh suspended the three officials after Randhawa conducted a surprise check to ascertain the ground situation with regard to the security at nakas (checkpoints) on GT Road and traffic management at congested spots on the highway. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered against ASIs Jaswant Singh, Balwinder Singh and constable Kuljit Singh. A senior police official requesting anonymity said that when Randhawa crossed the Phillaur hi-tech checkpoint, he found no police personnel present. He stopped the convoy and found that the policemen were in a room near the checkpoint. When questioned, they failed to come up with a satisfactory explanation. Randhawa said that in view of the festive season, police personnel should be vigilant and also ensure efficient traffic management. Traffic in-charge suspended in GobindgarhEarlier, Randhawa conducted a surprise check at a naka in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Following, the minister’s orders, Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Sandeep Goyal suspended ASI Gurmeet Singh, posted as traffic in-charge at Gobindgarh, and ordered a departmental inquiry against him. There was a traffic jam on the GT Road in Gobindgarh and the traffic in-charge was not present on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-jalandhar-cops-suspended-for-laxity-on-randhawa-s-orders-101635449568589.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Live-in relationships part of life: Allahabad high court||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has said that live-in relationships had become part and parcel of life and were required to be viewed through the lens of personal autonomy rather than the notions of social morality. The Bench of justices Pritinker Diwaker and Ashutosh Srivastava made the observation while disposing of petitions filed by two interfaith live-in couples. The two couples filed separate petitions, alleging that the families of the girls were interfering in their day-to-day life. One petition was filed by Shayara Khatun and her partner of Kushi Nagar (both major and in live-in-relationship for the past more than two years) and another by Zeenat Parveen and her partner of Meerut (both major and in a live-in relationship for past one year). It was also stated that they approached the concerned police authorities, but did not get any help and consequently, their life and liberty were undermined. The court at the outset underscored that the right to life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India was liable to be protected at all costs and further went on to observe thus: “Live-in-relationships have become part and parcel of life and stand approved by the Hon’ble Apex Court. Live-in relationship is required to be viewed through the lens of personal autonomy arising out of the right to live guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, rather than notions of social morality.” The court said that the police authorities were obligated to protect the rights of the petitioners. Therefore, the court ordered that in the event the petitioners approached the police authorities concerned, complaining of any threat to their life and liberty, the police shall perform duties as expected under law. The order was given on October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/livein-relationships-part-of-life-allahabad-high-court-101635449449557.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt’s meeting with Amit Shah on farmers’ stir postponed||ChandigarhFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers’ agitation was postponed. The two-time former CM, who was scheduled to meet the Union home minister with a non-political delegation of agriculture experts and agriculturists from Punjab at 6.30pm, reached Delhi on Wednesday evening. He was, however, informed about the postponement in the morning on Thursday. “The meeting was postponed as Shah had to leave for Gujarat,” said a person privy to Capt’s efforts to resolve the standoff between the Centre and farmer unions, and was part of the delegation. An aide of the former CM said no fresh date has been given for the meeting. Amarinder, who was made to resign as the CM following months of tussle and turbulence in the Punjab Congress, has already announced that he is launching his own party. He had earlier said that any seat sharing arrangement with the BJP for the Punjab elections would be subject to a resolution of the farmers’ issue in their interest. He is, however, still to quit the Congress. On Wednesday, the two-time former CM said he had been discussing various options with the Union home minister and others for resolution of the standoff. “I think I can help in finding a solution as I have been the chief minister of Punjab and am also an agriculturist,” he told reporters at a press conference in Chandigarh on Wednesday. While there could be no pre-decided formula for the resolution of the farmers’ stir, something would emerge during the talks as both sides, the central government and farmers, want a resolution to the crisis triggered by the farm laws, he said, clarifying that he had not met any farmer leader. Amarinder also said he had deliberately not intervened in the matter as the farmers did not want politicians involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capts-meeting-with-amit-shah-on-farmers-stir-postponed-101635449388593.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fazilka boys’ team wins Punjab state baseball championship||The Fazilka baseball boy’s team emerged champions by defeating Ludhiana 8-4 in the finals of the 9th Junior Punjab State Baseball Championship organised by Punjab Baseball Association at Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Gill, Ludhiana.Moga bagged the third spot by beating Mohali 3-2.Overall, 15 districts including Ludhiana, Fazilka, Patiala, Moga, Barnala, Ferozpur, Sangrur, Amritsar, Malerkotla, Mohali, Muktsar, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Jalandhar and Fatehgarh Sahib participated in the championship.Ludhiana on Wednesday had beaten Moga by 3-2 score to reach the finals while Fazilka had beaten Mohali 14-4.The Ludhiana baseball girls’ team had on Wednesday won the state tournament by defeating Ferozpur 14-4 in the finals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fazilka-boys-team-wins-punjab-state-baseball-championship-101635449271003.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Abhay Chautala eyeing third victory amid stir against Centre’s farm laws||The Ellenabad bypoll, which is scheduled for October 30, seems to have become more of a prestige issue for the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) as compared to the ruling BJP-JJP coalition and the Congress.After Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who is one of the leading faces of the farm agitation, in an indirect reference asked people at the Nathusari Chopta village rally on Wednesday to support INLD nominee Abhay Singh Chautala, the leader’s prospects of winning seem brighter than that of BJP’s Gobind Kanda and Congress candidate Pawan Beniwal, say experts.Four-time MLA Abhay is aiming for a bypoll victory hat-trick as he is contesting his third bypoll from Ellenabad.He had won the Rori bypoll in 2000 and from Ellenabad in 2010 after his father OP Chautala had resigned from here as he won from two seats - Ellenabad and Uchana Kalan in Jind - in 2009 assembly polls.If Abhay wins again, he will level the record of his father Om Prakash Chautala and his grandfather late Devi Lal, who had both won three bypolls in their political career.Former deputy prime minister Devi Lal had won three bypolls - Sirsa in 1959, Rori in 1974 and Meham in 1985, while OP Chautala had emerged a winner from Ellenabad in 1970 bypoll, Darba in 1990 and Narwana in 1993.The 1970 bypoll in Ellenabad was necessitated after OP Chautala had challenged the 1968 assembly election in the Supreme Court (SC) which he had lost to Vishal Haryana Party’s Chand Khod.The SC had declared the 1968 assembly result of Ellenabad void, resulting in poll in 1970 which was won by OP Chautala by defeating independent candidate P Raj. Khod had not been in the fray.Abhay has an upper hand: ExpertsThe bypoll which was necessitated after Abhay had resigned from the state assembly on January 27 after the Republic Day violence in support of farmers, will depict the real mood of the agrarian community against the Centre’s three farm laws, say experts.Of total 211 booths in Ellenabad constituency, 178 are in rural areas and result of the bypoll will give a true picture of the simmering anger against the rulling BJP-JJP over these laws.Maharshi Dayanand University’s (MDU) Prof Rajender Sharma said, “Abhay’s prospects are better this time. This is because there is an internal rift in Congress, while BJP is facing the heat of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws.”“After Tikait extended support to Abhay, it is clear that the farm group will back the INLD leader and the ‘anti-farmer’ sentiments will go towards the BJP candidate. Every bypoll depicts the performance of the ruling government and it is important for the BJP-JJP as they had lost the Baroda bypoll a year ago,” he said.“In this election, it is interesting that there is fight for the first three positions. This bypoll will reflect the farmers’ anger against the ruling party, besides the impact of unemployment. This election is important for the INLD to give confidence to its workers that there’s still space for them in the state politics,” he added.Retired political science professor Anant Ram said the main battle is being fought between the BJP and the INLD.“The ruling government made all attempts to give a tough challenge to INLD’s Abhay Chautala. The Congress’ campaign remained slow as most of the MLAs associated with the Hooda camp stayed away and state party chief Kumari Selja tried to utilise maximum of her available supporters,” Ram said.“This constituency has 35% Jat voters while the BJP has relied on non-Jat voters by pitching Gobind Kanda. The results will depict the performance of the BJP-JJP government, the farm laws’ impact and outcome of caste polarisation methodology,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-abhay-chautala-eyeing-third-victory-amid-stir-against-centre-s-farm-laws-101635449269546.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||A day after Capt announces to form new party, Channi meets Rahul||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Thursday amid apprehensions about the fallout of his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh’s plans to form a separate party in next few days. The meeting at the former party president’s residence that lasted close to two-and-a-half hours was also attended by All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and newly appointed Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary. Rahul took feedback from the CM on the steps being taken to keep the flock together, besides discussing the strategy for the assembly polls in the wake of the two-time former CM’s announcement to field candidates in all the 117 seats, a person privy to the developments said. Channi’s meeting with the central leadership came a day after Amarinder confirmed that he is launching his new party and only waiting for the Election Commission to approve its name and symbol. The former CM, who is still to quit the Congress, also said at a press conference that some leaders from the Congress were in touch with him. The Congress leadership is wary of party leaders, who have been close to Amarinder, joining him and has reached out to several such leaders. Rahul held separate meetings with four MLAs Balbir Singh Sidhu, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who were ministers in the Amarinder government and got dropped in the new dispensation, on Tuesday, telling them that they were not included in the Channi cabinet to give opportunity to other legislators. Amarinder had resigned as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 amid a tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and rebellion by several ministers and MLAs. Channi is also learnt to have briefed the central leaders about the welfare measures taken by his government. Jakhar’s dig at Channi’s Delhi trip, Kejriwal responds with smiley Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar took a dig at Channi’s frequent trips to the national capital. “Punjab CM in Delhi, Delhi CM in Punjab, yet again! Must say, at least one of them has got his timing right,” he tweeted. The post elicited an instant response from AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who responded with a smiley on Twitter. Kejriwal is on his fourth trip to the poll-bound state in two months. Former Akali leader joins Cong Punjab Rifle Association vice-president and former Akali Dal leader Parminder Singh Brar joined the Congress. He joined the party in Delhi in Venugopal’s presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-day-after-capt-announces-to-form-new-party-channi-meets-rahul-101635449208479.html
29-10-2021||Pune||MSRTC strike called off after meeting with transport minister Parab||In a major impact on transportation due to the ongoing Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers’ strike across the state, in Pune of the daily 850 bus operations, only 100 buses were on the roads on Thursday. In a meeting held with the state transport minister Anil Parab on Thursday evening, demands made by the workers were agreed upon and from Friday onwards, MSRTC bus operations are expected to resume normally. On the Pune-Mumbai route only 23 buses operated, as earlier, daily, 200 buses used to ply. As the Diwali rush has started, there are large number of people traveling from Pune to various parts of the state, and also coming to Pune for the festival. Since Wednesday, MSRTC workers’ union began a statewide strike for various demands, mainly pending dues, a Diwali bonus and extra payment for the those who worked during the lockdowns. “The ongoing strike has certainly affected our daily bus operations in the Pune division, as hardly 100 buses went on various routes. These buses were from other divisions which had come in yesterday to Pune and returned back to their divisions. Apart from that none of the buses from Pune division went on route as there were no drivers and conductors,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller. “Daily, there are 850 bus operations currently on from various ST stands in the Pune division from which buses go all over the state. This drastically came down to 100 buses today, while on the Pune-Mumbai route only 23 buses plied. Whereas there is continuous bus service every 15 minutes on this route,” he added. Due to this onging strike the public has had to suffer. Meghanath Kendre a banker said, “I had planned to go to Mumbai for personal work by a Shivshahi bus and when I came to Swargate ST stand in the afternoon there were no buses going on this route. I was told that there are no buses running and if any bus goes then it will be announced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-strike-called-off-after-meeting-with-transport-minister-parab-101635449148420.html
29-10-2021||Other||Sangrur college principal denied entry; allowed in only after DPI cancels suspension||Sangrur There was high drama at the gate of the Akal Degree College for Women, Sangrur, on Thursday after the principal, Sukhmeen Kaur Sidhu, was denied entry with the management citing her October 23 suspension as the cause. She sat on a dharna at the gate itself, with some students also joining her, seeking that she allowed to enter college premises. Finally, after the protest that lasted an hour, the management allowed entry to the principal. Akal Degree College for Women president Karanveer Singh Sibia said the college management had suspended Sidhu with immediate effect for serious financial irregularities, administrative malpractices and security issues on October 23.“The management received an e-mail from the DPI office, Punjab, on the cancellation of her suspension orders by the office of secretary, higher education, Punjab. After the receipt of these orders, the management complied with these and allowed Sukhmeen Sidhu to join college immediately,” Sibia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-college-principal-denied-entry-allowed-in-only-after-dpi-cancels-suspension-101635449088427.html
29-10-2021||Pune||PMC takes action against 23 illegal firecracker stalls in Pune||PUNE: Despite the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) allowing setting up of firecracker stalls at 14 allocated places in the city, vendors are hawking firecrackers along roads and chowks forcing the civic body to initiate action against the errant stalls. In the last two days alone, the corporation has taken action against over 20 such stalls in different parts of the city.The PMC took action against as many as 14 unauthorised stalls in the Warje Malwadi area. Thereafter, it seized firecrackers from seven illegal stalls at Sinhagad road and Dhankawadi. In the Dhole Patil road and Vishrambaug Wada wards, the corporation took action against two stalls. Most of the illegal firecracker stalls were found in suburban areas.Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment department of PMC, said, “We have initiated action against unauthorised firecracker stalls. In the last two days, we took action against 23 stalls which were posing a fire hazard and could have caused accidents. The action will continue for the next two weeks.”Avinash Dhadphale, assistant anti-encroachment inspector, said, “The corporation has started action against illegal firecracker stalls in the city since last Monday. Till date, we have taken action against 23 firecracker stalls in various parts of the city. The corporation has given permission to set up stalls at only 14 locations and the list was released to the media along with addresses and norms to be followed. Notwithstanding, people are setting up unauthorised stalls at various locations, especially chowks and along roads and footpaths. The corporation has also filed police complaints against the owners of illegal firecracker stalls.”Last year, setting up firecracker stalls was not permitted due to Covid-19 restrictions. This year, the state and PMC have eased the norms and allowed the bursting of firecrackers during Diwali. Based on this, the corporation and the police have allowed setting up of stalls at 14 allocated locations across the city. However, people are refusing to follow the corporation and police norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-takes-action-against-23-illegal-firecracker-stalls-in-pune-101635448848460.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Punekars rejoice as Diwali “pahats” set to return||PUNE: After Covid-19 forced a two-year break, Pune’s 24-year-old “Diwali pahat” tradition will be back this year, albeit with 50% attendance. Both performers and audiences are eagerly awaiting the return of these customary early morning cultural events during Diwali however auditoriums and theatres will have to follow the Covid-19 protocol of 50% capacity as per state government guidelines. Still, several programme organisers have announced Diwali pahat functions from November 1 to 6 at Balgandharva Rang Mandir, Yeshwantrao Chavan Natyagruha and Ganesh Kala Krida Sankul in the city.Satish Desai, one of the oldest organisers of Diwali pahat, said, “We are happy to hold an actual event and the audience response to the announcement has been enthusiastic. We are going to have gayan (singing) by Hindustani classical singer Rahul Deshpande and despite the government guidelines of 50% capacity, we are looking at a full house.”Sunil Mahajan, another organiser of Diwali pahat, will hold a unique event on November 5 at ShivShrushti. “I have planned an entire event to showcase the historical moments during the Chhatrapati Shivaji era, complete with Mavalas, Mardani khel etc.,” Mahajan said.Manisha Nischal’s production company, Mehak, has been holding Diwali pahats for six years. “It feels good to be creating a live event and the enthusiasm of the audience and music lovers is overwhelming. Just minutes after announcing the Pahat on social media, we were flooded with calls for tickets. People are eager to step out of their houses and celebrate the festival together.”Singer Salil Kulkarni is performing at Yeshwantrao Chavan Natyagruha on November 6 (6.30am). “I realised what missing a live audience feels like. The claps, overtures and happiness on their faces as they immerse themselves in the music is such a joy to watch. The only sad part is that people in the audience will be sitting in alternate chairs. This is unlike the usual ambience of sitting close and exchanging notes during the performance. I am waiting for the 100% capacity announcement from the government for it is a blessing to have a full house resounding with applause.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punekars-rejoice-as-diwali-pahats-set-to-return-101635448610145.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP sends Diwali gifts to its 30 lakh booth-level workers||LUCKNOW: This Diwali is going to be special for more than 30 lakh booth level workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh (UP). To keep its cadre in good humour ahead of the 2022 UP elections that are just a couple of months away, and to emphasise the importance of booth-level management, the BJP has decided to send attractive gift boxes to them. These gift boxes would contain sweets, door hangings and earthen lamps shaped like lotus. “It’s our parampara (tradition) to gift people on Diwali,” said UP BJP vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak. Asked if this was the first time the party remembered its booth level workers, he said, “We are a cadre-based party. So naturally, this time too we are connecting with our cadre on the auspicious occasion of Diwali.” A booklet containing various development schemes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also being distributed to the workers so that it acted as a ready reckoner in explaining schemes to the people, party leaders said. The BJP has also decided to light nine lakh earthen lamps in Ayodhya, one each for as many beneficiaries of the government’s free housing scheme in urban areas of the state. Another 45 lakh earthen lamps are to be lit for as many beneficiaries of housing scheme (both urban and rural) across the state. During his visit to Lucknow for inauguration of the urban conclave, Modi had tasked the BJP unit with lighting earthen lamps for beneficiaries of housing scheme. Coincidentally, union home minister Amit Shah, who arrives in Lucknow on Friday to prepare the blueprint for 2022 UP polls, had implemented the booth level management formulae in 2014 Lok Sabha polls when he was appointed UP in charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sends-diwali-gifts-to-its-30-lakh-booth-level-workers-101635448608466.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Railways installs Braille rendition of Pune station layout||PUNE To help visually challenged passengers at the Pune railway station, the Pune railway has installed a Braille layout of the station premises and released a a Braille handbook with information about the station. Both these are in the LIPI format which is a text-based rendering. Bridgestone India installed the Braille map as well, as provided sign language videos and ramps for easy access to wheelchair-bound passengers. “The station has now Braille maps installed in metal that describes the entire railway station premises and all facilities at the station. These are compact and easy for a person reading it as the entire map is the size of a normal A4 paper. Smartphone scanable audio and sign- language video QR codes have been installed at various locations that give video-based information about the railway station, both in audio and sign language. Portable ramps that empower people using wheelchairs to board trains have also been provided,” said Parag Satpute, managing director, Bridgestone India. SC Jain, Pune Station Director said, “We are delighted to share that in line with the government’s accessible India campaign, Pune junction has been made more accessible for people with disabilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/railways-installs-braille-rendition-of-pune-station-layout-101635448368522.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to promote associate profs to professors||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to promote associate professors to professors in government colleges and government-aided colleges, on Thursday, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma announced.Till now, associate professors of colleges were not getting promoted to the post of professor, prompting them to go to other states. “It was a long-pending demand of the teaching community, which the department under the direction of CM Yogi Adityanath fulfilled today,” Sharma said.When asked if the step was taken in view of the upcoming Assembly elections, he answered in negative. He said because of the many measures to bring a qualitative change to education in UP, which before 2017 was accorded ‘C’ grade by the Centre, it has now got ‘A’ grade. The move, according to Sharma, is a way to improve education quality in the state.The announcement will come into effect with the issue of a notification and it is in accordance with norms of the University Grants Commission (UGC), he said. “The benefit of this arrangement will be admissible to such associate professors, who fulfil the prescribed qualifications on and after the date of issue of the mandate,” said Sharma.More than 4,000 associate professors of about 500 colleges will be able to get the benefit of promotion to the post of professor under the career advancement scheme.Apart from the benefit of promotion to the post of professor, the way has been paved for college teachers to get appointments on the basis of the post of professor in other higher institutions. The decision was welcomed by the teacher fraternity.Maulendu Mishra, professor, Lucknow Christian Degree College, said, “The decision to promote teachers is a commendable step by the government. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma must be lauded.”Talking about steps taken to strengthen the education infrastructure in the state, Sharma said that the setting up of 12 new state universities is under progress. Besides, 77 degree colleges and 250 new secondary schools have been opened. The process is also on to recruit retired teachers in higher education institutes on a contractual basis to fill vacancies, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-promote-associate-profs-to-professors-101635448069600.html
29-10-2021||Pune||PMC order: Masks compulsory in all offices; firms to ensure staff fully vaxed||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has made wearing the face mask mandatory for staff and visitors in all government and private offices, along with industries. The PMC issued an order on Thursday stating this, while also instructing those in charge of offices to get staff fully vaccinated on priority and take the responsibility of acquiring vaccination certificates. As per the order, the civic body has asked offices to appoint an officer to ensure compliance to these guidelines. The PMC has also given authority to senior civic officials to fine those in violation of these rules. “These rules will be applicable in the limits of PMC from October 28,” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said in the order. Although the Covid positivity rate in PMC limits has dropped drastically in the past few weeks, heavy crowds on streets and reopening of offices and other establishments at full capacity poses a danger of a surge in cases in view of a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour, experts have said. Experts have warned about flouting Covid-preventive behaviour and emphasised maximum vaccination coverage. “Currently there are serious lapses in Covid preventive norms. As cases have gone down, there is less fear of the virus. Many countries in the world are experiencing a surge in Covid cases because of the new variants and that’s why compliance to Covid prevention norms are necessary. There is huge crowding on roads and markets now and absolute lack of Covid- appropriate behaviour. We may see a surge in Covid cases post Diwali,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, family physician and former Maharashtra head of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). He also mentioned that people should be encouraged to get the second vaccine dose. “We had seen this at the time of swine flu as well. People don’t care about getting the jab once the infection rate goes down. We should remember that, in terms of Covid preventive vaccines, only first dose is not of much use and both doses are essential in building immunity. So, second dose should be taken on time without delay,” said Dr Bhondwe. In rural parts of the district, the Pune Zilla Parishad has also decided to step up its vaccination drive. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune ZP said that the administration has been planning door-to-door surveys to identify unvaccinated people in the rural parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-order-masks-compulsory-in-all-offices-firms-to-ensure-staff-fully-vaxed-101635448010489.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah arrives in Lucknow today, to finalise blue print of party’s Mission 2022||LUCKNOW: Union home minister Amit Shah would launch the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) membership campaign and flag off the party’s campaign vehicles before going into a day-long huddle with senior leaders, former lawmakers and 2019 Lok Sabha poll in charges in Lucknow on Friday. Shah, who was the UP BJP in-charge in 2014 Lok Sabha polls and 2017 UP elections when the party scripted a miraculous turnaround, is scheduled to spend Friday night possibly at the BJP’s state headquarters in Lucknow that too was refurbished under his watch. Soon after arriving in the state capital, Shah will launch the membership campaign from Defence Expo grounds, Vrindavan Yojana and is set to address Shakti Kendra in charges of Awadh region. “He would also flag off LED campaign vehicles for 2022 UP polls,” party’s co-media in-charge Abhay Pratap Singh said. After that, he is scheduled to visit the Indira Gandhi Pratisthan where he would hold meetings, consulting Lok Sabha in charges in 2019 general election when the party won 64 out of 80 seats in the state. The BJP had won these seats despite an alliance between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)—the reason why meeting with 2019 Lok Sabha in-charges was listed prominently in Shah’s Friday itinerary, party leaders indicated. There are expectations that BJP might deny tickets to several of its sitting lawmakers in UP and party leaders indicated that during his meetings, Shah would also clear the air on the subject. “The LS poll in charges would have an in-depth view of things. They have on-the-ground estimate of how we did well despite a tough caste arithmetic that the coming together of SP-BSP presented before us in 2019 LS polls. That’s why his meeting with them would be important because he would surely base his campaign strategy, either wholly or in part, on the basis of his meetings with them,” a BJP leader said. BJP’s election panel chief Dharmendra Pradhan, state chief Swatantra Dev, general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal and UP incharge Radha Mohan Singh among others, would be present in the meetings. Poll in charges for each assembly segment in 2022 UP polls are also scheduled to meet Shah. Amit Shah is also scheduled to hold meetings with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and senior ministers. Asked about his agenda on Saturday, BJP leaders said that it was still not finalized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-arrives-in-lucknow-today-to-finalise-blue-print-of-party-s-mission-2022-101635447588336.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Gosavi arrested by Pune Police in 2018 cheating case; also witness in Aryan Khan case||PUNE The Pune police, on Thursday, arrested Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs-on-cruise ship bust, involving Aryan Khan. Gosavi was however arrested in connection with a ₹3.09 lakh cheating case lodged in 2018 by the Faraskhana police. According to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, so far police from other cities have not approached the Pune police for his custody. “There is no such demand yet (from Mumbai Police or any other agency) to handover Kiran Gosavi to them. They can approach the court if they want it as part of procedure,” said Gupta. On being asked if the arrest of Gosavi by Pune police can be attributed to a political fallout between the state government and the Centre, especially since the case he has been arrested in is four-years old, the commissioner said, “There is no politics involved in this matter.” Gosavi, according to officials, was on the run under the alias Sachin Patil, staying at various places including Lucknow, Jabalpur, Hyderabad, and Fatehpur. “At these places, Gosavi was projecting himself as member of the ‘Stop Crime NGO’ and CIBCA detective agency. He was also claiming to run an export-import business,” said Gupta. Gosavi was detained from a lodge in Katraj at around 3:30 am by the anti-extortion cell of the Pune Police. “We were searching for him based on social media photos. Based on inputs, we detained him at the Katraj lodge,” said Gupta. Pune police have already filed a chargesheet in May 2019 in the cheating case. Police have already arrested Gosavi’s assistant Sherbano Kureshi in connection with the cheating case filed by one Chinmay Deshmukh, who had alleged that Gosavi cheated him of ₹3.09 lakh under the pretext of providing him a job in Malaysia in the hotel industry. Kureshi received the money in her account. A lookout circular to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country was also issued by the police. Gosavi had been reportedly claiming on some news channels that he would surrender before the police in connection with the case. Earlier on Monday, Pune police said had formed at least two teams to trace Gosavi, with one team being sent to Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gosavi-arrested-by-pune-police-in-2018-cheating-case-also-witness-in-aryan-khan-case-101635447408472.html
29-10-2021||Other||{Bharatmala Pariyojana} NHAI proposes 1,600km of elevated expressways for Punjab||Chandigarh The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has proposed 1,628km of access-controlled (elevated) expressways in Punjab, of which 1,100km are green-field (new) projects and 528km will be brown-field projects (extension of existing highways). For the first time in Punjab, three new roads will come parallel to the existing routes of Ambala-Zirakpur (40km), Amritsar-Bathinda (155km) and Mohali-Sirhind (27km). All these roads are part of the nationwide Bharatmala Pariyojana. The cost of these projects, which have a completion deadline of three years when started in 2022, is ₹40,000 crore, including land compensation of ₹12,000 crore. “NHAI surveys show that 22,000 acre land will be acquired for these expressway projects,” said RP Singh, NHAI’s project head in Punjab. There are 13 more expressway projects, including seven bypasses to take out traffic from within the main cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala, Malout, Mandi Dabwali and Phagwara. The 6-lane Patran-Gurdaspur road (397 km), a part of Delhi-Katra expressway project, which will cut diagonally across the state is another key part of the project, as it will connect the state’s major destinations. Depending on traffic density, these expressways have been planned to be 4 or 6 lanes, to be built at an elevation from 3-4m above the ground for uninterrupted traffic flow. Toll tax will be imposed on these proposed expressways however there will be no collection barriers as in case of the existing highways. “These expressways will push development in the state as the average speed of the transport shall almost be doubled to 100-120 km per hour. The access-controlled expressway will neutralise the locational disadvantage of state in terms of distance from the ports thus giving a boost to agri-marketing and commercial enterprises,” said Kahan Singh Pannu, NHAI’s adviser for projects in Punjab, adding that fatal road mishaps which claim 12 lives per day in the state will reduce with these roads, as high-speed vehicles and large size goods vehicles will shift there. On a section of farmers claiming that compensation pai to them for their land was low, Pannu said that the matter was in the knowledge of the NHAI and will be resolved shortly. The major brown field projects ( there are 9 in this category) are Amritsar-Hoshiarpur, Bathinda-Malout and Phagwara-Hoshiarpur. GREEN FIELD PROJECTSDelhi-Katra (397km); Amritsar connectivity (99km); Amritsar-Bathinda (155 km); Ludhiana-Bathinda (75km); Ludhiana-Ropar (129km); Mohali-Sirhind (27km); Ambala-Zirakpur (40km); Mohali-Kurali (31km); Moga-Bajakhana (43km), and bypasses at Ludhiana (26km), Jalandhar (47km), Amritsar (50km), Patiala (27km), Malout (16km), Mandi Dabwali (9km), and Phagwara (7km) BROWN FIELD PROJECTSMalout-Abohar-Siduwal (65km); Jodhpur Romana-Mandi Dabwali (28km); Amritsar-Hoshiarpur-Una (153km), Rayya-Batala-Dera Baba Nanak (70km); Amritsar-Ajnala-Dera Baba Nanak (39km); Bathinda-Malout (39km); Malout-Mandi Dabwali (23km); Abohar-Fazilka (46km) and Phagwara-Hoshiarpur (42km).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharatmala-pariyojana-nhai-proposes-1-600km-of-elevated-expressways-for-punjab-101635447348587.html
29-10-2021||Lucknow||Air quality worsens in UP cities as winter knocks on doors||Poor air quality has returned to Uttar Pradesh cities with the drop in average day temperatures and increased human activity, if the Air Quality Index (AQI) figures of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) are anything to go by.All major cities in Uttar Pradesh have recorded an increase of an average of 100 units in AQI, reflective of the air quality of a particular region, in a month. According to the data, Agra recorded an AQI of 272 on Thursday up from 58 on October 1. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 290, up from 138 in the same time span. Kanpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur all recorded a considerable rise in AQI value. AQI over 200 is considered poor with adverse impact on human health on long-term exposure.The state capital Lucknow on Thursday recorded an AQI of 179 up from 71 recorded at the start of this month. Within the city, Gomti Nagar and Talkatora recorded the worst air quality with AQI hovering around 300. In these parts of the cities, the major pollutants remained particulate matter 2.5 and 10.According to experts, the drop in average day temperatures, caused by the onset of winter and increased human activity with relaxation in Covid-19 curfew, are major contributors behind the depleting air quality. In the last 30 days, the average day temperatures dropped by 10 degrees across Uttar Pradesh.“Winter poses a particular challenge for particulate matter in the air to settle down due to dense air. This leads to air pollution that is reflected in higher AQI values,” said environmentalist Dinesh Srivastav.Poor air quality is expected to worsen in the coming days with a further drop in temperatures and increase in farm activity, especially the burning of paddy stubble.Considering the depleting air quality, authorities are set to enforce the graded response action plan (GRAP). “GRAP will result in stricter restrictions on various activities like construction, industrial activities and others to limit air pollution. We are monitoring the situation and stricter measures will be taken as and when required,” said Ajay Sharma, member secretary, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-quality-worsens-in-up-cities-as-winter-knocks-on-doors-101635447228173.html
29-10-2021||Pune||Man attempts to cheat medical college in Pune of Rs25 lakh, booked||PUNE: A man and likely his accomplice were booked by the Pune police on Wednesday for forging a private bank cheque and using it to dupe B J Medical college of Rs2,500,000.The incident came to light when B J Medical college carried out a routine check of their bank statement. An official in the medical college’s accounts department updated their passbook on October 7 only to find the transfer via cheque on October 6.“The transfer was immediately reported and reversed. So, the money remains in its rightful account. But another attempt was made within days. We are checking the receiver’s account details and are verifying them,” said police sub-inspector T M Fadd of Bundgarden police station who is investigating the case.The accused encashed the cheque on October 6, and tried to do the same on October 11. However, officials of the medical college attached to the Sassoon General hospital had already become alert.A case under sections 465, 467, 468, 471, 420, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-attempts-to-cheat-medical-college-in-pune-of-rs25-lakh-booked-101635446988136.html
29-10-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccination coverage: UP to implement Cluster Model 2.0 to amplify vax drive||The Uttar Pradesh government is to launch Cluster Model 2.0 from November 1, in a bid to intensify the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive and ensure 100% administration of the first dose of the vaccine in all districts of the state, state health department officials said.To administer the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state using the cluster model, the Cluster Model 1.0 was launched in the state on June 14, 2021. Under this initiative, till October 19, 2021, around 64% of the eligible persons had been administered the first dose of the vaccine while 19% had been administered both doses. Out of 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country, UP alone accounts for an impressive 12.23 crore doses, officials added.Now, after reviewing the vaccination progress till October 2021, a need for additional efforts has been felt to help meet the target. For this, while the ongoing initiatives of fixed booths, cluster approach and mega vaccination days etc will continue as before, efforts to ensure 100% administration of second doses will be made. The effort will be to focus on villages where the first dose was given using the cluster approach and the second dose will now be administered using Cluster Model 2.0.Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad, has sent a missive dated October 23 to all district magistrates and chief medical officers (CMOs) in this regard specifying the approach to be taken under Cluster Model 2.0.“All districts will now undertake an assessment using the survey approach in all its revenue villages through tehsildars to assess the administration of the first dose of the vaccine to get reliable figures. Based on these numbers, the villages will be divided into three groups: Those having 95% or more administration of the first dose, those with 80% to 85% administration of the first dose and those with less than 80% administration of the first dose. Based on this list, vaccinations will be prioritised,” informed a senior state health department official.As part of this initiative, mobilisers like ASHA and Anganwadi workers etc will identify individuals who have failed to take the first dose of the vaccine and will motivate such people to get it administered. The progress of this task will be assessed each evening at block development level, he added.Besides honouring Gram Pradhans which attain 100% first-dose vaccination, for urban areas special vaccination rounds with flexi-timings would also be organised to help working people get the jab outside routine working hours also. Every district will also have at least one fixed vaccination session lasting from 8am to 10pm in two shifts at the district hospital, medical colleges etc, says the missive, a copy of which is with HT.“A three-day, door-to-door survey to identify people who have not got their first or second dose of Covid-19 vaccination is already underway in the district as per the state government’s orders. Based on that data, people who have not got the first dose till now, would be targeted and motivated to get it between November 1 and November 15,” said CMO, Prayagraj, Dr Nanak Saran.“Our efforts will be to ensure that all eligible individuals get their first dose during this time in the entire district even as we motivate people to take their second jab too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccination-coverage-up-to-implement-cluster-model-2-0-to-amplify-vax-drive-101635446749806.html
29-10-2021||Pune||67-year-old in police custody for sex assault of 5-year-old in Pune||PUNE: A 67-year-old man has been arrested and remanded to the custody of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police by a court in Pune for sexually assaulting a 5-year-old girl in Charholi Budrukh village.The man lives in the same village as the survivor. He owns a field and cattle stock, according to the police.“The women in the area said that he used to letch at them and has a habit of sexualising women. Nobody came on record, besides the girl,” said Prerna Katte, assistant commissioner of police, Chakan division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The 5-year-old child was playing with the accused man’s grandchildren on the afternoon of October 4 when he citizen arrived. He told the child that he was taking her to see the guava garden, but instead took her to his farm and sexually assaulted her, the child’s parents told the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The girl’s parents were at work and she was in the care of her grandmother when the incident happened. Her grandmother’s health deteriorated after learning about the incident and she had to be hospitalised, according to the police. “He shut her mouth with his hands when she started screaming and later threatened her about revealing the incident to anyone. However, the next day, she started experiencing pain in the wounds inflicted upon her during the assault and told her grandmother,” said ACP Katte.The grandmother told the parents and they informed the police the same day. A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act was registered at Dighi police station. Sub-inspector Vidya Mane of Dighi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/67yearold-in-police-custody-for-sex-assault-of-5-year-old-in-pune-101635446748222.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Low temperature, slow winds, stubble burning to worsen Delhi's air quality||Weather forecasters have said that the city is headed for a further deterioration in pollution levels in the coming days under the impact of low temperatures, slow winds and an increase in stubble burning instances in Punjab and Haryana.At least seven of 34 localities in Delhi where air quality is monitored by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recorded ‘very poor’ air quality on Thursday.CPCB recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 268, in the ‘poor’ category. This was a dip from Wednesday’s 232, which was also categorised as ‘poor’ in the AQI scale.On Thursday, pollution monitoring stations at Shadipur, NSIT Dwarka, Bawana, Pusa, Mundka, Anand Vihar and Dilshad Garden showed ‘very poor’ AQI levels.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that pollution levels are likely to rise further in the coming days and reach the ‘very poor’ zone.“The temperatures are dropping and the local wind speeds are also low, which is not conducive for pollution dispersion. Currently, Delhi is also receiving winds from the northwest direction, where states such as Punjab and Haryana are reporting a rise in stubble fires. All this combined together will adversely impact Delhi’s air,” said a senior Met official.Air quality forecasting systems have also predicted bad air days for Delhi. Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) showed that on Thursday 502 stubble fires were reported from parts of Punjab and Haryana and these contributed to 19% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres).Meanwhile, the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s decision support system said that on Friday, the share of stubble fires in Delhi’s air will be as much as 50%. Local factors such as vehicular emissions are likely to contribute to around 20% of the city’s PM 2.6 level and road dust and construction activities are expected to contribute to around 2-4% each.Forecasters also said that the dropping temperatures will also result in pollutants getting stuck closer to the surface. IMD recordings showed that at the Safdarjung weather station, which is the official marker for the city, the maximum temperature was 28.5 degrees Celsius, three degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 14.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.“On Friday and Saturday, temperatures are likely to fall marginally and after that because of a passing western disturbance, temperatures will stabilise. With western disturbance, however, winds tend to slow down and this will impact the air quality,” said Mahesh Pawalat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at the Skymet Weather Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/low-temperature-slow-winds-stubble-burning-to-worsen-delhi-air-quality-101635444888031.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches chatbot, website on pollution||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday launched a chatbot and website to facilitate people’s participation in the fight against pollution.Speaking to the media about the ‘Paryavaran Saathi’ chatbot, Rai said that people can share the steps they are taking to fight pollution on WhatsApp number (9650414141), and they will be awarded points. This initiative has been started to encourage people to be more mindful of environmental concerns and also contribute towards managing it. The top 100 performers will be honoured, he said.“They can share the steps they are taking at the local level to fight pollution. For instance, if they are using public transportation, they can share pictures and if they are forming nukkad (street) teams to fight pollution, they can tell us about their programme,” Rai said.He added, “They will be awarded points on the basis of their initiatives… 100 people will be shortlisted and honoured. The chatbot has been made in partnership with UNICEF.”The minister also announced the revamp of a one-stop website – www.delhifightspollution.in – which will let people know about the pollution levels in the national capital, and the steps they can take to control various types of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-chatbot-website-on-pollution-101635444588268.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||‘Has intimate material’: Court declines to share data with Delhi riots accused||A Delhi court on Thursday said that the mobile data collected from several accused in the Delhi riots conspiracy case, cannot be supplied to the co-accused as it raises the question of their right to privacy and contains their private photos, videos.“It appears that there is a question of right of privacy of accused and supply of any such data, as asked for, will have an impact on personal lives of the accused persons and thus, supplying any photographs or video as contained in the mobile phone of accused to any other accused persons or even to the counsel of the accused would not be possible,” said additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat.Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, varsity students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain and 13 others are the accused in the case. They have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).The court’s observation comes after the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) submitted that the personal data in the mobile phones of the accused persons cannot be supplied to the other accused persons due to “privacy concerns”.The court noted in its order that the public prosecutor presented two sealed envelopes that contained photographs from the mobile phones, and added that these included intimate pictures and videos by the accused persons.These were filed in response to the applications by some of the accused seeking additional documents, which the SPP said was “duly supplied”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/has-intimate-material-court-declines-to-share-data-with-delhi-riots-accused-101635444289493.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Dwarka tops list, Anand Vihar second among air pollution hot spots in Delhi||New Delhi Dwarka, Anand Vihar, Mundka and Shadipur have spent at least four days in the daily list of Delhi’s top five pollution hot spots since October 17, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Dwarka has stayed in the top five list for nine out of the 12 days, and Anand Vihar on eight days, shows CPCB’s daily air quality bulletins, underlining the need for immediate local measures to curb pollution in these areas where air has consistently stayed harmful.As the air quality in Delhi has begun worsening, Central Pollution Control Board has started releasing daily air quality reports, featuring the day’s top five most polluted locations across Delhi and NCR. The bulletin features the daily farm fire count, the daily Air Quality Index (AQI), meteorological conditions and forecast for the next day by both the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM).
29-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Diesel gensets banned as AQI tanks||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday banned the use of diesel generator sets and ordered enhancing of parking fee by up to four times in Delhi-NCR, measures listed under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) when the air quality hits ‘very poor’, according to an official order.Though the air quality in Delhi is yet to hit ‘very poor’ category (when average AQI is between 200 and 300) this month, pollution levels have escalated fast since Monday when the city reported an AQI of 82 (in the satisfactory category) to 268 (poor category) on Thursday.HT reported on Tuesday that according to an assessment by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Delhi is headed towards an air emergency as stubble fires are expected to peak -- coinciding with Diwali (to be celebrated on November 4), when pollution levels usually spike because of large-scale bursting of firecrackers despite a ban.According to the CPCB order, the implementation of Grap measures under ‘very poor’ category were ordered to be enforced after a meeting convened by a sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM) concluded that the air quality in the city is set to deteriorate in the coming days and hit dangerous levels.“Actions under ‘very poor’ category, in addition to steps listed under the ‘poor to moderate’ AQI category should be implemented with immediate effect in Delhi-NCR,” the CPCB order read.Besides ban on diesel gensets and increase in parking fee, other measures that will come into force include ban on the use of coal and wood in restaurants and open kitchens and augmentation of bus and Metro services.These measures will be in addition to the steps that were enforced on October 18 listed under ‘moderate to poor’ category such as ban on firecrackers, stopping burning of garbage, mechanised sweeping of roads, sprinkling of water on unpaved roads and strict implementation of the PUC norms for vehicles.On October 18, three days after its usual commencement date, the CPCB called into force the GRAP, and said that the measures listed under the ‘moderate to poor’ air quality section of the emergency plan should be immediately put into place by the Capital’s agencies, irrespective of the daily AQI readings.Prashant Gargava, chairperson of the sub-committee on Grap, and member secretary, CPCB, told HT that conditions were expected to become worse in the coming days, with north-westerly winds bringing high load of pollutants from stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana. This is coinciding with a drop in the temperature that makes dispersal of pollutants difficult. “Therefore, we have decided to enforce measures under the ‘very poor’ category of Grap,” said Gargava, adding that citizens will be asked to take certain measures such as providing electric heaters to security guards to stop them for burning biomass to keep themselves warm.In a statement the CAQM said, “Grap is in place and under implementation. A statutory sub-committee including experts has been constituted for its operationalisation and issuing necessary orders. The Grap specifically provides for the action to be taken by various agencies responsible for implementation under different AQI categories: moderate to poor, very poor, severe and emergency...The sub-committee is regularly holding meetings to take stock of the situation for appropriate intervention.”Gargava said that power agencies have been advised to ensure that 24x7 power supply is provided across Delhi-NCR to cut dependence on generator sets.However, several areas, especially in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh depend on high power diesel gensets for power back up, as power supply is patchy. In 2019 and 2020, the government of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had sought exemptions as many private housing societies in the two states completely depended on generator sets for their power supply.However, the CPCB has exempted the use of generators for emergency purposes such as medical services, elevators and escalators, railway, Metro and at airports.Senior municipal corporation officials said that they were yet to receive the CPCB order, adding that a similar order in 2017 led to chaos with people parking their vehicles on roads and pavements to avoid designated lots.A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official who oversees parking services said the four-fold hike could be counterproductive, saying in 2017 the hike led to chaotic traffic conditions had occurred and traffic jams in many areas. “A considerable portion of the authorised parking lots remained vacant,” he said.BS Vohra, president, East Delhi RWA Joint Front, said temperatures were yet to drop significantly, giving sufficient time to the residents bodies provide heaters to guards. He added, “Citizens are willing to fight pollution, but the government needs to come up with a long-term plan against the sources of pollution,” said Vohra.Experts said Grap measures must be implemented thoroughly.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said, “Everyone knows that Delhi sees the first instance of its worst pollution episodes after Diwali because of cracker bursting. This time around things could get worse because this will be around the same time that stubble burning instances peak. Agencies will have to ensure 100% boots on ground so that we can control the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grap-measures-in-delhi-diesel-gensets-banned-as-aqi-tanks-101635444108676.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Project to connect govt schools and parents launched in Delhi||The Delhi government on Thursday launched ‘Parents Samvad’, a programme aimed at increasing the engagement of parents in the education of their children in government schools. Over 35,000 school management committee members and school mitras will connect with 50 parents each every month, take feedback and make suggestions about parenting and studies via a free calling system.During the launch of the programme at Thyagaraj Stadium on Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the programme will improve communication between parents and schools. “During the pandemic, concerns arose about how to properly administer children’s education and how to overcome barriers to access online education. There were concerns about how to support children in stressful situations, as well as how to increase parents’ cooperation in education. The outreach programme arose as a solution,” said Sisodia.As part of the programme, every school management committee member and school mitra will connect with 50 parents in their immediate vicinity once a month. “SMC members and school mitras will receive theme-based training, and they will interact with other parents about parenting and education on the basis of one theme each month,” said a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/project-to-connect-govt-schools-and-parents-launched-in-delhi-101635443987976.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Murder suspect hurt after attack outside Delhi HC premises||A man involved in an attempt-to-murder case was injured after another person attacked him with a blade outside the Delhi high court in central Delhi on Thursday afternoon, police said. The attacker fled the crime scene, they added.One person, who was named in the complaint by the injured man, was detained for questioning in the evening, the Delhi police said.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said that the Tilak Marg police received a call regarding a blade injury to a client of an advocate at Delhi high court. A police team reached the spot and learnt that the injured man, Abid Khan, was accused in an attempt-to-murder case registered at the Govindpuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/murder-suspect-hurt-after-attack-outside-delhi-hc-premises-101635443809517.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police lift barricades at Tikri border after three women run over||The Delhi Police on Thursday started removing barricades at the Tikri border with Haryana, where farmers have been protesting for the past 11 months, to resume movement of vehicles on at least one carriageway, senior police officers privy to the development said.They, however, said that it was not immediately clear when the border will be completely opened.The development came on a day three women farmers were killed and two others injured after a truck hit them near the Tikri border.The accident took place on Thursday morning at Pakoda Chowk in Bahadurgarh, where the women were waiting for an autorickshaw to go to Bahadurgarh railway station. They had come to participate in the farmers’ protest, and were returning to their village in Punjab’s Mansa district .Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been protesting at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders in outer and eastern parts of Delhi against the three contentious farm laws since November last year.After the violence in Delhi during the farmers’ Republic Day (January 26) rally, the Delhi Police put in place multi-layered blockades at the three border protest sites by digging pits, placing iron nails and positioning iron barricades as well as concrete barriers.On Thursday, some video clips were shared on social media sites showing cranes breaking the concrete platforms and removing the jersey barriers installed on the Delhi side of the border.When asked for a confirmation, Delhi deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said, “We have started the process of removing the blockades with the objective of opening the border and resume traffic on at least one carriageway. We actually began this process a couple of days ago. As of now, we cannot say when exactly the restoration of traffic will happen because removing the entire blockade will take some time.”Police officers in know of the development said that senior officers are in talks with the farm leaders, as well their counterparts in Haryana Police on taking the final decision to open the border.They also attributed the removal of the blockades to the recent remarks that the Supreme Court made on blocking of the Delhi borders by the protesting farmers.Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, could not be reached for comment on the latest development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-lift-barricades-at-tikri-border-after-three-women-run-over-101635443689310.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Convict arrested for robbing businessman, brother at south Delhi hotel||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they arrested a 48-year-old murder convict and apprehended two of his juvenile associates for allegedly holding a businessman and his brother hostage in a CR Park hotel on October 25.The suspects robbed the two brothers of ₹8,000 and property documents and tried to extort them for ₹4 crore. They also forced them to sign some documents at gunpoint, police said.Police identified the arrested man as Vinay Kumar, a resident of Dwarka Sector-3. They said he was sentenced to life imprisonment in a double murder case in Rohini a few years ago. Kumar was out on parole due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker.DCP Jaiker said that on Monday, the two brothers called the CR Park Police and told them that they had been robbed of money, property documents and held hostage at gunpoint at a hotel earlier in the day.They said they had published a newspaper advertisement to sell their property in CR Park.They were contacted by Vinay Kumar who asked to meet them on Monday at a hotel in CR Park, DCP Jaiker said. At the hotel, the brothers were threatened with guns and knives, and subsequently robbed by Kumar and the two minors. Police arrested Kumar on Wednesday near the Dwarka court, where he was on his way to attend a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/convict-arrested-for-robbing-businessman-brother-at-south-delhi-hotel-101635443570853.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Ex-Tihar jail doctor denied treating Ankit Gujjar hours before death: CBI to HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday told the Delhi high court that a junior doctor, who Tihar jail officials claimed attended to gangster Ankit Gujjar hours before his death in prison, has denied visiting the deceased. The prison authorities said it subsequenlty sacked the contractual doctor for alleged negligence in treating Gujjar.In a status report filed before justice Mukta Gupta on Wednesday, the CBI also said they are examining online payments from Gujjar’s brother.Gujjar (29) was found dead in his cell in Tihar Jail on August 4, following which the mother moved court seeking a CBI enquiry. On September 8, the high court said that it was a clear case of custodial violence and transferred the probe to CBI from the local police.Pursuant to this, the CBI, in a status report before justice Mukta Gupta, said that it had examined the medical staff including the then junior resident and the medical officer on duty at the jail hospital on the intervening night of August 3-4.The agency said that the junior doctor had testified that he did not visit ward no 1 (where Gujjar was lodged) on the intervening night of August 3-4, adding that further investigation on this is underway.A status report filed by the jail authorities said that they cancelled the appointment of the junior doctor, a contract staff, due to negligence in Gujjar’s medical examination, and also initiated action against the medical officer. Jail officials have said that four prison officials, including deputy superintendent Narender Meena (who was allegedly involved in a fight with Gujjar on August 3), assistant superintendents Deepak Dabas and Balraj, and warder Shiva had been suspended after the incident.The reports by the authorities were filed in response to a plea by Gujjar’s mother, through advocate Mehmood Pracha, claiming that her son was being harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”.The agency said that during the investigation, Gujjar’s brother, Ankul, gave them the details of the various payments allegedly made to some persons, which have been scrutinised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/extihar-jail-doctor-denied-treating-ankit-gujjar-hours-before-death-cbi-to-hc-101635443327731.html
29-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi sex ratio up to 933 females per 1,000 males: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that the sex ratio has improved in Delhi -- from 920 females per 1,000 males in 2019 to 933 females per 1,000 males in 2020.“There has been a positive change in sex ratio in Delhi due to the (Arvind) Kejriwal government’s efforts. According to the annual report of the Directorate of Economics and Statistics of the Delhi government , sex ratio in Delhi increased to 933 females per 1,000 males in 2020, as against 920 per 1,000 males in 2019. Increase in sex ratio is the result of social awareness. It is a matter of great pride that our society is more educated now and they understand the importance of girl child even better,” said Sisodia in a press statement.Sex ratio is usually used as a yardstick to assess gender-based sex selection in a certain region.In Delhi’s case, sex-ratio witnessed consistent fall between 2014 and 2017. Government data showed, it was recorded at 876 (females per 1,000 males) in 2014, 869 in 2015, 857 in 2016 and 850 in 2017, before rising to 899 in 2018 and 920 in 2019.In 2020, the Central government issued a notice to the Delhi government, flagging the low sex ratio along with other states, including Bihar, Karnataka, Odisha and Uttarakhand.While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power in 2015 and started cracking down on facilities and individuals enabling sex selection, its effects became visible only in 2019 in terms of sharp improvement in the sex ratio numbers, said senior officials in health department.On Thursday, Sisodia also highlighted trends such as decrease in infant mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, birth rate and death rate which, he said, indicates improvement in Delhi’s health infrastructure.“There has also been a reduction in infant mortality rate in Delhi from 24.19 (per 1,000 live births) in 2019 to 20.37 in 2020. The reduction in infant mortality is the result of great changes in health infrastructure and better access to health facilities to all citizens. The maternal mortality rate in Delhi has also decreased. The maternal mortality rate was 0.55 (per 1,000 births) in 2019; it fell to 0.54 in 2020,” said Sisodia.“In Delhi, public awareness efforts have also yielded benefits. In Delhi, the birth rate fell from 18.35 (per 1,000 population) in 2019 to 14.85 in 2020. In 2020, a number of 301,645 births were registered, compared to 365,868 in 2019... According to the data, the death rate has decreased from 7.29 (per 1,000 population) in 2019 to 7.03 in 2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sex-ratio-improves-to-933-females-per-1-000-malessisodia-101635442967862.html
29-10-2021||Gurugram||500 cops to guard namaz spots in Gurugram||Around 500 police personnel will be deployed at five spots where Muslims offer namaz (prayers) in the city on Friday following threats from rightwing Hindu groups to disrupt public order if prayers are offered in the open.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that following clear instructions from the chief minister on the matter, the police will ensure there is no disruption to the ongoing arrangements. “All the police teams have been directed to take strict action against those who try to harass anyone offering namaz,” he said.In 2018, the district administration designated 37 sites in the city for Muslims to offer Friday prayers following which there were protests by a consortium of Hindu groups.Earlier this year, a fringe group again started staging protests, which intensified in September at one of the sites in Sector 47.Residents and locals joined the protest, chanting Hindu prayers at the time of namaz on consecutive Fridays over the past two weeks.On October 26, a consortium of Hindu groups, under the banner of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner stating that they would not tolerate Friday prayers in the open.However, officials said they are prepared to tackle any issue and that ongoing arrangements would continue.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that they have assigned duties (to check law and order) and deployed duty magistrates at all sensitive spots. “We are have elaborate security arrangements and will ensure safety and security of people offering namaz,” he said.According to the police, crime investigation agency (CIA) teams will also be deployed at the spots from early morning Friday to keep a close watch on the movement of people visiting the area.Members of Muslim groups said that there is need for police protection at five designated prayer sites, at DLF Phase-3, Sector 12A, Sector 14, Sector 56 and Sector 47. They have called more people from neighbouring Nuh and Pataudi for support.Haji Shehzad Khan, the chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, said, “If they (Hindu groups) shout slogans, we will not sit silent. We don’t want to disturb law and order situation, but if they target us, we will not sit quiet,” he said.Khan said that following protests by residents, the site at Sector 47 was reallocated to another in Sector 12A but protests continued. “We don’t want any confrontation and conflict; we are ready to relocate to another place provided the administration can guarantee peace,” he said.Meanwhile, Arya Kendriya Sabha, a central organisation of Arya Samaj branches, submitted a memorandum to the district administration on Thursday demanding a complete ban on namaz in the open. “We demand a complete ban on namaz in the open to maintain peace and harmony in the city,” said Laxman Pahuja, a member.Pahuja said they will protest in large numbers on Friday, in an attempt to disrupt the prayers.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that more than 500 police personnel are deployed at five spots and those trying to disrupt prayers will be arrested. “We will not allow anyone to disrupt the Friday prayers and we will not let people to take the law into their hands,” he said.In a related incident on Thursday, a furniture shop owner in Sector 12 complained to the police of prayers being forcefully offered in front of his shop.Mehmood Khan, a businessman who runs a furniture shop in Sector 12, alleged that last Friday, residents and fringe groups staged a protest against namaz in an open area. “A group of Muslims has been offering namaz in front of my furniture shop for the past few months. I had requested maulvi in the past not to conduct Friday prayers here, but they ignored my request stating that they were not offering prayer on private land but on government land,” he said.A complaint in this regard was lodged at the Sector 14 police station. However, no case was registered till Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/friday-namaz-500-cops-to-be-deployed-warn-of-strict-action-against-disruptive-elements-101635438169380.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in: Woman, 2 students fall into 15-ft crater, rescued||In a shocking incident, two siblings, on their way to school on a two-wheeler, and a pedestrian found themselves falling down a 15-feet deep and as wide chasm, which abruptly opened as a major portion of the road in Deep Nagar caved in on Thursday. It was a close shave for the pedestrian – a maid, who managed to pull herself out of the crater with the help of pipes – and the siblings whom locals rescued with the help of a ladder. The students, Mahi Malhotra, 16, and Kanav Malhotra, 11, were rushed to the hospital and are said to be in a stable condition. Their two-wheeler ( an Activa) was completely submerged in sewer water and was pulled out with the help of a JCB, seven hours after the mishap. CCTV footage of the incident, which has been widely circulated on social media, shows that the road caved in just after a school bus crossed the area, near Dandi Swami Chowk, around 8am. The road collapsed so abruptly that the students who were at the brink of the chasm were caught unwares and were unable to save themselves, while the two-wheeler behind them was able to apply the brake in time. Incidentally, the students are relatives of municipal corporation assistant town planner Satish Malhotra and the cave-in took place just 50m from the old residence of mayor Balkar Sandhu, who also arrived at the spot.An eyewitness, Harinder Singh, said, “Fortunately, sewer water did not accumulate in the crater, otherwise the students could have drowned. I was around 40-50m away from the spot when I heard the students scream. Fortunately, a major tragedy was averted.”Municipal corporation sub divisional officer Anshul Garcha said the civic body is investigating the matter and the cause for the road collapse is yet to be ascertained. “Underground wires could be seen. It is suspected that they may have damaged the sewer lines, resulting in leakage and soil erosion. We are repairing the road.” The cave-in was reported in a congested area with a residential-cum-commercial building on one side of the damaged road portion. The building was vacant, while shops have been closed as residents fear that the foundation of the building may have been damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-close-shave-for-students-as-two-wheeler-plunges-into-15-ft-crater-101635422806586.html
29-10-2021||Chandigarh||India ready for any challenge, only strong respected: Defence minister||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that India is a peace-loving country but is ready to face any challenge and the nation’s scientific community is producing the finest defence technology in this endeavour. Addressing staff at the Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratory (TBRL) in Panchkula after inaugurating an augmented environmental test facility, Rajnath Singh said, “It is against our values to start a conflict. But if need be, our country is ready to face any challenge. Only the strong are respected.” Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who accompanied the defence minister, said, “We have challenges at our borders and to meet them, we need technology. Our adversaries are using technology in warfare. We also need to do so.” Besides General Rawat, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, the secretary in the Department of Defence R&D and chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO); Air Marshal Sandeep Singh, the vice-chief of air staff; Dr BHVS Narayana Murthy, director general, missile and strategic system; and Dr Tessy Thomas, director general, Aero, also accompanied the defence minister. Milestone to make India self-reliant Rajnath Singh recalled that in August 2021, he had handed over the indigenously developed and produced multi-mode hand grenade to the Indian Army. This grenade, designed and developed by TBRL, was the first munition that was produced by a private industry, a transfer of technology (TOT) holder of DRDO and inducted into the Indian armed forces. “The safety and performance parameters of this grenade make it truly world class and it has achieved the functional reliability of more than 99.5% in production. This is a clear demonstration of capabilities of our scientists and the production agency,” Singh said. He appreciated the role TBRL and DRDO for this achievement and mentioned that it is an important milestone to make India self-reliant in defence production. He also indicated that indigenous systems would keep getting inducted regularly. “Moreover, the active participation of industry, specifically the private sector, in manufacturing these products with DRDO technologies is the strength, both military and economic, that would make our country aatmanirbhar (self-reliant),” said Singh. TBRL one-stop solution for trials He said that the test facilities at TBRL are being extended to Indian industries, R&D institutions and academia to support the Make in India initiative. He stressed that the TBRL can provide one-stop solution for static and dynamic trials of all munitions and warheads in addition to its core capability of design and development of warheads, munitions and its sub-systems. On this occasion, transfer of technology for the TBRL developed warhead for MPATGM Mk-II was handed over to Economic Explosive Ltd, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/india-ready-for-any-challenge-only-strong-respected-defence-minister-101635418846275.html
