30-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Students move court as private schools deny transfer letter||The local education department is flooded with complaints from students who migrated from private schools to government schools in the district, accusing their former alma mater of withholding their documents including, school transfer certificate (STC), character certificate, and detailed mark sheets.Around 184 cases came to the fore wherein students of Classes 8 to 12, who migrated from private schools to the government schools, were denied school transfer documents by their previous schools due to non-payment of the dues. Many students adopted the legal course and have moved the court. The district education department has made a special committee to deal with such complaints.The designated team is conducting talks with the concerned private schools and requesting them to release the school leaving certificates. Around 100 complaints have been settled after the intervention of the committee to date.Other than the 184 cases, 12 complaints have been forwarded to the district education officer by the local deputy commissioner’s office. These include complaints of students who have passed Class 12 but are struggling to get their TC. In one such case, the father of a student submitted before a local court that his daughter had passed both Classes 10 and 12 from a private school, but the school was not releasing her Class 12 detailed mark sheets and the character certificate. The school, according to the father, is demanding ₹1.50 lakh dues in lieu of the documents.According to the officials, most of these students got admissions in the government schools after an order released by the former education secretary, schools, dated August 7, 2020, which stated that even in case a private school refuses to issue the STC to a student, heads of the government schools can admit the pupil after doing self-verification.“Admissions were done adhering to the orders of the secretary. Another order was later released directing the government schools to admit the students after taking all the documents from them including STC”, informed an official.He added, “When we sought STC from the students who migrated from the private schools, the schools denied issuing the same contending that the students have not cleared their dues. These certificates are even required during job interviews.”A list of over 150 private schools including MGM Public School, Dugri, BVM School, Sector 32-A, Jamalpur, Venus International Public School, Sai senior secondary Public School, Lucky Model School, Starex Public School, Dashmesh Public Senior Secondary School, Decent Public School, Arya Girls Senior Secondary School, and Orient Convent School, was submitted with the department by the committee. A few private schools have written to the department expressing displeasure against the admissions given to their students in the government schools without taking TC from them.A senior officer, on the condition of anonymity, said most of the PSEB affiliated private schools have issued STC to the students after mediation by the committee. Meanwhile, the CBSE schools are still reluctant to release the documents without clearance of dues.DEO Lakhbir Singh said that the committee formed in this regard is working efficiently, and soon students will get their TC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianastudents-move-court-as-private-schools-deny-transfer-letter-101635618361059.html
30-10-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata man dials police after murdering wife, stabbing daughter||A 47-year-old man, who was in financial distress because of the pandemic and lockdown, allegedly murdered his wife and stabbed his 18-year-old daughter at his residence in south Kolkata on late Saturday evening, police said. He then dialled 100 to inform the police. Police detained the accused named Arvind Bajaj for questioning. The victims were rushed to the hospital where Priyanka Bajaj, 44, was declared dead. The victim’s daughter, Advika Bajaj, had to be admitted and was battling for her life till reports last came in. A senior official said, “The man was working with his father-in-law, who owns a business dealing with building materials. Ever since the pandemic hit and the lockdown was declared, the business was suffering. Bajaj was under financial distress.”It was around 8:30 pm on Saturday that the police received a call from Bajaj in which he confessed that he had stabbed his wife and daughter with a kitchen knife. Adhika was a student and was preparing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). When police rushed to the spot, the victims were lying in a pool of blood and the accused was present at the spot. Neighbours said that the accused hardly used to interact with them even though his wife sometimes used to talk to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-man-dials-police-after-murdering-wife-stabbing-daughter-101635618244703.html
30-10-2021||Other||High voting seals fate of Huzurabad candidates||Barring a few incidents of minor skirmishes between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and Bharatiya Janata Party cadres, the polling in the by-election to Huzurabad assembly constituency went on peacefully.According to the latest Election Commission bulletin, the constituency witnessed a record turnout of 86 per cent of voters. There had been brisk polling all over the constituency since morning with people making beelines at every polling station.“Those who were already in the queue at the time of closing hours were allowed to cast their vote. Similarly, special arrangements have been made for Covid-19 patients, if any, to exercise their franchise till 7 pm,” Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said.The polling percentage, therefore, is expected to go up further after 7 pm. The final polling figures would be disclosed only after collecting the data from all the 306 polling stations, he said.While former state health minister Eatala Rajender, whose resignation from the assembly seat led to the by-election in Huzurabad, is fighting the by-election on the BJP ticket, ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi has fielded its student wing leader Gellu Srinivasa Yadav. The Congress also fielded its state NSUI president Balmuri Venkat.In the morning, there were reports of clashes between the TRS and the BJP cadres over the distribution of money among the voters. The BJP workers prevented TRS leader P Kaushik Reddy from entering the polling booths at a couple of villages for allegedly influencing the voters.Similarly, the TRS cadres obstructed BJP leader Tula Uma from entering some polling booths. The timely intervention of the police officials brought the situation to normal.Goel, who inspected some of the polling stations in Kamalapur village, said the polling was largely peaceful. He said he had received as many as 88 complaints about alleged malpractices in the Huzurabad by-poll and the election observers were looking into the same. “If any of these complaints are proved true, we shall take appropriate action, even after the declaration of results,” he said.Badvel bypollMeanwhile, polling in the by-elections to Badvel assembly constituency in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district began on a dull note but picked up later in the afternoon.By the closing hours, 68.12 per cent of polling was reported from 281 polling stations in the constituency, EC officials said, adding that it might go up by four to five per cent after all those who were standing in the queue cast their votes till 7 pm.Andhra Pradesh chief electoral officer K Vijayanand said there were no incidents of any clashes or untoward incidents in the polling and everything went off peacefully. “There were troubles in three Electronic Voting Machines in the morning and they were immediately rectified,” he said.BJP Rajya Sabha MP C M Ramesh said the ruling YSR Congress party indulged in malpractices in the polling by enrolling fake voters and impersonation. However, the CEO said there were no written complaints from anybody in this regard.The YSRC has fielded Dasari Sudha, widow of former MLA G Venkata Subbaiah, whose sudden death in March necessitated the by-poll in Badvel. While the main opposition TDP opted out of the contest, BJP fielded its senior leader Panthala Suresh and the Congress its former MLA P M Kamalamma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-voting-seals-fate-of-huzurabad-candidates-101635618242448.html
30-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu Day to be marked on July 18: CM Stalin||Reversing a previous AIADMK government’s decision, the ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu on Saturday said the state’s Formation Day will now be celebrated on July 18, in lines with the rechristening of its name to the present one and not on November 1.Chief minister M K Stalin’s announcement in this connection drew the AIADMK’s criticism, which alleged it was done due to “political vendetta.” K Palaniswami, as chief minister in 2019, had announced Tamil Nadu Day will be observed on November 1 following requests from various quarters then.On Saturday, chief minister Stalin said that on November 1, 1956, linguistic reorganisation of states was done in the country following which parts of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala “went away” from the then Madras State.Subsequently, the previous government had announced November 1 from 2019 as Tamil Nadu Day, he recalled.However, various sections including political parties, Tamil scholars, activists and associations have been insisting that November 1 would only signify the “border struggle” and that it would not be appropriate to celebrate the day as Tamil Nadu Day, he said in a statement.They had suggested that July 18-- when Tamil Nadu got its present name following an assembly legislation heralded by Dravidian veteran and late chief minister CN Annadurai, should be the day to be celebrated as the state’s formation day, he added.“After carefully considering the pleas of various organisations, a Government Order will soon be issued to celebrate July 18, when mother Tamil Nadu was named as Tamil Nadu by Anna,” as the state’s formation day, the CM added.Further, as a special gesture, 110 people involved in the “border struggle” will be honoured with ₹one lakh each on November 1, he said.The AIADMK lashed out at the government’s decision to change the state’s formation day celebrations.Just because Palaniswami had announced that November 1 will be celebrated as Tamil Nadu Day, “I condemn portraying history according to your convenience (due to) political vendetta,” party spokesperson Kovai Sathyan said in a tweet, tagging Stalin and top party leaders O Panneerselvam and Palaniswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-day-to-be-marked-on-july-18-cm-stalin-101635618240989.html
30-10-2021||Other||NEET aspirant dies by suicide in Tamil Nadu fearing poor result: Cops||Apprehensive over the outcome of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), a 20-year old medical aspirant allegedly died by suicide in Coimbatore district, police said.The aspirant from Sangarayapuram had appeared for the entrance exam held in September for the third time, results of which are expected in a couple of days.According to police, the youngster had taken up the test in 2019 and 2020, but could not clear. So he tried his luck for the third time this year.With National Testing Agency publishing the answer key, the aspirant was said to be upset and told his parents that he may not be able to clear the test this year also, police said.Despite the advice from his parents to wait for the results, the aspirant allegedly consumed pesticides on Friday afternoon and was admitted to Pollachi Government hospital. The doctors attending to the youngster referred him to the government hospital in Coimbatore, where he died at night, police said.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neetaspirant-dies-by-suicide-in-tamil-nadu-fearing-poor-resultcops-101635618186978.html
30-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka allows sale of green crackers ahead of Diwali||The Karnataka government on Saturday issued an order allowing the sale and bursting of only green crackers during this Diwali, and advised people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 norms.“Other than green crackers that have been permitted by the Supreme Court in its directions, no other crackers can be sold or burst,” an order signed by chief secretary P Ravi Kumar said.Stating that sellers who have taken necessary permits from departments and authorities concerned can only sell green crackers, it said. Stalls selling green crackers can be opened only between November 1 to 10.Green cracker stalls can be temporarily opened only at place and on dates mentioned in the permit, the order said, adding that stalls should be opened away from residential areas and in open grounds, apart from ensuring adequate ventilation a distance of 6 metres should be maintained between two cracker stalls.The order also mandates stalls to follow Covid-19 regulations such as maintaining a six feet distance between customers, thermal screening, wearing masks and sanitisation. Also, it should be ensured that there is no crowding while purchasing.Meanwhile, the Karnataka State Fire and Emergency Services has advised safety measures such as allowing children to light fireworks under the supervision of adult members, hold sparklers away from the body and not light crackers at home.It also advised people to immediately contact fire control 101 in case of an emergency, and urged people to be sensitive to infants, aged, sick and animals, apart from not lighting loud fireworks near hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-allows-sale-of-green-crackers-ahead-of-diwali-101635618181061.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Will follow Supreme Court’s order on Rohingya: Karnataka in affidavit||In less than three weeks after the Karnataka government told the Supreme Court that it does not intend to deport or take any coercive action against Rohingya Muslims, the state government has filed a fresh affidavit, leaving it open for the court to determine the action to be taken against these refugees.The change of stand became visible when the state filed its second affidavit in response to a petition filed by a lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay on October 26. The petition sought an order from the court to identify, detain and deport illegal immigrants and infiltrators including Bangladeshis and Rohingyas within a year.The new affidavit filed by KN Vanaja, Under secretary in the state department of home, disclosed that a total of 126 Rohingyas have been identified in the state who are not staying in any camp or detention centre. “This respondent undertakes that whatever the order that would be passed by this Court will be scrupulously adhered and followed in its letter and spirit,” the affidavit said.What this affidavit lacked was the clear assertion made by the state in its previous affidavit filed on October 7 responding to the same petition where it was said, “72 Rohingyas identified in Bengaluru city are working in various fields and Bengaluru city police have not taken any coercive action against them as of now and there is no immediate plan of deporting them.” This affidavit was filed by YS Chandrashekhara, police inspector in the office of Director General and Inspector General of Police.This response by the Basavaraj Bommai-led government of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) did evoke an element of surprise as the national party in power at the Centre had taken a firm stand against the continuation of Rohingya immigrants in the country. In an affidavit filed September 2017, in response to a petition filed by two Rohingya immigrants seeking refugee status, the Ministry of Home Affairs said, “Continuance of Rohingyas’ illegal immigration into India and their continued stay has serious national security ramifications and threats.”The affidavit had then estimated there are over 40,000 Rohingyas Muslims in the country and disclosed that intelligence inputs gathered against them pointed out their links with Pakistan-based terror organizations and who are indulging in anti-national activities such as mobilization of funds through hawala channels, procuring fake identities and indulging in human trafficking.It was for this reason, Upadhyay in his petition filed in 2017 demanded the Centre and state governments to amend their laws to make illegal immigration and infiltration a cognizable, non-bailable and non-compoundable offence. In addition, he sought directions from the Court to declare the preparation of forged/fabricated PAN Cards, AADHAR cards, Passport, ration cards and Voter I-cards and such other identity documents a non-bailable, non-compoundable offence.The earlier response by Karnataka urged for dismissal of the petition by saying, “The Petition is devoid of merits. Hence, the petition is liable to be dismissed.” However, the recent affidavit has steered clear of this stand and has left it to the courts for deciding the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-follow-supreme-court-s-order-on-rohingya-karnataka-in-affidavit-101635618122482.html
30-10-2021||Bangalore||84% voter turnout in Hangal, 69% in Sindgi; polling ends peacefully||Voting for the bypolls to Sindgi and Hangal assembly constituencies in Karnataka concluded on Saturday without any untoward incidents being reported. A total of 19 candidates are in the fray in the two constituencies, including six from Sindgi and 13 from Hangal. The polling began at 7 am and concluded at 7 pm. Late on Saturday night, officials of the State Election Commission said that the approximate voter turnout at 7 pm was 69% in Sindgi and 84% in Hangal. “Details will be updated soon,” read the Commission communication. While the Commission is yet to release final voter turnout at the two constituencies, as per the figures at 5 pm, Sindgi reported 64.54% voter turnout and Hangal 70.76%. According to State Election Commission data, Sindgi had recorded 71.43% turnout in the state assembly elections in 2018 and 59.83% during the parliamentary elections. Similarly, Hangal recorded 84.40% voting during the 2018 assembly election and 80.80% turnout in the parliamentary elections in 2019. The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindagi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP’s C M Udasi from Hangal. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindagi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency. The Congress named M C Managuli’s son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindagi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal. The JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindgi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. This is the first electoral challenge for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. In the high-pitched campaigning, which lasted for over 15 days, all the three major parties- BJP, Congress and the JD(S)- spared no opportunity to attack each other on various platforms and issues in an election which Bommai said would become an indicator of what the state can expect in the 2023 assembly elections. For the last 10 days, the chief minister has left no stone unturned to ensure a victory in the two bypoll-bound constituencies--Sindgi and Hangal--with the latter seat turning into a prestige issue as it comes under his home district Haveri. The Congress, by ensuring a win, wants to give momentum for its preparations in the run up to 2023 assembly polls in the state, while the JD(S) is looking to retain Sindgi seat and thereby prove that it still commands a support base in the northern districts. Congress leaders have alleged that the JD(S) deliberately fielded minority candidates for the Hangal and Sindgi by-elections to help the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/84-voter-turnout-in-hangal-69-in-sindgi-polling-ends-peacefully-101635618121013.html
30-10-2021||Pune||PMC floats tender for priority stretch of Mula-Mutha riverfront project||Following approval of the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project in the monthly general body meeting on Monday, the corporation floated the Rs305 crore first tender of the project for the priority stretch between Sangamwadi and Bundgarden bridge (Yerawada). The total project cost is an estimated Rs4,727 crore. Five years ago when the project was first proposed, the total cost was around Rs2,619 crore.Mangesh Dighe, environment officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “We have estimated a cost of Rs305 crore for the stretch between Sangamwadi and Bundgarden bridge. It is part of the 7 km stretch between Sangamwadi and Mundhwa. We are now working on the remaining stretch between Bundgarden bridge and Mundhwa.”The Mula-Mutha riverfront development project will be executed in 11 stretches. As per the proposal sanctioned in the general body meeting, the corporation will spend Rs700 crore on the first few stretches after which, the project will be implemented on public private partnership (PPP) basis. Of the 11 stretches, Sangamwadi to Bundgarden bridge (3 km) accounts for nine stretches. The corporation has decided to start work on the priority stretch between Sangamwadi and Mundhwa at an estimated cost of Rs700 crore. The riverfront development project includes river edge protection, interceptor sewage network, water replenishment, promenade finishing works, public access and ghats, landscapes, public amenities, roads and bridges and urban infrastructure. The largest share of the project (Rs1,245 crore) will be dedicated to river edge protection for which the PMC will spend Rs234 crore.Estimated cost of Rs20 crore per kmAccording to civic officials, the Mula-Mutha flows for 44 km through the PMC, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), Khadki and Pune cantonment areas. The PMC will have to spend Rs20 crore per kilometre for development of the riverfront. It will take more than five years to complete the project. There is 650 hectare land available for developing the green belt of the river which will be given to private players to get funds for the project. Out of the 650 hectare, only 75 hectare belongs to the government and the rest is private land. Hence, the PMC will get money in development charges from development of the land around the river.Priority stretches of the riverfront development projectMundhwa bridge to Mundhwa Jackwell (Kharadi) – approximately 3 kmBundgarden bridge to Sangamwadi bridge – approximately 4 km||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-floats-tender-for-priority-stretch-of-mula-mutha-riverfront-project-101635617642328.html
30-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana education department grilled for not providing textbooks||The local education officials were grilled for not providing textbooks to the students enrolled with the government schools in the district during a meeting with ADC (general) Rahul Chaba and the members of Sikhya Sudhar Committee, Ludhiana, on Friday.The Punjab School Education Board students, who are yet to receive the NCERT textbooks, are left with no other option but to buy subject guides as there’s hardly any time left for the commencement of their final board exams. Their families are bearing the financial brunt of the delay in textbook distribution.Meanwhile, district education officer Lakhbir Singh Samra cited the record of the surplus books with the department during the meeting. Jatinder Saluja, a member of the Sikhya Sudhar Committee, countered his claims by naming the schools where the students are still waiting to get the books. “It is strange that with exams around the corner, the students are yet to get the books from the education department. The DEO showed us the list of surplus books, but I know many students in schools including, Kot Mangal Singh GHS, who have not got them,” said Saluja.Many students, who had migrated from private schools to government schools, didn’t get complete sets of books.An education department official said that books on a few subjects including maths and science are required in the schools. “We have surplus books on many subjects, but we require more science and maths books. We have sought surplus books from the other districts. The books will soon be distributed as per the requirement,” he added. The committee members also condemned the DEO for not taking any action against the leakage of question papers of the PSEB mid-term examination for Classes 6 to 12 last month. He said the matter concerned the state, and he was not authorized to take any action.The DEO further said that he has already informed the higher authorities regarding the same.The issue of shortage of teachers in government schools was also flagged. The committee members suggested that the teachers should be transferred from the schools where there are more of them to schools with a shortage of staff. Meanwhile, the ADC directed the block officers to carry the data of the requirements in the schools located in their respective blocks in the next meeting scheduled next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-education-department-grilled-for-not-providing-textbooks-101635617641014.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Ex-employee of cow shelter arrested for killing 54 cattle||A 22-year-old former employee of a gaushala was arrested on Saturday for allegedly poisoning 28 cows and 26 calves to death in Khodna Khurd village in Greater Noida's Surajpur last week. The suspect Dharmendra, a resident of the same village, was sacked one month ago because he was a drug addict and involved in petty crimes, said his employer. The suspect had bought poison from Dadri and mixed in the fodder to take revenge from his employer. The complainant Omveer Singh, 45, said that he owned 30 cows and 26 calves in his gaushala in the village. “I had hired Dharmendra one year ago for caretaking of the cattle. However, one month ago I sacked him because he was a drug addict and he stole people’s valuables. He had been nurturing a grudge against me since then,” he said. Singh said that from October 22, 2021, the cows and calves started felling unwell and started dying mysteriously. Ajay Kumar, SHO Surajpur police station, said that Singh had performed the last rites of some of the dead cattle. “But the cows and calves started dying one after another. Singh then called a veterinary doctor who examined the cattle and said they have been poisoned. But in the last few days 28 cows and 26 calves had died,” SHO said. Singh then informed police on Friday. A police team reached the spot and launched an investigation. “We found a suspicious slipper in the gaushala. The complainant informed police that the slipper belongs to his former employee, Dharmendra, who was sacked recently. The police then picked up Dharmendra who admitted to have committed the crime,” he said. The suspect revealed that he had developed ill-will against his employer after he was sacked. “He had visited Dadri market and bought a packet of poisonous substance – Chu Mantar – and mixed it in the cattle fodder. While fleeing the spot, his slipper was left behind,” said SHO. A case has been registered against him under Sections 3 and 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, and Sections 3 and 8 of Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter. Act. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” police said. The complainant said he suffered nearly ₹10 lakh loss in this incident. A 22-year-old former employee of a gaushala was arrested on Saturday for allegedly poisoning 28 cows and 26 calves to death in Khodna Khurd village in Surajpur last week.The suspect -- identified as Dharmendra -- a resident of Khodna Khurd village, was sacked a month ago because he was a drug addict and was involved in petty crimes, according to his employer. Following this, Dharmendra bought poison from Dadri and mixed it in the fodder to take revenge from his employer.The complainant -- Omveer Singh, 45 -- said that he had 30 cows and 26 calves in his gaushala, and suffered nearly a ₹10 lakh loss in the incident. “I had hired Dharmendra one year ago for maintenance of the cattle. However, I sacked him a month ago after finding out that he was a drug addict and he had stolen valuables of people (which people? other employees?). After that, he had been nurturing a grudge against me,” he said.According to Singh, the cows and calves started falling unwell from October 22, 2021, and dying mysteriously.Ajay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Surajpur police station, said, “The cows and calves started dying one after the other. That is when, Singh called a veterinary doctor who examined the cattle and said that they were poisoned. But in the last few days, 28 cows and 26 calves died,” Kumar said.Singh then informed the police on Friday, and a police team launched an investigation in the matter. “We found a suspicious slipper in the gaushala. The complainant informed the police that the slipper belonged to one of his former employees -- Dharmendra -- who was sacked recently. The police detained Dharmendra and he admitted to have committed the crime during questioning,” Kumar added.“Dharmendra visited a Dadri market and bought a packet of poisonous substance -- Chu Mantar -- and mixed it in the cattle fodder. He left behind his slipper while escaping the gaushala,” he said.A case has been registered against Dharmendra under sections 3 and 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, and sections 3 and 8 of the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act at the Surajpur police station on Saturday.“The suspect was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” said a police official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-ex-employee-of-cow-shelter-arrested-for-killing-54-cattle-101635617401158.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Vax stats: Over 41% of Lucknow has taken both shots||Over 41% of eligible Lucknowites are now fully vaccinated, having taken both doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine, data from the health department read on Saturday.In all 14,77,000 people had been given the second dose of the vaccine in Lucknow, while 30,94,743 people have taken their first dose since vaccination began on January 16. “Focus on the second dose has been increased and for the entire November, special drives will be conducted to vaccinate people due to take their second dose of the vaccine,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow.According to the data, 28.91 lakh doses have been administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age and 10.85 lakh to people between 45 and 60 years, while 5.96 lakh doses were given to those above 60 years. Among the beneficiaries over 25.02 lakh are men and over 20.68 lakh are females.“Lucknow is leading in vaccination numbers with the maximum doses administered among all districts in the state but being the state capital and having a major inflow from other districts, it is significant to cover all with complete vaccination as soon as possible,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.Vaccination of the elderly is behind other age groups particularly in the rural areas. Experts say commuting is a major issue for the elderly, many of whom are not even coming out of their houses since the pandemic started troubling people.According to officials, a cluster approach in anti-Covid-19 vaccinations will start from November 1 and shall focus primarily on the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vax-stats-over-41-of-lucknow-has-taken-both-shots-101635617220817.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Court rejects Sachin Vaze’s plea to stay production warrant in extortion case||A magistrate court on Saturday dismissed a plea to stay a production warrant issued against former Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze in an extortion case, news agency PTI reported. While giving its order, the court noted that the accused cannot directly approach the court with a petition, saying that he must not be produced before it.Notably, the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday permitted the Mumbai Police to take custody of the dismissed cop for interrogation in the matter registered at Goregaon police station. According to the PTI report, the special court directed that prison authorities hand over Vaze’s custody to the city police’s crime branch on November 1, and take the same back after he is produced before the magistrate court.In his plea, Vaze alleged that he is yet to completely recover from his complex heart surgery that was done in September, and has been advised to follow certain dos and don’ts.However, lawyer Shekhar Jagtap, who appeared for Mumbai Police, objected to the plea application on grounds that there is no provision in the CrPC to stay a production warrant.Also Read | Suspended cop Sachin Vaze dismissed from service, say Mumbai PoliceThe court while rejecting Vaze’s plea stated that according to CrPC provisions, the officer in-charge of prison may refrain from carrying out the production warrant on the ground of illness or infirmity of the person, unfit to be removed from the prison. But, the court added, the jail authorities hadn’t intimated it about such a scenario.The magistrate court also said that the officer probing the extortion case reserves the authority to decide the place where Vaze will be questioned by Mumbai Police.Notably, Vaze is currently lodged in Taloja jail, and is an accused in the Antilia bomb scare case and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren.Last month, the special NIA court had rejected the former Mumbai cop’s plea to be kept in house custody for the next three months following his heart surgery, which was conducted on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-rejects-sachin-vaze-s-plea-to-stay-production-warrant-in-extortion-case-101635616819083.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Property dealer killed in SUV in Greater Noida, one held||A 40-year-old property dealer was allegedly shot dead by three miscreants in his SUV in Greater Noida West on Friday night. Police said they have arrested one of the suspects in connection with the murder. The deceased was identified as Manjeet Singh, a native of Kheda Dharampura village in Badalpur area of Greater Noida. Police said that Manjeet, who was presently living in Antriksh Golf View in Noida’s Sector 78, was killed over a property dispute. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said the Bisrakh police received information around 10pm that a man was shot dead in a Mahindra Scorpio near the Ek Murti roundabout in Greater Noida West. “A police team reached the spot and found a man dead near his SUV. A liquor bottle, two glasses and leftover food were found from the vehicle,” he said. Manjeet received five bullet injuries and died on the spot, police said, adding they scanned his call records and found that a person named Yashpal,45, was in touch with him on Friday night. “When we questioned Yashpal, he admitted to have committed the murder with the help of two accomplices. Primary investigation suggests that Manjeet and Yashpal were involved in property dealing. They had some dispute over commission for facilitating the sale of a property. On Friday night, Manjeet reached the spot in his SUV while Yashpal and two others reached there in another car. Manjeet and Yashpal were drinking in the SUV while two others were standing outside. The victim and the suspect had a heated argument over the property issue, after which Yashpal and his accomplices shot him dead,” Chander said. Police conducted a search and arrested Yashpal from Greater Noida. Yashpal owned four licensed revolvers and police have seized three of them, the officials said. According to police, Manjeet was a history sheeter and six criminal cases, including a murder case, were registered against him in Noida. On the basis of a complaint by the victim’s family, a case was registered against the suspects under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian penal Code on Friday night, police said, adding that they have launched a search to arrest the other two suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/property-dealer-killed-in-suv-in-greater-noida-one-held-101635617160912.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Vehicular traffic yet to resume at UP Gate site||Traffic movement is yet to be regularised on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway even after the removal of police barricades from the UP Gate flyover on Friday, officials said on Saturday. Officials of the Ghaziabad traffic police said that they will allow traffic movement from Ghaziabad to Delhi only when the farmers vacate the UP Gate site, where farmers have been protesting against the three controversial farm laws since November 2020. They have been occupying the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway and erecting dais and temporary tents there since December 3 last year. They have been demanding rollback of the three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.“The farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws for the past 11 months, and the agitation will continue. The Delhi Police has removed the barricades and the road is now open. But the traffic movement has not resumed as the Ghaziabad traffic police has not allowed commuters from Ghaziabad along the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway. Farmers intend to go to Delhi and the farmers’ umbrella body -- Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- is holding discussions over the developments related to the removal of barricades,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP Gate site spokesperson of SKM.In a statement on Saturday, the SKM said that it has always maintained that the police have been blocking the roads near the protest site and the hasty removal of barricades clearly vindicates the stand of the protesting farmers.“The SKM clarified that it has allowed a two-way movement of traffic near the morcha (protest) sites in the past and will do so in the future too. If the central government wants to open the passage completely, it also has to open the passage to fulfill the demands of the farmers. Whether the farmers will continue their agitation at the same location or move it to Delhi is a collective decision which will be taken at an appropriate time,” the SKM said in a statement.Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), said that although the flyover area is not barricaded, commuters movement on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway may not resume soon. “It is because the farmers are camping at the UP Gate and we are unable to release the traffic movement towards Delhi. It may pose several issues. Once the farmers vacate the area, the traffic movement will resume smoothly,” he added.Meanwhile, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that they have proposed a joint committee of officials for a damage assessment exercise. “Apart from short circuited electrical cables and damage to roads, our prime concern is the structural safety of the expansion joints of the UP Gate flyover as we have not been able to carry out repair and maintenance works for the past 11 months. This could lead to risk in commuting. So, we are proposing for a joint committee which will include NHAI officials and officers of other Uttar Pradesh agencies,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.“Once the joint committee submits its report, we will also ascertain the amount of expenditure involved in repair and maintenance works of the expressway. We will also propose that the NHAI will not bear the cost alone, and other agencies will be involved in sharing the expenditure. It is not because of the NHAI that the commuter movement is held up,” Garg added.The UP Gate site is one of the several sites, including different borders of Delhi, where the farmers have been camping to protest the farm laws.On October 21 this year, the Supreme Court had said that the farmers have the right to protest, but cannot block roads indefinitely. The court was hearing a petition filed by a Noida resident, who urged the protesters to move away from the roads across the National Capital Region (NCR) as “their agitation takes a toll in daily commuting”.The court had also granted a three-week time period to the farmer unions to file their response, and listed the next date of hearing on December 7 this year. “Ultimately, a solution has to be found. We are not averse to their right to protest even when a legal challenge is pending, but roads cannot be blocked,” the court had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-vehicular-traffic-yet-to-resume-at-up-gate-site-101635616981088.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||NSS UP teams up with Lung Care Foundation against air pollution||Lucknow The UP Chapter of National Service Scheme (NSS), in collaboration with the Lung Care Foundation, under its initiative SHAPE UP, launched a first of a kind virtual training programme for teachers on air pollution and climate change, on Saturday. More than 700 teachers from different cities across the state have registered for this programme. The idea is to create a youth brigade called Air pollution and Climate action Task force (ACT) to protect human health in this time of impending climate crisis. Founder trustee, Lung Care Foundation, Rajiv Khurana said, “ACT is an initiative by the Lung Care Foundation, India, that should inspire youngsters around the world. Our immediate mission is to create a taskforce of 100 million youths to adopt every day practices for a positive impact on clean air and climate action. We believe the youth shall change the world to a healthy living space.” Patron, Lung Care Foundation, AP Maheshwari, who is leading the SHAPE UP initiative, spoke to the teachers highlighting “role of each member to adopt carbon free life style and then become a role model to spread it around in wider and even wider circles”. “Teachers in colleges can provide research-based policy suggestion to our public representatives in municipal corporations, assembly and parliament towards mitigating air pollution,“ he said. OSD NSS, Anshumali Sharma, who is leading the ACT programme in UP, said, “It is a proud privilege for NSS to undertake this mission and adopt minimalist life in tune with what Mahatma Gandhi too hinted. It will definitely reduce carbon foot prints” Educationist and mentor, Charu Rawat spoke about her experience of working with the youths and said that “teachers are the torch-bearers and can communicate well to adopt small steps for change towards improving the environment. “ Founder trustee, Lung Care Foundation and chairman, Institute of Chest Surgery, Medanta – The Medicity, Gurugram, Dr Arvind Kumar spoke about the health hazards of air pollution. He said, “There are many global research studies that show the lasting health impacts of air pollution on health of the people. The recent study released by Lung Care Foundation is an eye-opener. It has shown an unacceptably high prevalence of respiratory and allergic symptoms, spirometry-defined asthma, and obesity in Delhi children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nss-up-teams-up-with-lung-care-foundation-against-air-pollution-101635616920784.html
30-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Crystal Club beats SCA by five wickets||An aggressive balling spell by Divyam helped Crystal Club bag victory against SC Academy by five wickets in a low-scoring 40 over league match during the GNSA Under-14 Cricket Tournament in Jassian, Ludhiana, on Saturday.Crystal club won the toss and chose to bowl first.Batting first, the SC Academy team lost all ten wickets at mere 61 runs in 22.4 overs. The SCA batsmen were seen struggling against Divyam, who took six wickets in his eight-over spell including two maiden overs conceding 14 runs. Mankarnvir Singh also took two wickets against SCA.Shivam Verma of SCA showed some mettle as he scored 38 runs in 42 deliveries, hitting two sixes and three fours. He eventually lost his wicket to Divyam.Chasing an easy target, Crystal Club lost its top five batsmen at 28 runs owing to Shivam Verma’s thrilling balling performance. Verma took four wickets in his eight-over spell, conceding ten runs.Yuvraj Pal, the top scorer for Crystal Club steered his team to the victory as he scored 30 crucial runs facing 31 deliveries hitting three fours and a six.Divyam seemed determined to clinch the victory for the team as he fought hard to hold on to his wicket as he remained not out, scoring five runs in 28 deliveries.Divyam was announced the man of the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-crystal-club-beats-sca-by-five-wickets-101635616800903.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Voters in 3 panchayats boycott Mandi LS bypoll over hydroelectric project||Villagers in three panchayats in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district boycotted the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat on Saturday in protest against the construction of a hydroelectric project, which they claimed will adversely affect the environment.Besides these panchayats, villagers in four polling stations in Shimla district also boycotted the bypoll over bad condition of roads in their area. The bypolls to the Mandi parliamentary constituency was held along with bye-elections to the Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seats in the state.Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Apoorv Devgan told PTI that no voter in three panchayats cast their vote till 5 pm. Data after 5 pm is still awaited, he added.There are 1,080 voters in Rarang panchayat, over 500 voters in Jangi panchayat and over 298 voters in Aakpa panchayat in Kinnaur district.Rampur Sub Divisional Magistrate and Assistant Returning Officer Yadvender Pal told PTI that not even a single voter cast their vote in Runupu, Khori and Sharan polling stations, while only six exercised their franchise at the Jarashi polling station in Shimla districtOn the boycott of the bypoll by the three panchayats, villagers said the decision was taken to protest the construction of the Jangi Thopan Powari Hydro-Electric Project and claimed that the project will adversely affect the environment of the area.The villagers said that four people cast their vote at Rarang panchayat's Aryan polling station. But they are not "permanent residents" of the area, they claimed.The villagers said that the government has not paid any heed to their objections to the project and therefore, the decision to boycott the bypoll had to be taken. People were left with no other choice, they said.Members of the Dafla Sports Club in Kanam village also did not cast their vote in support of the three panchayats boycott call, the villagers said from the three panchayats of Kinnaur district said.In Shimla district, none of the 268 voters of Runupu polling station in Runupu village of Kinnu panchayat, 204 voters of Khori polling station in Kungal Balti panchayat and 265 voters of Sharan polling station in Naren panchayat cast their votes. Only six of total 166 voters at Jarashi polling station in Sharan panchayat cast their votes.Villagers, who are voters of these polling stations, said that they had demanded several times from the government to improve the condition of roads.The demand was never met, and with no other choice left, the decision to boycott the bypoll was taken, they said.The residents of Sharan and Jarashi had also sent a memorandum to Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi and election commission through the SDM, the villagers said.The Mandi seat fell vacant after the death of BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma. He was found dead at his official residence in Delhi on March 17.The Mandi bypoll saw a direct contest between Pratibha Singh of the Congress and Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur of the BJP.Besides them, Ambika Shyam of the Rashtriya Lokniti Party, Munshi Ram Thakur of the Himachal Jankranti Party and independent candidates Anil Kumar and Subhash Mohan Snehi are also in the fray in the Mandi bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/voters-in-3-panchayats-boycott-mandi-ls-bypoll-over-hydroelectric-project-101635616363147.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Air quality in Noida, nearby areas improves from ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category||The air quality in Noida and adjoining areas improved from the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category following stubble burning and winds carrying the dust particulates into the National Capital Region (NCR), weather experts said on Saturday.According to pollution monitoring agencies, the air quality index (AQI) in the region will improve further over the next two days due to the change in the wind direction.The Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB) said that the AQI reading, on a scale from zero to 500, Noida on Saturday recorded the AQI at 260 against 282 a day earlier. Ghaziabad’s AQI was recorded at 297 against 284 a day earlier, and Greater Noida at 273 against 321 on Friday.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the air quality is likely to improve in the coming days.“The AQI is in the ‘poor’ category and will remain the same on Sunday, and is likely to improve to the ‘poor’ or upper end of the ‘moderate’ category on Monday due to an expected change in the wind direction from the northwesterly to southeasterly, preventing transport of emissions from stubble burning. Share of crop residue burning emissions is about 12% (effective fire count being 1,826), which contributes to increase in the PM2.5 level due to the transport by northwesterly winds,” according to a statement issued by the Safar on Saturday.Meanwhile, Noida recorded a slight drop in the daytime temperatures.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Saturday was recorded at 29.2 degrees Celsius (°C) and 14.8°C, against 30.5°C and 14.8°C a day earlier. “The maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 30°C and 15°C, respectively, on Sunday,” said an IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-in-noida-nearby-areas-improves-from-very-poor-to-poor-category-101635616740868.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Unrepaired roads in constituency: SP MLA threatens to resign from UP assembly, sit on protest||The Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Gauriganj, in UP’s Amethi, has threatened to resign from the legislative assembly and begin a protest against the ‘system’.Addressing a press conference in the state capital on Saturday, the SP MLA, Rakesh Pratap Singh, said that he would be forced to take this step because the government failed to repair two roads in Amethi despite repeated appeals.“What is the use of being a public representative when I cannot even ensure that two roads in my constituency are repaired,” said Singh adding, “I will hand in my resignation to the chairman of the legislative assembly and begin my sit-in.” This comes hardly two months before the upcoming assembly elections in UP.According to Singh, two roads in his constituency were made under PM Gram Sadak Yojana. The roads broke down completely within months of them being made.“For the last three years I have written to every authority concerned for the repair of these two roads but I have only received assurances and false promises from officials and ministers. No repair work has been done on these roads in this government,” said Singh. “I also raised this issue in the legislative assembly and was assured by the minister concerned that the roads will be repaired within three months. But his assurances were only a lie said on the floor of the House,” he added.Earlier this month, the MLA also met the district magistrate of Amethi and informed him about the need for repair of the roads. “Both the roads are important routes used by locals. Hundreds of accidents have occurred on them and several people have also lost their lives because of it. If the government cannot repair these roads, I will begin my sit-in from October 31,” said Singh.The MLA has announced that he will sit in protest at the Gandhi statue in Lucknow’s Hazratganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unrepaired-roads-in-constituency-sp-mla-threatens-to-resign-from-up-assembly-sit-on-protest-101635616504293.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Smriti Irani launches ‘Hello Kamal Shakti’ app for women in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani launched the ‘Hello Kamal Shakti’ mobile app in Lucknow on Saturday. This app, along with a Whatsapp number 9534350350, will be leveraged to establish direct communication between women and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and both feedback and suggestion can be shared on the number. The mobile app was launched at an event ‘Dharohar - Kushal hathon ki safal udaan’ – organised at Lucknow’s Bhimrao Ambedkar University on Saturday. More than 4,200 women artisans and weavers from 26 districts joined the party during the event in which minister of state for MSME Chaudhary Uday Bhan Singh, general secretary BJP UP and MLC Ashwini Tyagi, co-convenor of artisan and weaver cell of UP BJP UP and chairperson of UPIDR Kshipra Shukla and UP BJP secretary Archana Mishra were present. “Kshipra Shukla is the embodiment of nari shakti (women power), one who has successfully empowered thousands of families,” Smriti Irani said. Irani also referred to various government schemes, including health insurance of ₹5 lakh to more than 6.25 crore people under Ayushman Bharat Scheme. “From the level of the organisation to the government, the BJP is trying to empower the society,” she said. UP minister Uday Bhan, while appreciating efforts of Kshipra Shukla, emphasised that the public welfare programmes of the UP and centre had positively impacted millions of lives. “Every woman embodies Durga in herself and can undertake any task. Under the visionary leadership of PM Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, programmes to further empower women are being accorded utmost importance,” said Shipra Shukla. A book ‘Dharohar’ and website of the Federation of Indian Weavers and Artisans (FIWA) was also launched during the event. Apart from 4,200 artisans and weavers of 26 districts, 550 women of Tharu (a Scheduled Tribe) community were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/smriti-irani-launches-hello-kamal-shakti-app-for-women-in-lucknow-101635616502411.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Industrial unit faces ₹25 lakh penalty for violating emission norms||The regional office of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has recommended a penalty of ₹25 lakh against an industrial unit in Sahibabad for failing to adhere to norms for reducing pollution-causing emissions. Officials said that the non-complying unit in Sahibabad was tracked by a night patrolling team on Friday. “We checked the same unit nearly two months ago and issued a show cause notice. On Friday night, our patrolling team again found the unit erring as emissions were higher than the standard limits. As the violation has taken place in the period when the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) is in place, we have recommended a hefty penalty of ₹25 lakh against the unit. The recommendation has been sent to the headquarters,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “This is the first instance of an industrial unit which was found non-complying with emission norms during the Grap period in the district this year,” said Sharma. The officials also said that the deadline of road repair works ended on October 30 and they will now start levying fines against the Ghaziabad municipal corporation.“We will now start penalising the Ghaziabad municipal corporation as many roads are still under construction/repairs even though the deadline set by the state government ended on October 30,” Sharma added. The officials said that the potholed roads are a major source of PM10 pollutants. They further said that a similar action may be initiated in connection with the surface relaying work of the CISF Road in Indirapuram which is pending for almost a year now and is a major source of dust pollution. According to data of the municipal corporation, the civic body is taking up pothole repair works over about 165km of roads and completed about 121km till October 28. The records also indicate that about 77km of road stretches were proposed for restoration while only 22km got completed till October 28. The corporation officials said that they completed almost 90% of the patch work and 86% of road restoration work before the monsoon, but prolonged spell of rains deteriorated the road conditions. “We have completed about 90% of the road repair/patch works as of today. It is likely to get complete in another day or two. Only the resurfacing works are pending, which will also be completed soon,” said NK Chaudhary, chief engineer of the corporation. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality of Ghaziabad on Saturday remained under the ‘poor’ category, with an air quality index (AQI) value of 297 as gainst 284 a day earlier. The UPPCB has implemented Grap in NCR cities of the state on directions of the CPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-industrial-unit-faces-25-lakh-penalty-for-violating-emission-norms-101635616500929.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Uttar Pradesh allows use and sale of green crackers for 2 hours on Diwali, but with riders||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow use and sale of green crackers on Diwali only for two hours in areas where the air quality is in the ‘moderate’ category or better, officials said on Saturday.The move came following the recent directions by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to keep the pollution levels in the region in check.The directions were issued by the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi, on Friday night. “The Supreme Court has clarified in an order dated July 23, 2021, that if the air quality in the region is under the ‘moderate’ category or better, respective officials may allow use and sale of green crackers there,” according to the order by Awasthi.According to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) data, air quality in 27 cities was in the ‘moderate’ category between January and September this year. The 27 cities being monitored during this period included Ghaziabad and Noida among others.However, green cracker traders said that the administration officials in Ghaziabad have not responded to them over the issue of licence for sale of the crackers. “We are running from pillar to post to meet every concerned officer, but no one is telling us clearly if they will give us the licenses for sale of green crackers even after the directions issued by the ACS (home). We have made investments in huge amounts, and those are stuck up. Only five days are left for Diwali, but we have not received any clear answer in the matter. In such a case, we have no option left but to stage a protest,” said Ashutosh Gupta, president of Footkar Cracker Association, Ghaziabad.“According to the order issued by the Uttar Pradesh government, Ghaziabad is listed among the 27 cities having ‘moderate’ air quality,” Gupta added.Officials have also been asked to follow the December 1, 2020, order of the National Green Tribunal. “There will be a total ban on sale and use of all fire crackers during the Covid-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region (NCR) and all cities or towns in the country, where the ambient air quality falls under the ‘poor’ category and above,” said the NGT’s December 1, 2020, order quoting the Uttar Pradesh government’s directions.Officials of the Ghaziabad administration, on the other hand, said that they will take the present air quality of the city into account to bring in the move.“We have taken a legal opinion in the matter, and will take into account the current AQI which is under the ‘poor’ category. If the AQI is ‘moderate’ or better, we may allow sale and use of crackers as directed. In case the AQI is in the ‘moderate’ category or better on Diwali, which will be celebrated on November 4 this year, we will allow sale of green crackers to seven traders -- who already have permission for the same,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city).Ever since the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) was put in place in Ghaziabad on October 15, 2021, the city’s AQI has been recorded between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ category, except for being under the ‘good’ category on October 18, 2021, and the ‘satisfactory’ category on October 19 and 25 this year, besides being under the ‘moderate’ category on October 26 this year.An air quality index (AQI) between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On the other hand, police officials of Noida said that the department is deliberating on the matter and more details will be shared at the earliest. The issuance of licence is under the jurisdiction of the police, after the Commissionerate system was implemented in Noida.Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the Commissionerate has received directions from Uttar Pradesh government on issuance of licence to vendors for selling green fire crackers. “We are studying the order... We will take suitable measures on this at the earlies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uttar-pradesh-allows-use-and-sale-of-green-crackers-for-2-hours-on-diwali-but-with-riders-101635616140948.html
30-10-2021||Other||Gurugram: Police deployed in residential areas after rise in snatching cases||The Gurugram police have deployed personnel from the crime investigation units in several residential areas to control the rising cases of chain snatching in the district. Officials said that police personnel in plain clothes are also deployed in several markets as such incidents go up during the festival season. According to police, about 100 snatching cases were reported in the past two months, most of them from areas such as Sector 14, South City 2, Sushant Lok 1, DLF Phase 4, Sector 49, and Sector 50, among others. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that last year, more than 170 snatching cases were reported during the festival time. “We have urged residents to not wear gold ornaments while visiting markets or when walking in open areas in their colonies. Our teams are patrolling several areas, especially in the morning and evening hours as a security measure,” he said. The officials said that more than 1,300 police personnel, including women, are part of the patrolling teams and they have been provided with two-wheelers. Residents said that police should increase patrolling in the residential areas.Nilesh Tandon, president of Fresco Apartments RWA, Sector 50, said that several cases have been reported near to their residential society this month. “Police should patrol our area as several residents have been targeted by bike-borne snatchers. Women feel scared moving out for walking or shopping for Diwali,” he said. Ritu Gupta, a resident of Orchid Petal in Sector 49, said that women out on streets are targeted during the festival season. “There is a sense of fear among women in the area as the cases are on the rise. Young boys on motorcycles are on the prowl and commit the crime at their will,” she said. The police officials said they have also directed the shopkeepers and other commercial establishments to ensure that their CCTV cameras are functioning properly. Sangwan said that they have cracked more than 70 cases in the past two months with the help of technical surveillance. “The patrolling teams are connected with the police control room teams and as soon as they get any information, they immediately share the details with the other teams so that the miscreants can be tracked and arrested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-police-deployed-in-residential-areas-after-rise-in-snatching-cases-101635615780848.html
30-10-2021||Pune||October ends on cooler note in Pune||As October draws to an end, Pune city is experiencing the chills with minimum temperatures plummeting to 14.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which is the lowest minimum temperature so far. As per the weather department, night temperatures have been 1.4-degree cooler than normal. Cooler winds gripped the city during the day resulting in day temperatures of just 31.3 degrees Celsius. The highest maximum temperature recorded was 34.2 degrees Celsius on October 4 this year, which is 3.1 degree warmer than normal. As per the weather department, night temperatures are likely to remain around 15 to 17 degrees Celsius. As per data furnished by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), in the last decade, night temperatures in October have seen a low of 12 degrees Celsius. October this year has been relatively warmer. The all-time record reported by IMD for minimum temperatures in Pune city in October has been 9.4 degrees Celsius in 1968.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department, said that till October end, minimum temperatures have been in the region of 15 degrees Celsius. “However, as November begins, there are chances of light rainfall along with which night temperature will be around 17 to 22 degrees Celsius in various parts of the city. However, day temperatures will be pleasant along with light rainfall,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/october-ends-on-cooler-note-in-pune-101635615600975.html
30-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan bypolls regiser 70% voter turnout||An average of 70 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypoll to Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar assembly constituencies of Rajasthan on Saturday.The polling ended at 6 pm.The final voter turnout in Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) was 69.38, while the figure for the Vallabhnagar seat was 71.45 per cent, officials said.In both the constituencies, 70.41 per cent polling was recorded.The voter turnout in 2018 assembly elections in Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad was recorded at 76.31 per cent and 78.29 per cent, respectively.The voting for bypolls to the two assembly constituencies to decide the fate of 16 candidates had begun amid tight security arrangements at 7 am.The bypolls were necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP legislator from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena.A total of 5,11,455 voters -- 2,53,831 in Vallabhnagar and 2,57,624 in Dhariawad - were eligible to exercise their franchise.Nine candidates were in the fray for the Vallabhnagar seat and seven for Dhariawad.A 100-year-old woman cast her vote at a polling booth in Bhindar area under the Vallabhnagar constituency. Mohini Bai came to the polling booth in a wheelchair.Chief electoral officer Praveen Gupta earlier said 638 polling stations had been set up for the polling in both the constituencies. Out of these, the number of sensitive polling stations is 119.A total of 62 sensitive polling stations, including 31 polling stations in Vallabhnagar and 31 in Dhariawad, were monitored through live webcasting at four levels, he said.A control room was set up by the election department at the state-level for monitoring the live webcasting. Along with this, monitoring was also done at the level of returning officer, district election officer.This live webcasting was also monitored by the Election Commission of India, he added.The official added that Covid-related guidelines were strictly followed at the polling stations.Gupta said 4,468 security personnel were deployed in both the constituencies to ensure free, fair and peaceful voting. The voting was conducted according to Covid-19 guidelines, he added.In Vallabhnagar, the ruling Congress party has given ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife, Preeti Shaktawat, while the BJP has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala.The Congress has fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against BJP candidate Khet Singh Meena.In the House of 200 members, the ruling Congress has 106 MLAs, while the BJP has 71, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party has three, CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party have two each, the Rashtriya Lok Dal has one and 13 are independent legislators.Two seats are vacant on which the bypolls were conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bypolls-regiser-70-voter-turnout-101635614959432.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Minor child’s welfare responsibility of both parents: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has said that it is the responsibility of both the parents to bring up a minor child and look after the child’s welfare, both emotionally and financially.The HC bench of justice Jaishree Thakur dismissed the plea of a Haryana resident, who had challenged a Mahendergarh family court order of asking the husband to pay an interim monthly maintenance of ₹8,000 to the minor daughter, who was residing with his estranged wife.The husband was directed by the family court in September on maintenance plea from the child and family court as an interim measure awarded this amount till the final decision, further observing that any amount of interim maintenance awarded was adjustable with any other amount awarded at the time of resolution of dispute.In the HC, the husband had argued that the wife is working as a nurse and earns ₹12,000 per month. However, the court directed for interim maintenance to him only.The husband, in the HC, had argued that it is the moral responsibility of both the parents to look after the upbringing and welfare of the minor child, but in the case in hand, he has been burdened with the entire liability to do so.She too would be responsible for upbringing and welfare of the minor daughter, he had demanded, adding that the matter should be sent to the mediation and conciliation centre for one-time settlement.The court, while observing that responsibility lies with both the parents, dismissed his plea and said the daughter is residing with the mother and she is providing her all essentials, out of her monthly earning, whereas, the husband is earning ₹36,953 per month as per the records submitted in court.“Thus, the court is not inclined to interfere with the impugned order (family court order). Needless to say, at the time of final adjudication any payment made will be automatically adjustable,” the court of justice Jaishree Thakur said.As of demand for mediation proceedings, the HC said the family court could be approached for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minor-child-s-welfare-responsibility-of-both-parents-hc-101635615251899.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Police fail to submit forensic report, HC grants bail in 1.6kg drug seizure case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted default bail to a Fatehabad resident who was arrested with 1.6kg ganja in December 2020.In the case in hand, the police had submitted challan without the forensic report. Taking that as ground, accused Bhim Sain had approached high court seeking bail earlier this month.The FIR in question was registered on December 22, 2020 under the NDPS Act at station city, Fatehabad. The challan was submitted on February 11.The petitioner had argued that in various judgments it had been held that filing of the challan without FSL report will not be regarded as a complete challan and, thus, the accused will be entitled to default bail.The government had admitted that FSL report has not been submitted but reasoned that challan will be considered a complete one.Taking note of the fact that the challan has not been submitted and the importance of FSL report in drugs cases, the bench of justice Anupinder Singh Grewal ordered release of the accused on bail.Earlier this month, a coordinate bench too had released an accused from Sirsa on bail on similar grounds observing that the forensic reports in drugs seizure cases form the foundation of the case of prosecution and in case the same is not there, the entire case of prosecution “falls to ground”. In both the cases in hand, accused were found with commercial quantity drugs.The court also took note of strong observations made in one Ajit Singh’s case in which another bench had observed: “We emphasise on the stringent aspect of the NDPS Act which would compellingly persuade us to take the aforesaid view (granting default bail). Without determining the nature and content of the contraband, it will be draconian to propel an accused into the throes of a trial.”“The liberty of an individual will constantly be imperiled at the hands of dubious officials of the police who may venture to falsely implicate a person,” the bench had observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-fail-to-submit-forensic-report-hc-grants-bail-in-1-6kg-drug-seizure-case-101635615000766.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Locals, activists hold sit-in fast to protect Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary in Pune||PUNE: Members of ‘Save Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary’ and residents of Kalyani nagar held a sit-in fast to protest the dumping of rubble and debris at the Dr Salim Ali bird sanctuary till such time the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities took cognisance of the problem. The half-day protest was planned by ‘Save Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary’ and saw nearly 200 people join the fast at different times of the day. Deputy leader of the Shiv Sena, Sachin Ahir, visited the site along with local leaders including the local MLA. Additional commissioner Kunal Khemnar and his team from the PMC also visited the site and were taken for a quick tour of the sanctuary.Ornithologist Dharmaraj Patil said, “The area is visited by 110 local and migratory birds, or more. Even today, a large number of ornithologists came to study them. We showed them the birds and the many illegal things taking place at the sanctuary. Ahir assured action to protect the sanctuary and directed the PMC team as well. He also assured that he would take the land dispute matter to the environment minister.”Joining the group via video call was actor-turned-environmental activist Sayaji Shinde who tried to understand the reason behind the protest. Patil said, “This is quite a fruitful day in the life of the sanctuary and we hope that an Aarey-like decision will be taken in favour of the Dr Salim Ali sanctuary as well,” Patil said.Satya Natarajan, member of ‘Save Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary’, said, “The Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary in Yerawada has been a victim of the apathy of administrative authorities for many years. In such a large area of 22 acre adjacent to Pune city, some people with unholy intentions have been working towards destroying the green belt rich in trees and biodiversity. In the past two years, a large number of trees have been axed, debris and rubble from nearby construction sites has been thrown inside, and even the trees transplanted by the Maha Metro have been killed.”Meghana Baphna, member of ‘Save Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary’ and resident of Kalyani nagar, said, “There are a lot of illegal activities underway such as dumping construction debris in the natural stream passing through the sanctuary. Ahir suggested that the commissioner lodge an FIR against such activities. The commissioner too has promised proper action against the perpetrators of illegal dumping in the sanctuary. Further damage to the sanctuary will have to be stopped with immediate effect. We will be discussing further with officials in Mumbai and mapping a concrete plan to save this beautiful oasis in the heart of the city and prevent it from becoming a dump yard. Our immediate demands are clean up every bit of debris in the sanctuary, let the nullah flow freely and remove every obstacle in its natural flow, maintain a gate to the sanctuary to disallow dump trucks from entering, and have security for the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/locals-activists-hold-sit-in-fast-to-protect-dr-salim-ali-bird-sanctuary-in-pune-101635614881052.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Deceased gardener’s family protests outside MDU V-C’s residence||Demanding the arrest of three employees of Rohtak’s Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) who were booked under Sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with the suicide of a 26-year-old gardener last Sunday, his family gheraoed MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh’s residence here on Saturday.They accused him of shielding the accused employees.The gardener, who was employed through outsourcing at MDU, had committed suicide at his house in Rohtak last Sunday while accusing three employees - clerk Ajmer, supervisor Kamal Jeet and OSD to V-C’s camp office Baljeet (in a suicide note) of harassing him and not paying his salary for the last three months.The deceased had written in the suicide note that he had paid ₹50,000 to Kamal Jeet three years ago to get the outsourcing job at MDU.A high drama was witnessed outside the V-C’s residence where the family and BJP’s ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janata Party’s student wing INSO volunteers raised slogans demanding justice for the victim. They accused the vice-chancellor of giving patronage to the three accused.Victim’s mother, who is also a contractual employee at MDU, said the culprits behind her son’s death are roaming freely and police have failed to take action against them.“A cop had visited our house and threatened that we will not get justice by raising slogans outside the V-C’s house,” the victim’s mother said, adding, “If police will not take action against the accused, I will also end my life.”INSO national president Pradeep Deswal alleged that the V-C is shielding the accused as his camp office OSD has been booked.“There were many complaints against the OSD but the V-C had thrown them in the dustbin. The victim had written three persons’ names in the suicide note and a fair enquiry is needed,” he added.After two hours of protest, the V-C came out and said, “The victim had been recruited through an agency and was not a permanent employee. Police are investigating the case.”Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Udai Singh Meena said police are investigating the matter.“I have not received any complaint that some cop had given threats to the victim’s mother. We are aware of the fact that the victim’s family protested outside the V-C’s residence,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deceased-gardener-s-family-protests-outside-mdu-v-c-s-residence-101635614822477.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Another procurement scam of ₹5.06 crore detected in Karnal, 12 mandi officials booked||Another scam of bogus paddy procurement of 25,852 quintal worth around ₹5.06 crore was detected in Karnal’s Jundla grain market, putting a question mark on the Haryana government’s claims of making the procurement process transparent.Police have registered a first investigation report (FIR) against 12 people, including eight employees of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board, for the alleged irregularities in paddy procurement.The inquiry has also hinted at collusion on part of the food supply officials and Hafed officials, who were deputed at Jundla for making procurement of PR paddy after physical verification.Action was initiated following inquiry and physical verification by a team under Hisar zonal marketing enforcement officer (ZMEO) Nihal Singh.As per this report, 68,935 bags (each containing 37.5kg) of 25,852 quintal procured parmal varieties of paddy was not found on the spot exposing that fictitious gate passes were issued in this regard by the staff of the grain market concerned.The FIR was registered against Jundla secretary market committee Ajay Kumar, auction recorders Anil and Dilshad Ahmad, mandi supervisor Kuldeep Singh, auction recorders (market committee Naresh Chander and Vikas Maan, and computer operators Rohit, Asmit Singh, Bhawar Singh, Mohit, Ajay Kumar and Amit Kumar under Sections 409, 420, 467 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and an investigation has been initiated.The report has accused auction recorders Anil Kumar and Dilshad Ahmad of deliberately issuing fictitious incoming gate passes of paddy without actual arrival in the mandi. It has mentioned details of the computer operators of the mandi including Rohit, Asmit Singh, Bhawar Singh, Mohit, Ajay and Amit Kumar, who were on duty when the fictitious gate passes were generated.The report revealed that the mandi secretary, who is overall in-charge of the mandi, has failed to perform his duty efficiently by not controlling the issuance of fictitious incoming gate passes without the actual arrival of PR paddy.The report revealed that it is the duty of the purchase agency officials to verify each and every stock record before procurement. But the availability of less stock than shown in the records, indicated that they too had indulged in bogus purchase without actual arrival of the produce in the mandi, thereby leaving all opportunity to the millers to cover up the stock by purchasing paddy or rice from the adjoining states at lesser rates.Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board chief administrator Vinay Yadav said, “The FIR has been registered and other departmental action is to follow against the officials involved in this fictitious procurement.”He said efforts are being made for corruption-free procurement in state and strict action will be taken against people involved in the fictitious procurement.This is the second such scam reported in Karnal within a fortnight as 32 people, including a mandi supervisor, auction recorder, two computer operators and 28 commission agents were booked for alleged bogus procurement of 12,573 quintal paddy of ₹4.81 crore at Gheer grain market in Karnal district on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-procurement-scam-of-rs-5-06-crore-detected-in-karnal-12-mandi-officials-booked-101635614522175.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Anupriya’s efforts to unite Apna Dal factions suffer jolt||Union minister and Apna Dal (S) president Anupriya Patel’s efforts to unite Apna Dal (S) and Apna Dal (Kamerawadi) seems to have suffered a blow as Apna Dal (Kamerawadi) president and Anupriya’s mother Krishna Patel has alleged that Apna Dal (S) working president Ashish Patel is making attempts to weaken her party. Ashish Patel, an MLC, is also the husband of Union minister Anupriya Patel. In September, Anupriya Patel had sent a proposal to her mother for uniting Apna Dal (Kamerawadi) with Apna Dal (S).Addressing a press conference here on Friday night, Krishna Patel also alleged that Ashish Patel was an agent of the BJP and had an eye on her property. “Recently, a letter addressed to the director general of police, UP, went viral on social media. It demanded protection for me. In the letter, it was shown that there was a dispute between my daughters regarding my property,” Patel said. “In this regard, I want to say it clearly that all our movable and immovable properties have been earned by my husband Dr Sonelal Patel and I. Therefore, I am the natural owner of the properties after Dr Patel,” she said. She further alleged that the Ashish interfered in each and every affair of her house. She said that she was facing a threat under present circumstances and therefore she should be provided security. She said while fighting against social injustice, unemployment and anti-farmer policies of the central and the state governments, her party would overcome these conspiracies and once again emerge as a big force in the state. My party would play an important role in the formation of next government in UP after 2022 assembly polls, she claimed. Meanwhile, refuting all allegations, Apna Dal (S) working president Ashish Patel said, “Mata Ji (Krishna Patel) is under pressure from her other daughter Pallavi Patel and son-in-law Pankaj Niranjan. That is why she is speaking like that. All allegations against me are baseless.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anupriyas-efforts-to-unite-apna-dal-factions-suffer-jolt-101635614342683.html
30-10-2021||Gurugram||GMDA clears geen belt on MG road||An enforcement team of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GDMA) on Saturday cleared a green belt along MG Road from Dronacharya Metro Station to Neel Kanth hospital, where several illegal structures had cropped up.GMDA officials said around 50 small and large structures that had come up illegally were demolished as they were constructed on the green belt in violation of rules.Six eateries, four rooms, four mobile cafeterias, two nurseries, two shops of building material suppliers and several other such structures set up illegally were removed from the green belt.Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, GMDA, said the authority received complaints from local residents regarding the shops, vends and eateries that had come upon the green belt, following which they took action against the illegal structures.“The green belt was encroached upon illegally and all the structures were removed during the drive. The owners were asked to remove their goods and items first, after which the demolition was carried out,” said Lot.Officials from the enforcement team further said that illegal structures along MG Road and around Sikanderpur will be removed in the coming days. “Wherever green belts and government land has encroached illegally, it will be cleared. We also request the residents to inform the enforcement wings of different agencies about any such structures that have come up illegally,” said Lot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-clears-geen-belt-on-mg-road-101635614101217.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Comply with order on security deposit interest payment or face action: UPERC to discoms||Passing severe strictures against distribution companies (discoms) for still not complying with its order asking it to pay consumers the interest on their security deposit, the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) has granted one last chance to them by providing three months’ time to ensure compliance or face penal action.The commission has asked discoms to also submit an interim report on the progress made in the matter by November 15. The commission got furious when discoms sought more time to comply with the commission’s earlier order. “Despite the categorical submission made by director, UPPCL, in July 2019, request is being made to provide another three months even after lapse of more than one-and-a-half-years from the committed time. It is an extremely disturbing situation galore with consumer apathy that even after two years from the committed time, the respondents need more time to comply with the directions,” the three-member bench headed by UPERC chairman RP Singh observed in its order on October 27.Earlier during the hearing, the UPPCL submitted that the KESCO was already making timely payment of interest on security deposit and apprised the commission that other four discoms had also submitted that, as per the decision taken in the board meeting, it was decided that the system shall be updated in the next few months depending upon the connected load and other conditions associated with the consumers but said that required more time to update security data.“The commission has so far been patient and tolerant with the licensee and thus provides one last opportunity to the licensee before initiating the proceedings under Section 142 of the Electricity Act 2003. But it also reminds the licensee not to test the patience of the commission or else it will most certainly invite the wrath of the commission,” the commission further noted in its order.The commission also raised concern on the issue that information about large number of consumers was still not available with the discoms. “The commission is anguished and peeved that interest on security deposit, which is being approved by the commission for the past so many years as part of the annual revenue requirement (ARR) is not being credited into the accounts of the consumers on one pretext or the other,” the commission observed. “Not having information about security deposit status of large chunk of consumers and almost no visible effort to rectify the situation is now not in the zone of monopolistic lackadaisical attitude rather it is criminal on consumers. Even the amount that has been credited in the current financial year has not been provided by MVVNL and PuWNL,” it added.Observing that the attitude of the licensee (UPPCL/discoms) was the most consumer-insensitive and in total disregard of rules/ regulations, the commission granted one last opportunity by providing three-month time to the discoms to ensure compliance and submit the information on amount of interest on security deposit paid in FY 2021-22, number of consumers who have been paid interest on security deposit along with the amount numbers of consumers who have not been paid interest on security deposit in the past 10 years and treatment of arrear in regard to interest on security deposit that was not paid to the consumers.The security deposit is the amount that a consumer has to pay to the discom concerned while taking an electricity connection and the amount is refunded once the consumer surrenders the connection permanently. The amount depends on the nature and number of kws (kilowatts) of the connection. Under the rules, discoms must pay interest annually on the security deposit at the prevailing bank rate or above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/comply-with-order-on-security-deposit-interest-payment-or-face-action-uperc-to-discoms-101635613920685.html
30-10-2021||Gurugram||Four somalian citizens nabbed, three booked for murder of compatriot in Gurugram||Two days after a Somalian national died after his head allegedly banged into a wall during an altercation with his friends at a house in Sector 50, police on Friday arrested four of his friends – all from Somalia in Africa – and booked them for murder. Police said three other friends of the victim who were also booked for the murder are being questioned. The victim has been identified as Mohammed Mohamud Duale. According to police, a group of eight friends were having a party at a hotel in Sector 45 on Wednesday night. After midnight, all of them went to one of the suspects’ house in Mayfair Garden in Sector 50.Police said soon, an argument broke out and snowballed into an ugly fight. The suspects allegedly pushed the victim and his head banged against a wall after which he fell unconscious. Police said the suspects were in an inebriated state and didn’t realise the intensity of the injury at that time. They put the victim on a bed and fell asleep. Abdirizak Mohamud Hassan, a cousin of the deceased, said he received a call from a relative who informed him about Duale’s death. Police said Duale was living in Delhi and had gone to Gurugram on Wednesday to attend a party. He was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 51 and was declared brought dead. “I reached the hospital in the afternoon and met the doctors. They informed me that he died due to a head injury and his body was handed over to us after the post mortem,” said Hassan. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said they have arrested four suspects and three others are under police scanner. “We are trying to recover CCTV footage from the hotel to check their time of exit. His head was banged into the wall and he suffered grave internal injuries,” said Sangwan. A case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC was registered against seven suspects at Sector 50 police station on Friday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-somalian-citizens-nabbed-three-booked-for-murder-of-compatriot-in-gurugram-101635613740898.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Liquor likely to cost more in Delhi from November 17. Here's why||Amid the festive season, liquor prices in Delhi are likely to go up very soon as private vends open from November 17 under the new excise policy. The Delhi government’s excise department is still in the process of fixing the maximum retail price (MRP) of liquor brands to be registered in Delhi. However, officials noted that the wholesale prices of all types of liquor -- Indian or foreign -- are likely to increase by 8-9 per cent."The increase in wholesale price will lead to at least 5-10 per cent increase in MRP of liquor, although the actual effect will be realised only after the new retail system as per the excise policy for 2021-22 is in place," a liquor trader told news agency PTI.All the 849 vends in the national capital will be operated by private entities from November 17.Under the new Excise Policy 2021-22, the excise duty and VAT have been subsumed in the licence fee. A nominal excise duty and VAT of 1% each on wholesale price (WSP) of the alcoholic beverage will be levied to arrive at the landing price to the retailer, the order read.The EffectThe order stated that since all vends shall be operated by private business entities in a competitive market environment, they are likely to operate at their maximum efficiency and as a result, the market size in terms of number of casks sold is likely to show a significant increase as compared to 2019-20.So far, tipplers in Delhi have enjoyed a relatively lower price for their alcoholic beverages when compared with the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Considering the incorporation of factors including central sales tax at 2%, profit margin for the wholesaler, import pass fee and freight and handling charges, as approved in the Excise Policy 2021-22, the impact is 10 per cent to 25 per cent rise for some brands of whisky (Indian manufactured foreign liquor or IMFL), with fluctuation per unit from 8 per cent (Royal Stag Premier) to 25.9 per cent (Blenders Pride Rare), PTI reported.A similar impact is expected on all other categories of liquor as well.Moreover, the capping of ₹50 as retail margin on sale of IMFL and ₹100 on sale of foreign liquor has been discontinued and there will be no cap on the retail margin of IMFL, foreign liquor, beer and wine.The competitive market forces will keep watch over the sale price to the consumer, the order said.At the same time, discount on MRP has been allowed in the Excise Policy 2021-22 to bring competitive market forces into effect.The Risk"It is important that the consumer should not be burdened with price increase. The changes brought about in the new excise policy will need reasonable time to play out in the market,” the order stated."In the overall interests of consumers of Delhi, to prevent the interstate smuggling, the MRP for 2021-22 should as far as possible be in the same range as prevailing in Delhi," it said, adding that the impact of increase in wholesale price (if any) also needs to be factored in while fixing the MRP.The Excise Commissioner will fix MRP for each liquor brand and product after taking into account the input of licensees and the price of the product in the neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan.Nearly 40% or 260 of the city-state’s liquor shops, the private vends, have already shut on October 1 and will remain closed till November 16.So far, the majority of retail sales in Delhi was handled by the government's agencies. During the transition period in October, only government-run liquor outlets are open.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/liquor-likely-to-cost-more-in-delhi-from-november-17-here-s-why-101635613119382.html
30-10-2021||Gurugram||No central helpline number in Gurugram for reporting complaints of air pollution||Authorities in Gurugram are yet to come up with a centralised helpline number, where residents can lodge complaints of sources contributing to air pollution, even though almost a month has passed since the district administration issued the first set of directions to nearly 40 agencies to combat air pollution in the district ahead of winter. Officials from Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said the air quality monitoring control room could not be set up as contractual workers cannot be hired, according to an order issued by the state government in September. S Narayanan, member secretary of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “In the last week of September, the state government issued an order stating that no outsourced workers can be hired, due to which the process of setting up the air quality monitoring control room has been delayed. We are in touch with the officials concerned and taking up the matter on priority. The control room should be functional by the first week of November, when it is being predicted that the air quality in the National Capital Region is likely to drop to very poor category.” The control room usually has five members, including a supervisor, who monitor activities such as dust control measures, sprinkling of water, open waste burning and local sources of pollution. Officials from Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said no helpline number has been released but the air lab for monitoring local sources of pollution have been set up at Sector 42. Subash Yadav, nodal officer for urban environment at MCG said, “As part of implementing the measures listed in the graded response action plan (Grap) on October 15, the air lab was set up in Sector 42. We have been monitoring local sources of pollution and all departments have been directed to take measures to prevent deterioration of air quality. We are also in the process of issuing challans to violators. No helpline numbers have been issued but we learn about violations from residents and take action accordingly.” Meanwhile, residents said that in the past few days, waste burning has increased in the city, with such instances coming to the fore on a daily basis. This week, waste burning incidents have been reported from Sector 62 and Sector 57 among other areas. Ruchika Sethi, a member of Citizens for Clean Air, a city-based group, said, “At this point, someone from the enforcement agencies should start taking accountability as waste burning is not a sporadic issue anymore but rather rampant. It has become a conventional practice of managing waste and is not considered a risk to health. Air pollution itself is not considered as a risk to human health and environmental safety. While we appreciate a quick response system to waste fires and night time patrolling, we need preventive action here, as once waste is burnt, the toxic emissions are already in our breathing system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-central-helpline-number-in-gurugram-for-reporting-complaints-of-air-pollution-101635613320613.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Woman banker dies by suicide in UP’s Ayodhya||A 30-year-old woman bank officer allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling of a room in her rented accommodation in Khawaspura area in UP’s Ayodhya district late on Friday night, said a senior police officer on Saturday. After getting information, SSP, Ayodhya, Shailesh Kumar reached the spot. The cops entered the room after breaking open the door of the room. The police said they recovered a suicide note from the room in which the woman, who had been working with the Punjab National Bank since 2017, held three police personnel, including a senior police officer, responsible for her extreme step.However, the exact reason for her alleged suicide could not be ascertained till late in the evening. She belonged to Rajajipuram, Lucknow, where her family resides. Further probe into the incident is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-banker-dies-by-suicide-in-up-s-ayodhya-101635613200760.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||DU to name two upcoming colleges after Veer Savarkar, Sushma Swaraj||New Delhi: The Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh has selected the names of Veer Savarkar and late BJP leader Sushma Swaraj for two upcoming colleges of the university.During an executive council meeting on Friday, the VC declared that the names of Swaraj and Savarkar had been finalised for consideration from among the other names in the fray. Seema Das, an executive council member, said that the EC had been informed about a pool of names in the previous meeting. “The VC was supposed to finalise some names from the pool. During the meeting on Friday, when a member sought an update on the development, we were told that these two names were finalised,” said Das. The idea of naming upcoming colleges was first floated in an academic council meeting in August.Rajpal Singh Pawar, another EC member who was present at Friday’s meeting, said that he was among a few who raised objections to point out that the shortlisted names were of people associated with a particular ideology. “In the last meeting, we had asked them to add more names. We had pointed out that none of the two names had any connection with the field of education. We suggested that they could give other names such as that of APJ Abdul Kalam. The VC was authorised to make the selection,” said Pawar. AK Bhagi, former EC member and president of National Democratic Teachers’ Front (NDTF), a right-wing teachers’ group, said that plans for naming upcoming colleges after Swaraj and Savarkar were finalised in August itself. He said that while the university had passed the proposal, a government approval was awaited. “A proposal with the two finalised names has been sent to the government and approval is awaited. The land for the upcoming colleges has been identified and necessary approvals are awaited,” said Bhagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/duto-name-two-upcoming-colleges-after-veer-savarkar-sushma-swaraj-101635613140780.html
30-10-2021||Other||Gurugram: Bursting of crackers allowed for 2 hours subject to good air quality||The district administration issued an order on Saturday evening allowing residents to burst green crackers strictly between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali, which will be observed on November 4 this year, only if the air quality remains in the moderate zone or below. According to the order, which came into immediate effect on Saturday and will remain in force till 6am on November 5, sale and use of only reduced emission firecrackers or green crackers is allowed in Gurugram district. The order, issued by deputy commissioner Yash Garg, mentions that following orders of the Supreme Court and Commission for Air Quality Management, “There will be total ban on sale and use of all kinds of fire crackers during Covid-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the ‘poor’ and above category.” Directions have been issued to allow only use of green crackers in cities/towns, where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, for a duration of not more than two hours. “...celebration of any specified festivals or permitted occasions will continue,” said the order. “The orders have been issued as a preventive measure and bursting of crackers will be allowed only if the air quality is in the moderate zone,” said an official from the district administration requesting anonymity. According to experts, the air quality in the national capital territory is likely to dip to very poor category by November 3, a day prior to Diwali, and then increase significantly with particulate matter (PM) 2.5 as the predominant pollutant. “The manufacture, sale and use of joined firecrackers [series crackers or laris) is hereby banned as the same causes huge air, noise and solid waste problems. The sale is permitted only through Iicensed traders... (who) can sell only those firecrackers which are permitted by the order of Supreme Court of India. Even those firecrackers which have already been produced and they do not fulfil the conditions mentioned in Suggestion Nos. II and III (that is green crackers) above are not allowed to be sold in district Gurugram,” said the order. In case of violations, people can register complaints by calling on toll free number 18001801817 or e-mail at cmc@mcg.gov.in. According to the order, the deputy commissioner of police, Gurugram, commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, all sub-divisional magistrates, duty magistrates, and station house officers of Gurugram district shall ensure strict implementation of the order. According to the directions mentioned in the order, “All the official respondents, and particularly the police, shall ensure... that there is no sale of banned firecrackers. In case any violation is found in the implementation of the order, the station house officer of the police station concerned... shall be held personally liable for such violation and this would amount to committing contempt of the court, for which such SHO(s) would be proceeded against.” The regional offices of the pollution control board have also been directed to carry out short-term monitoring in the district for 14 days--seven days prior to Diwali and seven days after the festival--to check for parameters like emission of aluminium, barium and iron. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer for Gurugram north, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said monitoring of the above mentioned three parameters started on October 28 and will continue even after Diwali. Meanwhile, on Saturday, Gurugram recorded poor air quality for the second consecutive day with an AQI of 272 and PM 2.5 as the prominent pollutant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-bursting-of-crackers-allowed-for-2-hours-subject-to-good-air-quality-101635613082392.html
30-10-2021||Kolkata||Bypolls 2021: Bengal records 71% turnout till 5pm amid sporadic scuffle||A high voter turnout of nearly 71 per cent was recorded till 5 pm on Saturday in West Bengal's four assembly constituencies where bypolls were held, an official said. Barring a few stray incidents, polling, which began at 7 am, passed off peacefully in all four constituencies, the Election Commission official said.According to the official, Dinhata registered 69.97 per cent turnout till 5 pm, Shantipur 76.14 per cent, Khardah 63.90 per cent and Gosaba (SC seat) 75.91 per cent. The final poll percentage at 6.30 pm will be available only on Sunday. "Voting has been peaceful and there was no problem anywhere across the four segments," he told PTI. Scuffle between TMC and BJP supporters was, however, reported outside a booth in Khardah, where saffron party candidate Joy Saha apparently caught hold of a "fake voter" and handed him over to the police. "The man is a Bangladeshi infiltrator. He came here to cast his vote in favour of the TMC," Saha said. TMC candidate and state minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay dubbed the allegations as baseless. Security personnel had to use baton to disperse the crowd outside the Khardah booth. According to TMC members, deceased MLA Kajal Sinha's son, Arjodeep, was injured in the melee and had to be hospitalised. The ruling party activists gheraoed Saha's car and staged a sit-in on G T road for some time. Kajal Sinha's death due to COVID-19 necessitated the bypoll in Khardah. TMC MP Sougata Roy claimed that Saha's security personnel assaulted Arjodeep. "People of Khardah will give a befitting to the BJP for beating up Kajal Sinha's son. Joy Saha's security personnel mercilessly assaulted Arjodeep," Roy said. During the day, senior CPI(M) leader Tanmay Bhattacharya had also claimed that his car was attacked when he was about to enter a party office in Khardah. He accused TMC activists of carrying out the attack, an allegation that the ruling party denied. Similar brawls among activists of rival political parties were also reported from Shantipur in Nadia district and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas district. In Santipur, Nadia district, BJP's Jagannath Sarkar gave up his assembly membership to retain his Lok Sabha seat. Gosaba in South 24 Parganas fell vacant following the death of sitting TMC MLA Jayanta Naskar. In Dinhata constituency of Coochbehar district, TMC candidate Udayan Guha accused Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nisith Pramanik of entering booth number 232 with armed guards. "Such an incident has created a reign of fear in the area. This is unacceptable. We have complained to the EC," Guha told reporters. Pramanik, whose resignation from the assembly led to the bypoll in Dinhata, denied the allegations as "politically motivated". The EC had ordered strict maintenance of COVID-19 guidelines during the by-elections to the four seats. It deployed 27 companies of central armed forces in Dinhata, 22 in Santipur, 20 in Khardah and 23 in Gosaba, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bypolls-2021-bengal-records-71-turnout-till-5pm-amid-sporadic-scuffle-101635607582749.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Only 3,400 pregnant women vaccinated in Pune since July 20||PUNE: Despite the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) having found Covid-19 vaccines safe for pregnant women in July this year, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ever since has managed to vaccinate only over 3,400 out of the nearly 66,000 pregnant women at any given point of time in a city with an estimated population of 50 lakh.Dr Suryakant Devkar, PMC immunisation officer, said, “We have vaccinated over 3,478 pregnant women in Pune city through various campaigns like special sessions for women, priority sessions for pregnant women or those with special abilities. The central government has allowed vaccination for pregnant women since July and starting July 20 till Friday, we have been able to vaccinate over 3,400 women.”However, vaccinating over 3,400 out of the nearly 66,000 pregnant women at any given point of time in the city as per PMC records is just nominal. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer, said, “As per the annual records, given the population of the city which could now be over five million, we assume that there are over 66,000 women who are pregnant.”The ICMR approved vaccination against Covid-19 for pregnant women and even those breastfeeding after both vaccines were found safe and pregnant women were found to be vulnerable and in need of the vaccines.Dr Sanjay Gupte, former president of the Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society of India and city-based obstetrician, said, “Despite creating awareness among women that vaccinating pregnant women would actually help the child, women are hesitant to take the vaccine because of side effects post vaccination like fever or rumours regarding clotting and other such issues. Also, some women who have difficulty conceiving or are planning to have a child may not take the vaccine fearing that it may either lead to abortion or make it difficult to conceive. Now that the number of new cases is going down, the need for the vaccine is also going down among pregnant women.”Dr Gupte added that there have been multiple studies proving that the antibodies formed in the mother post vaccination are transferred to the child in due course, thereby providing protection to the child as well and so, such fear and vaccine hesitancy is baseless and every pregnant woman should get the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-only-3-400-pregnant-women-vaccinated-in-pune-since-july-20-101635612840712.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Many courses filled up as Delhi University releases fourth cut-off list||New Delhi: The Delhi University (DU) on Saturday released the fourth cut-off list for admission but several popular courses, such as English, Political Science and Computer Science, is no longer available at some of the top colleges. Other courses, such as Economics, History and Philosophy, are still open but with a marginal dip in the range of 0.25 to 1 percentage points in these colleges.Applications under the fourth list will be accepted on Monday and Tuesday and colleges can approve admissions till Friday (November 5). Students have time till 5pm on Saturday (November 6) to pay the fee to secure admission. Students can also drop existing admissions after paying a cancellation fee, to take admission in another college.Under the fourth list, Lady Shri Ram has closed admission in popular courses such as English, Economics, Political Science, Philosophy and B.Com (hons), though the History course is still open at a 99% cut-off.Miranda House has also closed admission to courses such as English and Political Science though Economics (98.75%), History (99%), and Philosophy (96.75%)are still available. Hansraj College on Saturday closed admission for English but History (98%) and BCom (98.5%) are still available at the college. The Economics course recorded a 0.25% drop in cut-off in the fourth list, from 99% to 98.75%. Hindu College had closed admissions for arts and commerce courses in the general categoryin the third list itself, , except Philosophy which has a 97.5% in the fourth cut-off list.At IP College, admission has been closed for most courses, except English (96.75%) and B.Com (hons) (96.75%).South Campus’s Gargi College still has seats available in some of the popular courses such as B.Com (hons)(97.25%), Political Science (97.5%), Economics (97.75%) and English (96.75%) in the general category. College principal Promila Kumar said that a significant dip was not expected in the next list. “There will not be a substantial dip for commerce and humanity courses in the next cut-off list. We could see some dip in Science courses. Since very few seats are open -- 1-3 in most cases -- we have to be careful with the cut-off, or else we will end up with over-admissions,” said Kumar. The college has already recorded over-admissions in the B.Com programme in the general category and in some other courses. This year, 11 undergraduate programmes had released a 100% cut-off in the first list out of which seven courses have closed admission. Shri Ram College of Commerce had reduced its 100% cut-off in two courses – BCom (Honours) and Economics – to 99% and 99.5% respectively for the third list in reserved categories. On Saturday, these dropped further, settling at 97.5% for both courses. Students wanting to study History can still apply to Lady Shri Ram College (98%), Kirori Mal College (97.75%), Sri Venkateswara College (97.25%), Ramjas College (97.75%) and Kamala Nehru College (98%). Political Science is available at Kamala Nehru College (96.75%) and Gargi (97.5%).English too is available under the fourth cut-off list in colleges such as Sri Venkateswara College (97.25%), Gargi College (96.75%), English (96.75%) and Kamala Nehru College (95.75%). The fifth cutoff list for admission will be declared on November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/many-courses-filled-up-as-delhi-university-releases-fourth-cut-off-list-101635612660655.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Mathura lawyer to represent three Kashmiri students charged with sedition||A Mathura lawyer has accepted the brief to represent three Kashmiri students charged with sedition after they allegedly praised Pakistan on WhatsApp after the Indian cricket team’s defeat in a T20 World Cup match in Dubai on October 24.The Mathura lawyer, Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi, has come forward despite Agra lawyers deciding not to contest the case on behalf of the three Kashmiri students.“Family members of all three Kashmiri students contacted me on Friday evening and asked me to represent their sons currently in Agra jail. I have accepted the brief and would be contesting their case,” Chaturvedi said on Saturday.He is also the lawyer of Atiq-ur-Rehman, Masood Ahmed and Mohammad Alam who, along with Delhi-based Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, were arrested in October 2020 while moving towards Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was gang raped and killed last year.These four were charged with sedition and under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Differing with the stand of the Agra lawyers, Chaturvedi said, “It is a question of the image that our country carries internationally of a cultured and law-abiding democracy where no one is punished without being provided the opportunity of being heard. We lawyers are proud to be part of the judicial system which is held in high regard and we are all liable to safeguard the values on which our judicial system stands.” “The lawyers of Agra can oppose me but this would not deter me from keeping alive the values of the judicial system of our great nation,” Chaturvedi said, adding that he would seek bail for all three Kashmiri students at an appropriate time. The Agra lawyers stuck to their stand that they would not appear for the Kashmiri students. “These three Kashmiri students were studying in the prestigious Engineering College of Agra because of PMSSS (Prime Minister Special Scholarship Scheme), yet they preferred to insult India and praise Pakistan once the result went against India in T20 World Cup match between India and Pakistan,” said Nitin Verma, the division head of Yuva Adhivakta Sangh, a body of young lawyers. Ajay Singh, a lawyer and convenor of the Jan Manch in Agra, echoed similar sentiments and held that it was the patriotic duty of lawyers not to appear on behalf of those booked for sedition. The case against the three Kashmiri students was registered on a complaint from Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader Gaurav Rajawat on Tuesday last (October 26), who alleged that the three had raised “anti-national” slogans and praised Pakistan after the match on Sunday last. The RBS Engineering College in Agra suspended the three students from the college hostel on Monday. These three students were arrested by the Agra police on Wednesday evening and were sent to jail after being charged with sedition and presented in an Agra court on Thursday (October 28).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mathura-lawyer-to-represent-three-kashmiri-students-charged-with-sedition-101635612602119.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||NEET solver gang case: Varanasi police send details of 25 candidates to NTA||Commissionerate of police, Varanasi, on Saturday sent a report containing all details of the 25 candidates of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), who were allegedly in touch with a solver gang busted here in September, to the National Testing Agency (NTA) to withhold their results, said police commissioner A Satish Ganesh. The NTA conducts NEET examination. Sample finger prints on the form were also obtained for matching the fingerprints of all these 25 candidates. “After some time, teams will be sent to other states for investigation,” said Ganesh and added that “the strategy has already been prepared for further action in the solver gang case”. He said concrete evidence was being gathered to oppose anticipatory bail.The police had busted a NEET solver gang in Varanasi on September 13 this year and had arrested two alleged members of the gang, including a woman and her mother, from a NEET examination centre at St Francis’ Xavier School, Tadia Sona Talab in Sarnath. Later, four more members of the gang were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/neet-solver-gang-case-varanasi-police-send-details-of-25-candidates-to-nta-101635612600682.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Three more Zika virus cases in Kanpur, two of them IAF personnel||Three more cases of Zika virus were reported in Kanpur on Saturday, taking the tally in the district to four, the highest anywhere after Kerala where 90 cases have been recorded, said health officials.Kanpur district magistrate Vishakh G Iyer confirmed the new cases.The development comes a week after the first case of Zika virus in Uttar Pradesh was reported in Kanpur on October 23 when an IAF warrant officer’s sample tested positive.Among the three new patients, two are Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel and one is a civilian (a family member of one of the infected personnel). Their reports came in on Saturday evening from King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.“The health department had sent 500 samples of IAF personnel, their family members and people living in a radius of two km of IAF station to KGMU. Three of these samples tested positive,” the district magistrate said.Zika virus disease is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by Aedes mosquitoes, which bite during the day. Symptoms are generally mild and include fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or headache.While the source of the infection in Kanpur hasn’t been traced, the storage facility between hangars seven and eight at the IAF station has emerged as an area of interest. Specialists from the Centre and the state are camping in the city for about a week. The health authorities believe this storage facility could be the possible breeding ground at IAF station.“Three of the infected IAF personnel were working in hangars seven and eight and may have contracted the infection,” said a senior health official, adding the focus was on this facility and necessary steps were being taken.In the first case, the IAF warrant officer was afflicted with fever and admitted in 7 Air Force Hospital.When there was no improvement in his condition, the doctors sent his samples for tests to the National Institute of Virology on October 20, on suspicion that he had contracted a vector-borne disease.Twenty-two contacts of the IAF warrant officer had tested negative. The reports of subsequent samples, around 250, had been negative too.But the fresh cases have put the health department back on its toes and the area of screening has been increased. The sampling would be done as far as Adarsh Nagar and Shyam Nagar localities where three infected people lived. The focus was earlier on Pardevanpurwa, the IAF station and localities within a one km radius.Iyer said the priority was pregnant women at the IAF station and other localities.“We have asked the IAF to share the details of such women, their samples will be taken and tested in Lucknow,” he said.The Zika virus is known to affect the baby’s head in the womb, said the health experts.Kanpur’s chief medical officer Dr Nepal Singh said the health department has formed containment clusters—each consisting of 400 houses.The teams were doing rigorous screening, source reduction, anti-larva spray and identification of people who are sick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-more-zika-virus-cases-in-kanpur-two-of-them-iaf-personnel-101635612420566.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||North corporation opens Delhi’s first pet dog park in Old Rajendra Nagar||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday inaugurated a first of its kind pet dog park in Karol Bagh zone at Old Rajendra Nagar. The park has swings, green patches for canines and their pet parents, civic officials said. North corporation mayor, Raja Iqbal Singh, in his inaugural speech, said with the advent of Covid-19 pandemic, the lives of pet dogs and their parents got confined to indoors, which made them fall prey to lifestyle diseases. “This park, which is the first of its kind in Delhi, will help the pets to stay fit, rejuvenate and recreate in safe open spaces like parks. They will also get free check-up and anti-rabies vaccination here,” he said. Vishakha Yadav, assistant deputy commissioner (Karol Bagh), said a seamless registration counter has also been installed to ensure adequate safety measures for the pets and the pet parents. “Beautifully depicted dog caricatures and paintings are drawn throughout the park, giving it a lively atmosphere. Different kinds of swings, including the ones made out of waste form the highlight of the park,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-corporation-opens-delhi-s-first-pet-dog-park-in-old-rajendra-nagar-101635612360589.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Over 60 witnesses get security||The Lakhimpur police have given security to over 60 key witnesses of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that claimed eight lives on October 3, senior police officials said on Saturday. A few more witnesses will be provided security after analysing their threat perception, the officials said.The security was provided to the witnesses after the Supreme Court on October 26 ordered protection for them and directed the UP police to expedite recording of the eyewitness’ statements before a judicial magistrate.Lakhimpur Kheri additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh, who is a member of the nine- member Special Investigation Team probing the violence, said one armed police personnel each has been deployed for the security of the 60 witnesses.Sharing further details, another police officer requesting anonymity said at least 17 more witnesses were likely to get security. He said the police officials have decided to give a gunner to all such witnesses whose statement has been recorded before a judicial magistrate under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).He said the judicial statement of 77 witnesses has been recorded till Saturday.The statements of only those witnesses, who have revealed any crucial facts about the incident, were recorded before the judicial magistrate, he said.Besides, the statements of over 30 more witnesses have been recorded by police under Section 161 of CrPC, the officer said. Over 50 people, who were present at the site of the incident on October 3, turned up to record their statements at the crime branch office at Lakhimpur Kheri reserve police lines on Saturday. The SIT had released contact numbers of its members, urging eyewitnesses to come forward and contact them to record their statements and provide digital evidence, said senior police officials on October 26.On October 3, violence erupted after a car mowed down four farmers near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. Four other people, including two BJP workers, Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder, journalist Raman Kashyap and a driver, Hari Om Mishra, were also killed.Two separate FIRs—the first in connection with the mowing down of four farmers and the second regarding the killing of the four others—were registered at the Tikunia police station. The SIT is probing both the FIRs and has arrested 13 accused, including the minister’s son Ashish Mishra, in the first case and two accused in the second case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-over-60-witnesses-get-security-101635612242078.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Rectified spirit recovered from licensed liquor shop in UP’s Pratapgarh||A team of excise department of Prayagraj raided and seized five drums of rectified spirit and 31 cartons of Indian liquor from a licensed liquor shop at Kanevara under Fatanpur police station of Prataparh district late Friday night, police said. However, MLA Raniganj Dheeraj Ojha alleged that the raid and the recovery were fake and demanded a fair probe. SP-Pratapgarh Satpal Antil said “Excise officials from Prayagraj led by inspector Ajay Kumar Singh raided the liquor shop owned by Arun Kumar Saroj of Aamapur Berra village of Raniganj area of Pratapagrh and seized five drums of rectified spirit and 31 cartons of Indian liquor.”However, on Saturday when the excise department team reached the Fatanpur police station to get an FIR lodged, the Raniganj MLA also reached the spot and alleged that the excise team has shown fake recovery, he said.CO Raniganj Atul Anjan Tripathi also reached the police station and tried to assure the MLA of proper action based on facts of the raid. The MLA also went to Kanevara and repeated his demand of a fair probe. “There was no ruckus but the MLA insisted that a fair and proper investigation be carried out and only then action be initiated so that no innocent suffers,” Antil added. Rectified spirit is commonly used in making spurious liquor. The manufacturers often set up a mini distillery to make this illegal liquor on their own and using rectified spirit as the main ingredient. They mix caramel colour to make it look like real liquor without raising suspicion of either consumers or even officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rectified-spirit-recovered-from-licensed-liquor-shop-in-up-s-pratapgarh-101635612060577.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP plays up 1990 Ayodhya firing on 31st anniversary of incident||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday played up the police firing on kar sevaks in Ayodhya on the 31st anniversary of the incident that took place during the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led rule on October 30, 1990. While chief minister Yogi Adityanath made a mention of the incident, the BJP shared a video of the police firing on its official @BJP4UP twitter handle. The BJP attack came a day after Union home minister Amit Shah had set the tone for the 2022 UP poll campaign, referring to the Ayodhya firing. He had stated that while kar sevaks were killed during Samajwadi Party (SP) rule, the dream of a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya was set to be fulfilled under the BJP. Shah had made these remarks during a meeting of the party’s booth level cadres from the Awadh region in Lucknow. The party has now planned events at Kashi (Varanasi), west UP, Braj, Gorakhpur and Kanpur regions. The next big meeting that Shah is likely to attend in UP would be in Varanasi on November 12. The entire BJP top brass is expected to be present for that. Varanasi is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency and a key region in Purvanchal or eastern UP. “The Ayodhya firing discourse would gain traction as elections draw close because such issues come in handy for political parties to cater to their respective vote banks,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, has begun playing up the Ayodhya firing incident, stating that had there been a BJP government in UP in 1990, none would have dared to open fire at the kar sevaks. Adityanath has also been referring to the late Kalyan Singh, who was the UP chief minister when the Babri mosque at Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992. Kalyan Singh had admitted that unlike in 1990 when police got permission to open fire at kar sevaks, he denied a similar request to the security forces in writing two years later. After the 1990 Ayodhya firing, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the BJP had coined the term ‘Mullah Mulayam’ (cleric Mulayam). In the run- up to the 2022 UP polls, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had recently sought to rebuild on the theme by referring to Mulayam Singh Yadav, the father of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav as “abba jaan” (meaning father in Urdu). ENDORSEMENT OF YOGI ADITYANATHUnion home minister Amit Shah’s aggressive backing of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s leadership on Friday, urging the people to re-elect the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under him to power in Uttar Pradesh appeared to have settled the leadership issue. “He took the chief minister’s name 17 times in 32 minutes, linked his return as chief minister of UP to Prime Minister Narendra Modi again returning to power at the Centre for the third time in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, spoke of how UP has developed under him and made a detailed comparison between his stint as well as that of the SP,” a BJP leader said.Since May-June, the BJP top brass have made it clear that the party would go into the 2022 UP polls with Yogi at the helm. However, Shah on Friday made it clear that if the BJP returns to power, Adityanath would again be the party’s chief ministerial choice. Shah also patted Yogi for fulfilling 90% of the promises made in the party’s 2017 manifesto that was released by him. “I think in two months’ time that remain, if you could complete the remaining promises too, we could proudly state that BJP has fulfilled all the promises in the manifesto,” Shah had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-plays-up-1990-ayodhya-firing-on-31st-anniversary-of-incident-101635612000609.html
30-10-2021||Pune||6-year-old killed in Phugewadi road accident; car driver released on bail||PUNE A 6-year-old child riding on a two-wheeler with her parents was killed while her parents and one other person were grievously injured after being hit by a car in Phugewadi on Thursday evening.The deceased child was identified as Mahima Yadav (6), said police.“Her mother is a school teacher near which they were standing on the left side of the road. The other injured man was standing separately at a distance in front of them. The car driver came from behind and swept everyone with his car. The child sustained a severe head injury,” said police sub-inspector Balaji Jonapalle of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.The accused was identified as Shashi Shankar Raju (45), a resident of Kankya Meer road in Thane. He works in a private finance company and was in police lockup on Friday night but granted bail later on Saturday.Other injured in the accident were identified as Sanju Yadav (40), Manoj Yadav (40), and Surendrakumar Purnanand Sarangi (45), according to the police.The parents of the child, the Yadav couple, was riding on their two-wheeler when the accused man driving a car registered in his name in Thane hit them.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Rajesh Hiralal Yadav (34), a resident of Kalewadi in Pune.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 338, 337, 427 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6yearold-killed-in-phugewadi-road-accident-car-driver-released-on-bail-101635611760650.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Exam papers not leaked, Maharashtra health department clarifies||PUNE The Maharashtra state health department has issued a clarification about the viral video making rounds on social media about examination paper leak. It is the attendance sheet and does not mean that the paper has leaked, said officials.Archana Patil, director of health services, said, “The attendance sheet is a publicly available document and that the exam would take place as decided on October 31.”The state health department examinations and Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL), the agency conducting the same had come under heavy criticism for improper allocation of the examination centres.A video has been made viral showing the list of the names of the aspirants and following that messages were doing rounds that like earlier this time too the exam papers and other documents related to the exam have been leaked.Patil said, “The exams for the public health department will be conducted as scheduled for group D. A certain video is doing rounds on social media that shows the attendance sheet and related to the same rumours are being spread that the paper for the exam has been leaked. The attendance sheet is not a confidential report and is regularly sent along with the stationery or is also printed at the local level. This is why this is not at all a case of paper leak and the exams would be conducted as decided earlier.”Earlier the public health department exams have come under heavy criticism for mismanagement of the exam, from question papers not reaching in time to the allocation of wrong papers, seating arrangements not done, and the allegations regarding a paper being leaked out before the exam. The health department had also issued a complaint to Nyasa, the agency conducting the exam after the fiascos at the examination centres on October 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/exam-papers-not-leaked-maharashtra-health-department-clarifies-101635611580441.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||UPHRC to state govt: Station SDRF/NDRF team in Bundelkhand region to check open borewell mishaps||The Uttar Pradesh Human Rights Commission (UPHRC) has directed the state government to permanently station a unit of state disaster response force or national disaster response force in Buldelkhand region where digging of borewell is common due to scarcity of water so that response time in case of an emergency could be reduced from 12 to 24 hours in case of a child getting trapped in an abandoned borewell.The UPHRC has also directed state chief secretary to file a reply within six weeks informing about measures taken to comply with the guidelines of the Supreme Court to check deaths of children after falling into open borewells. Justice Bala Krishna Narayana, chairperson, UPHRC, passed the order on October 27 on a petition filed by Alok Singh, director of the Sarvebhyo Foundation, Lucknow.The petition was filed after the December 4, 2020, incident in village Kulpahad, Mahoba district, in which Ghanendra, 4, died after falling into an abandoned borewell. “The Supreme Court had taken suo-moto cognizance of children dying after getting trapped in open/ abandoned borewells in various states. The top court had issued notices to all states to take immediate steps to prevent such type of incidents,” said Singh. The Sarvebhyo Foundation has also argued before the commission that the Uttar Pradesh government has failed to implement these guidelines. “The state government is under an obligation to implement measures recommended by the Supreme Court for preventing fatal accidents of small children as a result of their falling into abandoned borewells and tubewells,” the court had observed.“It is also ardent duty of the state government to institute inquiries into the deaths of small children due to their falling into uncovered open borewells and tubewells for fixing liability of persons/officers agencies responsible for such incidents and to initiate appropriate proceedings, including criminal prosecution against such persons,” observed the court. Singh, whose Sarvebhyo Foundation has closed several open borewells in Mahoba region, has also designed an mobile app ‘open borewell child safe’ that is available on Playstore for reporting open borewells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uphrc-to-state-govt-station-sdrf-ndrf-team-in-bundelkhand-region-to-check-open-borewell-mishaps-101635611461290.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: South MCD releases ₹41.60 lakh budget for Chhath celebrations||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Saturday released a budget of ₹41.60 lakh for providing lighting and other facilities to devotees during the Chhath Puja celebrations this year. SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that ₹40,000 will be allocated for two ghats in each ward of the corporation. The money will be spent for augmenting street lights in and around the ghats, ensuring sanitation and making other arrangements, he said.“For providing facilities at the ghats in all 104 wards, the civic agency has made a budget allocation of ₹41.60 lakh. The SDMC has allocated ₹20,000 per ghat for augmenting streetlights there and approach roads towards the ghats. Two ghats from each ward will have proper sanitation, cleanliness besides other facilities,” he said.He further said it is the responsibility of the civic agency to make all arrangements at ghats to facilitate the devotees since Chhath festival holds special importance for Delhi and a large number of people celebrate this festival.“The SDMC is making all possible arrangements, in accordance with the Covid protocols, to celebrate the festival. This fund will help in improving facilities for devotees at Chhath ghats. To facilitate the devotees, the SDMC will also set up booths at the ghats where volunteers will be deployed to help the devotees. Besides, we’ll also arrange ambulances and other health facilities at all ghats,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisouth-mcd-releases-41-60-lakh-budget-for-chhath-celebrations-101635611280600.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||October reports around 39% fall in Covid vaccination: BMC||Mumbai has reported a significant drop of 39% in inoculation in October as compared to the previous month’s figures. This can be attributed to the festive season and most of the eligible beneficiaries in the city being administered their first dose. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, around 95% of the city’s eligible population has been inoculated the first dose, while 56% of people have been fully vaccinated. According to civic body data, between September 1 and 29, over 2.6 million citizens were vaccinated, while the number dropped to 1.6 million until October 29. The data also shows that there has been no shortage of doses, as the civic body received 1.6 million doses in October against 1.7 million doses the previous month. This means that the civic body has surplus vaccine doses in stock.In terms of private and public vaccination centres, both have witnessed a major fall in the number of beneficiaries in October, compared to September. In private hospitals, nearly 300,000 citizens took vaccines until October 29, compared to around one million in the same period during September. In public vaccination centres, over 1.3 million citizens took vaccines in October compared to over 1.6 million during the same corresponding period in September.Dr Sonam Solanki, consultant pulmonologist at Masina Hospital said, “There has been a decline in the number of beneficiaries of the vaccine. There are multiple reasons for that. Due to the festive season, many people are travelling. The concern and scare regarding Covid have gone down, which is why the people are not getting vaccinated.”Dr Solanki added, “Secondly, there is a subset of patients who have gotten Covid after the first dose, and as per the mandatory requirement they have to wait another three months before taking the second dose. Another subset of the patients feels that the vaccine is not required and are still worried about the side effects, the long-term and the short term effects of the vaccine which is why they are not taking it.”BMC officials also point at festivals like Navratri, Dussehra as the reasons for the drop in the percentage. The BMC targets to fully vaccinate 9.2 million adult population above the age of 18 years by February 2022. “If the Central government allows, even booster doses may have to be administered. Till now 56% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated and 95% have got at least the first dose,” said the official.Further, the BMC received the highest of over 1.7 million vaccine doses in September, 1.6 million doses in October being the second highest followed by 996,860 vaccine doses in August, 983,390 doses in July and 739,190 in June. In May, the BMC got 523,440 vaccine doses, 947,500 in April, 810,950 in March, 571,000 in February and 265,000 in January 2021. The vaccination drive was kicked off in the city on January 16, 2021, with healthcare workers. This is followed by front-line workers, senior citizens, those between 45 to 59 and lastly those between 18 to 45 starting May 2021.Meanwhile, on Saturday 54,153 vaccine doses were administered taking the total count to 14,119,732. Out of the total vaccine doses administered, 5,300,344 citizens are fully vaccinated in the city..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/october-reports-around-39-fall-in-covid-vaccination-bmc-101635611254012.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Police bust fake call centre duping US nationals in Malviya Nagar, 5 held||New Delhi: The city police on Saturday said they have arrested five men who allegedly duped foreigners, mostly US nationals, through a fake call centre offering to provide technical support in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. Police said the call centre was operating from a flat in Khirki extension for the last 10 months. They identified the suspects as Nikhil Saini (20), Rahul Sharma (30), Parth (25), Rahul Singh (30) and Anant Kamat (26).Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said police had received a tip off about a fake call centre operating from the top floor of a building in JA block of Khirki Extension, following which a team raided the centre on Thursday and arrested the five men.Police also seized five computers and routers from the centre, and officials said they are analysing the payment records mentioned in two registers found in the flat.“The arrested persons disclosed that they posed as a technical advisor and contacted US nationals offering support. They would ask their victims to pay anywhere from USD 100 to USD 400 for their help,” DCP Jaiker said. Police said they are trying to figure out how many people were duped by the suspects. Police are also on the lookout for the owner of the flat, who they suspect is also involved in the fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhipolice-bust-fake-call-centre-duping-us-nationals-in-malviya-nagar-5-held-101635611252404.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Young environmental activists petition for climate education in Delhi schools||New Delhi: A group of young environmental activists have started an online petition, requesting the Delhi and central governments to include climate education in Delhi schools to sensitise youngsters about the impact of the global climate crisis. Aniket Gupta, a young Delhi-based environment activist, who started the petition, said introducing climate literacy in the school curriculum has become a necessity, considering the fast degradation of the environment globally and the extreme weather events that are being reported worldwide. “I think awareness of climate change isn’t enough. We need to sensitise children too from an early age. Record-breaking heat waves, changing rainfall patterns, dust storms and increasing air pollution scares me about my future and the future of generations to come. If as children we are not taught about the climate crisis, and what we can do to stop this cycle of permanent damage to our planet in even the smallest of ways we can, there is no way we will live to see a green planet again,” Gupta said. He added, “Just a few loose mentions of global warming and deforestation in school textbooks will not help. We need a comprehensive curriculum that not only creates awareness among kids about their natural world but also sensitises them towards the beings that they share this planet with.” Gupta is supported by three other co-petitioners, Aditya Dubey, Seher Taneja and Dwishojoyee Banerjee, who are also students and have been regularly raising their voice against various aspects of environment degradation in the national capital. Ever since the petition was started on Change.org late September, they have also met Aam Aadmi Party legislators, and senior leaders from the BJP, who have agreed to support their demands and raise it before their respective governments for consideration. “We are in touch with our area (Krishna Nagar) MLA, SK Bagga. He has agreed to hear our proposal. We are also presenting our proposal to the vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, Jasmine Shah. Charu Pragya, lawyer and BJP spokesperson, has also accepted our proposal and promised to present it to education minister, Dharmendra Pradhan,” Gupta said. A Delhi government spokesperson said that they will consider the proposal once it comes before them. Experts said that such a proposal by the young generation should be taken seriously by the political representatives. “In the times that we are in, environment has to be the centre of all discussions. One of the ways by which we can make masses sensitive towards the environmental crisis is to catch them early. It will be a good idea to have young children know about what is happening around them and how they can make things better,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/young-environmental-activists-petition-for-climate-education-in-delhi-schools-101635611228428.html
30-10-2021||Patna||FIR against SDPI activists for ‘raising provocative slogans’ in Patna||The Bihar police on Saturday registered an FIR against four named and 40 unidentified members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) who allegedly raised provocative slogans during an unauthorised procession in the Phulwarisharif police station area of Patna on Friday. The FIR said that people were defying lockdown orders and trying to stir up communal tension in the area. SDPI is said to be the political outfit of the Islamic organisation Popular Front of India (PFI). Police said that the members of SDPI took out a procession on Friday against the alleged violence in Tripura where a mosque was vandalised and shops and houses were attacked during a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) rally on Tuesday afternoon. The members tried to enter the main market when there was a hustle between policemen and protestors. More than 100 members of SDPI staged the protest condemning the violence in Tripura and the state police which allegedly did not stop the violence. The procession started from Ishapur and concluded near the police station roundabout. However, the members of the SDPI were not paying heed to the police’s appeals and were continuing their activities. SHO of Phulwarisharif police station Rafique-Ur-Rahman said that an FIR has been lodged on the statement of Circle Officer Chandan Kumar against Engineer Ehsan Parvej, general secretary of the SDPI, besides Athar Parvej, Sabbir Mallik, Mohammad Sarfaraj and Kaushar Bano. “An FIR was lodged under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), Section ¾ of the Epidemic Act and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fir-against-sdpi-activists-for-raising-provocative-slogans-in-patna-101635610980535.html
30-10-2021||Other||Lucknow University’s psychology department organises TB awareness programme||Lucknow The department of psychology, Lucknow University (LU), under the aegis of National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP), Lucknow, organised an awareness programme on Tuberculosis (TB) at its Happy Thinking Laboratory here on Friday. The objective of the event was to create awareness about etiology, treatment, prevention and other aspects of TB. The programme started with a welcome address by director of Happy Thinking Laboratory, Prof Madhurima Pradhan and it was followed by the dean of arts faculty, Prof Shashi Shukla, who educated participants about the history of the disease. Ram Ji Verma, from NTEP, cleared some common myths and answered queries of faculty members as well as students. Abhay Chandra Mitra, senior treatment supervisor, explained the history, working of the NTEP and public health measures as well as prevention through a Power Point presentation. Around 50 members of the Red Ribbon Club were also awarded with certificates for their active participation in the awareness programme. Red Ribbon Club, which works for awareness about TB, was constituted by Dr Manini Srivastava under co-ordination of Dr Archana Shukla. The event concluded with the releasing red balloons into the sky by the guests and the student volunteers with a promise to play their part in raising awareness and making India TB free. Vote of thanks was given by Dr Archana Shukla, coordinator, psychology department, LU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-university-s-psychology-department-organises-tb-awareness-programme-101635610800832.html
30-10-2021||Patna||Patna: Inspector’s properties raided in DA case||Sleuths of Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of the Bihar Police on Saturday raided the official and residential premises of police inspector in Patna and Saran districts in connection with a disproportionate assets (DA) case.The inspector, Kamlesh Sharma, is currently posted as the station house officer of Jakkanpur police station in state capital Patna.Additional director general (EoU), N H Khan, said a DA case of ₹2.3 crore was lodged against Sharma with the EOU police station in Patna on Saturday and search orders were obtained from the court concerned. Sharma, a 1994-batch sub-inspector, who was promoted as inspector on March 4, 2014, has served as SHO in Patna, Gaya, Banka, Nalanda and Bhagalpur districts. EOU teams raided Sharma’s paternal residence at Maker in Saran, official residence at Jakkanpur and two flats in the state capital bought in his wife’s name. Besides, EoU also seized ₹92.80 lakh in the bank accounts of Sharma and his wife Rashmi. The agency said 11 bank accounts, investments in post office and life assurance papers were seized during the search. “The search operation is over and the scrutiny of the seized documents will be done by the investigators,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnainspectors-properties-raided-in-dacase-101635610560458.html
30-10-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur hooch tragedy: SHO, SI axed after two more deaths||Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant on Saturday suspended the station house officer (SHO) and sub-inspector (S-I) of Saraiya police station over dereliction of duty following the deaths of two more people allegedly after consuming spurious liquor during different parties held this week at separate places.“SHO Ravindra Kumar Yadav and S-I Mohammad Kalamuddin have been put under suspension,” said the SSP. The death toll in the suspected spurious liquor tragedy has reached seven. “Muzaffarpur Sadar hospital conducted the autopsy and sent the viscera to a forensic lab in Patna to ascertain the reason behind deaths,” he added. Both victims, identified as Munna of Vishwambharpur and Devendra Bhagat of Deori-Ema village, died during treatment late on Friday night. At least six others were reportedly ill after drinking what is suspected to be spurious liquor and undergoing treatment. They complained about vision loss, a source said. Meanwhile, the SSP said that the police sealed two houses, including the host Bipul Sahi’s residence, who also died after the party. It is the third major hooch incident reported in Muzaffarpur since January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-hooch-tragedy-sho-si-axed-after-two-more-deaths-101635610263914.html
30-10-2021||Other||‘They didn’t take politics seriously’: Mamata’s fresh jibe at Congress in Goa||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee renewed her attack on the Congress accusing the party of being incapable of taking on the BJP whilst also backing the comments by political strategist Prashant Kishor who made similar comments two days ago at a private function in Goa.Speaking during a breakfast interaction with media persons, Banerjee said that while it wasn’t her business to be talking about the affairs of other parties, she slammed the Congress for contesting against her in the recently concluded West Bengal Assembly Elections and said that they should not expect flowers in return.“I cannot say everything right now because they didn’t take politics seriously,” she responded when asked whether she would consider being part of a larger grand alliance that included the Congress to take on the BJP in 2024.“Modiji is going to be so powerful because of Congress. If one cannot make a decision, why should the country suffer for that? They have got enough opportunities. Instead of BJP, they contested against me in my state. How do they expect that they will contest me and we will only give flowers and sweets to them?” Mamata said. “I want to see that all regional parties are strong. We are a union of states and the federal structure should be strong. If the state is strong, the centre is strong. Delhi ka dadagiri anik naka (We don’t want bullying from Delhi anymore). Enough is enough,” Mamata said.“We want committed people, the committed local political parties who are really fighting, who really want to fight against the BJP, let us work together,” she added.Backing comments made by political strategist Prashant Kishor, Banerjee said that his comments were a reflection of the present scenario.“You have taken one side of his comments. I believe that he has said that if the BJP is to be defeated, then you can’t be going about it like the Congress. That’s not how the BJP will be defeated. He has said that if the BJP is to be fought, it has to be fought strongly,” Banerjee said.Her comments came on the second day of her three-day visit to the state. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is also in the state visiting, meeting and interacting with people.Banerjee also took on the BJP for a host of issues including sky-high fuel prices, low vaccination rates, the farmers’ protest and harassment of dissidents.“First you (BJP) increase the price (of fuel) and then ask us to reduce? Why are you increasing the price? We never increased the price. Are you not even worried about the country? Is there no worry for you?” she asked. “The farmers are sitting for one year in protest. The BJP is not even looking at them. What all lies about vaccines. So many people have not even taken one dose of the vaccine. Only 29% of the people have taken both doses but we have 1.3 billion people, where has it all gone? What about the PM Cares Fund? The central government has taken money from the employees from every sector. And it’s not even going to be audited and if I question then they will send the ED to my house or CBI,” she added.Banerjee spent the day visiting the Basilica of Bom Jesus besides also visiting a market in north Goa and giving a brief speech.Earlier in the day, she met Goa Forward party members Vijai Sardesai on the back of having met members of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and a bunch of independents.“She made a statement that all have to go together and throw out the BJP. To welcome this proposal, I and my MLAs had come together to meet her because, for the last two years, I have been saying that Team Goa has to fight to take on the BJP. We have to take it to the next gear. We came here to speak about how we can take this proposal forward. She has given her opinion on this. Our party will think about this and make a decision,” Sardesai said after emerging from the meeting with Banerjee.Meanwhile, the BJP has dispatched Member of Parliament from Bangalore, Tejaswi Surya, to counter Banerjee’s Goa visit and accused her of terrorism, mafia and corruption (TMC) to counter her temple, mosque, church acronym in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/they-didn-t-take-politics-seriously-mamata-s-fresh-jibe-at-congress-in-goa-101635610261974.html
30-10-2021||Other||Reopening of Dudhwa National Park postponed till Nov 15||Lakhimpur Kheri: The wildlife enthusiasts and nature lovers, planning to go for Dudhwa safari, will have to wait for at least two more weeks. In view of the heavy water-logging inside Dudhwa National Park and Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary, caused by recent floods in Kheri, the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) authorities have postponed the reopening of Dudhwa National Park till November 15. It was scheduled to open on November 1. “Due to heavy water-logging prevailing in the park area, the reopening of Dudhwa park from November 1 has been postponed as jungle routes are not fit for the movement of tourists,” said field director, DTR, Sanjay Kumar Pathak. Pathak said, “We hope to open up the park on November 15, however, a suitable decision will be taken on November 8 after a review meeting.” World-famous Dudhwa National Park was scheduled to reopen from November 1 to kick start the tourist season. The park authorities had geared up to greet the visitors after corona pandemic-induced lockdown. Tharu huts and guest houses were repaired and whitewashed, jungle routes were repaired and Dudhwa Safari Gypsies were arranged. However, the untimely rains on October 18 and 19 and heavy discharge of 53,3000 cusec waters into Sharda on October 19 changed the entire situation, leading to massive floods, resulting in heavy water-logging in Dudhwa and Kishanpur jungles. The jungle routes turned muddy and whitewashing of the huts and guesthouses was washed away. Dudhwa deputy director Kailash Prakash also said that the reopening of Dudhwa from November 1 was not possible due to water-logging. The decision to open the park for the tourists would be taken next week. “The jungle routes have turned slushy besides waterlogging. Hence, the plan to reopen the park for tourists has been postponed until the situation improves,” he said. Until 2019, the tiger reserve used to be reopened for public on November 15 every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reopening-of-dudhwa-national-park-postponed-till-nov-15-101635610200711.html
30-10-2021||Patna||Lalu’s meeting with BJP leader alarms Cong||A meeting between Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Rajya Sabha member R K Sinha with Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad on Friday night, on the eve of polling for the two assembly seats on Saturday, raised the political heat in Bihar, with Congress reiterating its allegations of a “possible tie-up between BJP and RJD.”The meeting, which took place at Prasad’s wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi’s residence, was also attended by leader of opposition in state assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, and RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary. “It was a mere courtesy call to enquire about well-being of Lalu Prasad. I know Lalu since Patna University students’ union days. I spent close to two hours there, but no politics was discussed. He is undergoing treatment for some ailments which I also had. He enquired about the places where he can get treated,” said Sinha.Lalu, who was convicted and jailed in Jharkhand in December 2017 in fodder scam cases, returned to Patna earlier this week after a gap of over three-and-a-half years. Sinha, who has a RSS background, had only recently appealed to voters, particularly those belonging to Kayastha community, to vote for the National Democratic Alliance in assembly by-polls. He had also praised the development in Bihar during Nitish Kumar’s government and inflation control under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. However, Congress, which claimed to have severed its ties with RJD after announcing its exit from Grand Alliance in Bihar, smelt something “foul” in the meeting. “This proves our earlier allegation that the two parties (BJP and RJD) have entered into a secret agreement. What were these leaders negotiating and discussing?” asked Congress spokesperson Anand Madab, who also posted a picture of the meeting on the social media and urged voters of the two assembly seats to “understand the real game”. RJD denied Congress’s allegations. “The two have known each other for a long time. RJD doesn’t need to take secular certificate from anybody. Personal relations should not be linked with politics,” said RJD spokesperson Chitaranjan Gagan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalus-meeting-with-bjp-leader-alarms-cong-101635609300540.html
30-10-2021||Patna||Less than 50% vote in Bihar bypolls||The by-election for two assembly seats in Bihar, Tarapur in Munger district and Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga district, both won by chief minister’s party Janata Dal (United) in 2020 state polls, concluded peacefully on Saturday, recording a voter turnout of 49.59%, much lower than the 54.76% recorded last year. Counting of votes will take place on November 2, officials said.State’s chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa and additional director general of police (headquarter) Jitendra Singh Gangwar, at a press conference after the polls, said no untoward incident was reported during the polling.“Twelve people were arrested as a preventive measure during the polls,” Gangwar said.A total of 17 candidates are in the fray for the two seats. The contest became triangular when allies Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress fell out and fielded candidates for both seats. In 2020, the two parties had unsuccessfully contested from one seat each — RJD from Tarapur and Congress from Kusheshwar Asthan. In Tarapur, Congress has fielded Rajesh Kumar Singh, who is pitted against Arun Kumar of RJD and Rajiv Kumar Singh of JD(U).In Kusheshwar Asthan, JD(U)’s Aman Bhushan Hazari, whose father Shashi Bhushan Hazari had won the seat in 2020, is up against Ganesh Bharti of RJD and and Atirek Kumar of Congress. Atirek’s father Dr Ashok Kumar has won the seat multiple times in the past and holds considerable influence in the area. Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas), the Chirag Paswan faction of the LJP, has also fielded candidates from both the seats. The high-octane campaign for the bypolls was joined by ailing RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who returned to Bihar earlier this week after a gap of more than three-and-a-half years following his incarceration in a Jharkhand jail in fodder scam cases.Congress, in a rare display of assertiveness in dealing with RJD, fielded its new catch, Kanhaiya Kumar, for the campaigning.Meanwhile, CEO Srinivasa told reporters that the poll panel was looking into an audio clip being circulated in the social media in which a former block development officer posted at Kusheshwar Asthan is purportedly heard talking apparently to a person close to JD(U) nominee Aman Bhushan Hazari in an intimidating tone and cautioning him to refrain from indulging in any malpractice. “ We have also received the audio clip . We are enquiring into the matter and will take suitable action,” he said. JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said the audio clip showed how the former BDO, posted in Gaya now, was trying to influence polls in favour of one party. “ They were all making allegations of misuse of official machinery in the polls. See how this officer previously posted in Kusheshwar Asthan is restless to work for one party,” Kumar said, in an apparent dig at RJD which had recently sought the removal of a police officer, alleging he was working in a partisan manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/less-than-50-vote-in-bihar-bypolls-101635609120567.html
30-10-2021||Other||10 Hindu candidates selected as Urdu teacher, 2 Muslims to teach Sanskrit in UP govt schools||PRAYAGRAJ: Breaking the language barrier and in an indication of changing times, 10 Hindu candidates have been selected as Urdu teacher while two Muslim candidates have been declared successful to teach Sanskrit, in government-aided secondary schools of the state, according to the final results of TGT and PGT Recruitment-2021 (including the waiting list) declared recently by UP Secondary Education Services Selection Board (UPSESSB). Deputy secretary of UPSESSB Naval Kishore informed that the final results of TGT Recruitment-2021 (all 16 subjects) and PGT Recruitment-2021 (20 out of total 23 subjects) have been declared and made available on the official website of UPSESSB— https://upsessb.pariksha.nic.in/. “The process of institution allotment of these selected candidates is now underway,” he said. In the merit list, Neeraj Kumar at the 54th position, Bharat Lal at 56th place, Hari Lal at 57th position, besides Ajay Kumar, Vicky Kumar, Rajveer Sagar, Vinod Kumar and Santosh Kumar, have all been selected as Urdu teacher for boys’ wing of the schools, the official stated. Likewise, Ranjana Devi at 11th position and Rekha Pushkar at 12th position, in TGT Recrtiment-2021, have been selected to teach Urdu subject in girls’ schools, he added. According to Kishore, all these Hindu candidates are from Scheduled Caste (SC) category. Names of Neeraj Kumar, Santosh Kumar and Vimal Kumar Sharma are included in the waiting list of TGT Urdu for boy wing of the schools. Interestingly, Zahara Gul, a woman candidate belonging to the Muslim community, has been selected as a post graduate teacher for Sanskrit subject. Out of the 34 posts of PGT Sanskrit for Girls wing of the schools, Zahara of OBC category, has bagged 16th position. There is no Muslim candidate in the main list of 232 posts of PGT for Sanskrit. However, another Muslim candidate Ekhlaq Uddin Khan has figured at the 268th position in the waiting list of PGT for Sanskrit subject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-hindu-candidates-selected-as-urdu-teacher-2-muslims-to-teach-sanskrit-in-up-govt-schools-101635608700340.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Worli fisherfolk occupy sea near coastal road site, say won’t vacate until demands met||Between 120 and 150 fishing boats from Worli Koliwada on Saturday occupied a portion of the sea near the coastal road construction site, where work is underway on building an interchange to connect the coastal road and the Banda-Worli Sea Link (BWSL). The fisherfolk said that this segment of the controversial infra project will cut off access to their customary fishing grounds, and have refused to vacate the area until their demand for a redesign is met. Boats have been parked in the alignment of the interchange since around 8am on Saturday, and Worli’s fisherfolk have appealed to other fishing communities across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to join the agitation.HT had reported on October 17 that Cleveland Bunder – an artisanal fishing port in Worli Koliwada – is at the risk of permanent closure owing to the coastal road, specifically the interchange. The civic body plans to construct two connecting bridges between the south-end of BWSL and the north end of the coastal road, as part of a link that will allow traffic to flow seamlessly between the two. Fisherfolk said this interchange will run parallel to Cleveland Bunder and severely constrict the only navigational route available to boats venturing out to open seas.On October 14, nearly 200 boats from across the Worli fishing zone had gheraoed a temporary jetty at the coastal road construction site as a mark of protest. They demanded to meet with the civic body officials and Worli legislator and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray. Thackeray, along with officials, met with two community leaders including the president of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsyavevsay Sahakari Society (WKNMSS) on October 25 and assured to look into the matter and respond within a few days. However, the community leaders said there is no response yet. HT reached out to Thackeray’s representative, but the minister was unavailable for comment.Meanwhile, pre-construction activities on the interchange have continued, with movement of barges and tugboats in the Koliwada’s customary fishing grounds. Fisherfolk were also informed by the civic body on October 8 that they will not be allowed to fish in a 500-metre strip of water stretching from Haji Ali to Bandra, to facilitate the movement of tugboats and barges, for a period of two years.“The movement of boats in our fishing grounds has already destroyed about 70 to 80 fishing nets. It costs between ₹70,000 and ₹1 lakh to get each net made. Who is going to pay for them? Not only will the interchange force us to shut down Cleveland Bunder, but we’ll also not be able to fish in our own waters for two years until the work is done. This is a gross violation of conditional clearances granted to the project, which clearly state that our activities cannot be impacted. We will not accept any outcome other than a redesign of the interchange. If that is not agreeable to the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) then we will continue to park our boats and won’t allow construction work to continue,” said Nitesh Patil, president, WKNVSS.In a letter to officials on October 24, representatives of WKNVSS wrote, “One of the specific conditions of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) clearance dated January 4, 2017, was as follows: ‘BMC to ensure that no fishing activity is hampered during construction and operation phase of the project’. Thereafter the final CRZ clearance dated May 11, 2017, was granted by MoEFCC (Union environment ministry), subject to the following specific condition: ‘Bridges with navigable spans will be provided by the project proponent as committed, so that there are no obstructions to fishing boats’.”The fisherfolk have maintained that their request for a navigable span, of at least 200 metres, as opposed to the proposed distance of 60 metres, under the interchange, has been raised formally on multiple occasions since 2016. The assistant commissioner of fisheries has also written to BMC and the fisheries commissioner in April 2017 and December 2018, respectively, pointing out to the fisherfolk’s concerns over possible closure of their only navigation route out to sea. Subsequently, in January 2019, the assistant commissioner of fisheries also wrote to fisheries commissioner saying that the department’s no objection certification (NOC) for the project should be re-examined in light of this predicament.Officials from BMC’s coastal roads department, including chief engineer Vijay Nighot, could not be reached for comment despite efforts. However, a senior official from the fisheries department, occupying the post of assistant commissioner, said, “The fisherfolk should not be impacted by the project. We will have a discussion on violations of our NOC on Monday.”“After the losses they have suffered already, the Worli fishers are asking for an increase in the navigation span just to be able to sustain their livelihood. This a just and reasonable demand. The fisherfolk are now counting on Thackeray to act on their behalf,” said Shweta Wagh, an architect and researcher with the Collective for Spatial Alternatives, who was present at Saturday’s protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/worli-fisherfolk-occupy-sea-near-coastal-road-site-say-won-t-vacate-until-demands-met-101635608341479.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP lawmaker, six rebel BSP MLAs join Samajwadi Party||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker and six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the presence of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the party’s state headquarters in Lucknow on Saturday.The development came a day after Yadav inducted two western UP Congress heavyweights, Harendra Malik (former MP) and his former MLA son Pankaj Malik, into the party.On Saturday, Rakesh Rathore, BJP MLA from Sitapur Sadar, joined Akhilesh’s party along with BSP rebel MLAs Aslam Raini (representing Bhinga in Shravasti), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Pratapur, Prayagraj), Aslam Ali Chaudhary (Dhalauna, Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia, Prayagraj), Sushma Patel (Mungra Badshapur, Jaunpur), and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli, Sitapur).The BSP suspended these MLAs after they opposed the nomination of the party’s official candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls last October.After inducting the seven MLAs, Akhilesh said, “After today, the chief minister will change his slogan from ‘Mera Parivaar, Bhajapa (my family, BJP)’ to Mera Parivaar, Bhaagta Parivaar (my family is running away).”The six rebel BSP MLAs met Akhilesh Yadav for the first time last year and then again in June this year. Rakesh Rathore, too, met Akhilesh more than once in the last six months and had been speaking against the BJP.Aslam Raini said, “We will ensure that the Samajwadi Party attains a record victory on all the seats. Last year, we had sensed that it is the SP that will oust the BJP and form the next government.”Rakesh Rathore said, “I am glad that the SP has embraced me, will work for the party’s victory and see Akhilesh Yadav as the next chief minister.”Referring to Rathore’s joining, the SP chief said, “Now, the honourable (chief minister) must get the house cleaned for Diwali and make way for us.”Openly attacking the Congress for the first time, he said, “The BJP is Congress, the Congress is the BJP.” He had been hitting out at only the BJP till now, avoiding any attack on the BSP or the Congress.On Monday (October 25), former BSP leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar announced joining the Samajwadi Party at a rally in Ambedkar Nagar on November 7 in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav.For the last one-and-a-half years, the Samajwadi Party has been attracting leaders from other parties, largely the BSP and the Congress. The switchovers have intensified as the assembly polls are due early next year. Akhilesh Yadav has been repeatedly saying that “any leader who wishes to join the SP is welcome”.He also said, “The SP will not ally with any big political party, but will instead opt for strategic alliances with small regional parties.”Recently, Akhilesh Yadav cemented an alliance with the SBSP (Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party), a former BJP ally-turned-rival.Senior Uttar Pradesh minister and state government spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh said that Samajwadi Party may have been making lofty claims of victory in the 2022 assembly polls but the fact remains that it has been inducting “rejects” of other parties to complete its list of 403 candidates. It only manifested the desperation of Akhilesh who had been busy taking in leaders from other parties left and right, clearly showing his party did not have candidates to field in 2022 elections, the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-lawmaker-six-rebel-bsp-mlas-join-samajwadi-party-101635608282183.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Pillion rider killed in hit-and-run in Lonikand||PUNE A man riding pillion with his cousin succumbed to the injuries caused after a speeding car rammed into them from behind in the Lonikand area. The accident happened on October 23 and a case was registered on Friday.The deceased man was identified as Sachin Tukaram Kakade (35), a resident of Taleranwadi in Kesnanad.A complaint was lodged by Lailas Kakade (33), a resident of Wagholi. The deceased man is a cousin brother of the complainant and the two were riding together when the accident happened.The complainant was riding the bike while the deceased man was sitting behind on the bike around 5:30pm on October 30 along Teur-Kesnand road in Undre Vasti.The unidentified car driver rammed into the motorbike from behind and fled from the spot, according to the police.A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 337, 338, and 427 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pillion-rider-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-lonikand-101635607980383.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||NMMC to conduct surveys of its gardens in Navi Mumbai||Following the footsteps of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has also decided to conduct surveys and grade its gardens in the satellite city.This will help them improve the condition of the gardens, a senior officer said.There are a total of 250 gardens in Navi Mumbai including 150 big ones. Jaydeep Pawar, deputy municipal commissioner of NMMC (garden department and tree authority), said, “If the residents are not happy with the condition of our gardens, they will definitely complain about it. So, instead of waiting for their complaints, we ourselves should find out the gardens that are in a bad shape. Therefore, we have decided to conduct this survey and based on our findings, we will grade the gardens as A, B, C and D.” Pawar said that during the survey, they would take different aspects of the gardens such as size, seating arrangements, jogging tracks, open air gyms, toilets, streetlights, greenery and cleanliness among others into consideration. “The survey will be started just after Diwali and completed within a month. We will immediately start working on the gardens that receive low grades,” he added.Around 70 gardens in Navi Mumbai have open air gym facilities. Almost all of them have garbage composting units. Barring a few, entry to all gardens is free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-to-conduct-surveys-of-its-gardens-in-navi-mumbai-101635606003353.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Many framed in false cases by NCB, I have more proof: Nawab Malik||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik again hit out at Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede saying that many of the drug-related cases registered by the officer were fake and he had an army of private people used to frame people in fake cases by placing drugs after raids.Malik said he will produce more proof to corroborate his claims and expose Wankhede. He alleged that Wankhede implicated people and tried to delay their bail for cheap publicity.Malik also said that the drugs were provided on the cruise through a catering service from a restaurant. He also raised questions over the ownership of the restaurant. Malik said that one girl spoke to the media about her sister who was allegedly framed by Wankhede in a false case. He said hundreds of such people will come forward to expose Wankhede.“I am will submit the documents and proofs to the director-general (DG) of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for further investigation. NCB has framed Aryan Khan and others in a bogus case registered after the cruise drugs bust. The seizure was not done from the cruise ship, but the photographs released, were taken in Wankhede’s office. Wankhede has an army of private people, who would plant drugs in the houses of the people. Fletcher Patel, KP Gosavi, Adil Usmani are part of the ‘Wankhede gang’ involved in these cases. Wankhede has never involved NCB employees and officers in taking action against the drug peddling,” Malik said.Wankhede and his team arrested Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan and a few others for their alleged involvement in the cruise drugs party on October 2.Malik for the past three weeks has been levelling serious allegations against Wankhede and NCB over their vigilance, discrepancies in investigation and the information related to the officer’s religion. Malik has raised serious questions over the handling of a cruise drug bust accused Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, by Kiran Gosavi who is facing serious cases and a BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushali.Malik had also released birth and marriage certificates of Wankhede claiming that he was a Muslim, but has secured the IRS job in the Scheduled Caste category. Malik, who earlier in the week, produced an anonymous letter reportedly of an NCB employee who had claimed that 23 cases registered by the agency were fake, said that he has collected more proof.“We have collected more proofs to establish how fake cases were registered by Wankhede. He would implicate people in fake cases. We are going to expose it in due course,” he said.Malik reiterated that Kashiff Khan, managing director of Fashion TV, was the organiser of the party and he was involved in the consumption of the drugs, despite which, no action was taken against him.“Khan, whose full name is Kashiff Malik Khan has said that I have levelled allegations against him out of misunderstanding. But I have proofs to show his involvement in organising the party, the cases he is facing and his criminal background. I have information about a restaurant from where the catering service was given on the cruise and the drugs were supplied through it, ”he said.Malik while speaking to the media in Gondia on Saturday, said that Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan should have gotten the bail much earlier. “My stand is very clear. The people who are hardcore criminals, terrorists should be put behind the bars, but the ones who can produce themselves whenever demanded or who are not going to run away should be given bail. The bail is the right of the accused. However, Wankhede for the publicity, ensured that the accused were not given bail for days,” he said.Late on Saturday, Nawab Malik also tweeted a photograph raising questions over his identity and his relationship with Sameer Wankhede and his father. “Who is this person? What ishis relation with Dawood Wankhede and Semeer Dawood Wankhede? Please let us know,” he tweeted.Reacting to the statement by vice chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Caste Arun Haldar over the caste certificate of Wankhede, Malik said, “The vice chairman has announced his result on the grievance. But let me tell him that the issuing authority for the certificate is Mumbai collectorate. I am not surprised by his (Haldar’s) statement as he is a BJP leader,” Malik said.Wankhede on Saturday met Halder and handed over an application to him over the questions raised on his caste certificate and alleged ‘harassment’. Halder later said, “He has denied the allegations of any religious conversion. After listening to his complaint, I think he is from a Scheduled Caste,” he said in Delhi. Wankhede has been refuting all the allegations levelled by Malik. He said on Friday, “These are malicious allegations to target my reputation. They are false and are being levelled for the first time in the 15 years of my service. I condemn the attempt in strong words.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/many-framed-in-false-cases-by-ncb-i-have-more-proof-nawab-malik-101635605280360.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Security strengthened at Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation in Belapur||The headquarters of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) in Belapur has just become more secure with the entire security system getting a major overhaul.The decision comes following instructions by Navi Mumbai police and other agencies and also at the backdrop of recent politically-influenced incidents within the premises.The NMMC headquarters is visited by a large number of citizens daily for various works. There are also agitations, rallies following which delegations meet officials at the headquarters. The building has recently witnessed clashes between NCP and BJP party workers outside the city engineer’s office while earlier, NCP party workers had taken away the chair of an official in protest over their demands.Following the incidents, municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, had started taking measures to upgrade the security of the building and has now formally issued clear instructions.According to Bangar, “There have been instructions from various agencies to strengthen the security of the building. Similar instructions have come from Navi Mumbai police commissioner’s office as well to take further security measures. There is also the case of the strategic location of the building next to the creek area with the possibility of a terror attack or actions by anti-social elements that make it a sensitive issue.“We also need to ensure Covid norms are strictly followed in view of the large number of people crowding in the building to prevent a renewed outbreak of the Covid pandemic.”An order is issued with respect to the entry to the building and other measures. It pertains to the timing the visitors would be allowed and a clear process for the same. There are rules in place for our officials and personnel as well. He added, “We want to ensure that while the citizens get their work done from various departments in specified time, the officials and personnel, too, get to do their work smoothly. These norms will not only ensure smooth functioning of the civic body but also ensure the security management is strengthened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/security-strengthened-at-navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-in-belapur-101635605166601.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Coalition government will come to power at Centre in 2024: Sanjay Raut||PUNE Single party era will end after 2024 Lok Sabha election and a coalition government will come to power at the Centre, claimed Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut.Raut was in the city on Saturday where he interacted with the media at the Pune Union of Working Journalists (PUWJ) office.Raut said, “Single party era will end in 2024, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not come to power. Even Maharashtra unit of BJP had the largest number of MLAs but they did not form a government, the same would happen at the Centre after the 2024 elections.”When reporters asked whether Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would be part of central leadership, he replied that Thackeray has all the capabilities and ability to lead at the national level.Congress to play a major roleWhile asked if Congress would be part of the alliance, Raut said, “While allying at the national level, it cannot happen without Congress party. It is the only party which has a presence in all the states across the country.”Raut said, “In the upcoming municipal elections in Pune it is our wish that the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) contest the election together.”Raut said that the Shiv Sena is planning to contest the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Right now, Sena is contesting elections in Dadra Nagar Haveli and preparations are underway in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coalition-government-will-come-to-power-at-centre-in-2024-sanjay-raut-101635604680172.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||4 including mother arrested by Kamothe police for trying to sell two-and-a-half-month old baby||The Kamothe police have arrested four people including a doctor and a woman for trying to sell her sixth child, a two-and-a-half-month old girl, for ₹4 lakh.The arrested have been identified as the child’s mother, Amarin Bano Badarbakhsh Ali (31), her friend who encouraged her to sell, Rukhsar Nadin Sheikh (29), and mediators Rajni Pandurang Jadhav (32) and Dr. Pankaj Patil.On Friday, Kamothe police received information about a baby being sold at Family Health Care Hospital in Kamothe. Accordingly, the police team laid a trap at the hospital after sending a decoy as a buyer of the baby.“The decoy made the payment and after that, the doctor made a phone call to check on the whereabouts of the baby and then informed the decoy that the baby was on the way. The mother and two other women reached the hospital and gave the baby after which the team nabbed them,” DCP, zone II, Shivraj Patil, said.According to police, the accused mother, a resident of Taloja village, had three sons and two daughters and this was her sixth child. The mother was unemployed and her husband had abandoned her following which it was difficult for her to meet the ends. Sheikh gave her the idea of selling the youngest child. The four of them were arrested under Sections 370 (human trafficking) of the IPC and Sections 81 and 87 of the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-including-mother-arrested-by-kamothe-police-for-trying-to-sell-two-and-a-half-month-old-baby-101635602760042.html
30-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC sets aside order on transferring whistleblower IFS officer’s petition||The Uttarakhand high court has set aside the December 4, 2020 order of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in which the Tribunal transferred the hearing of Indian Forest Services (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi’s petition from CAT’s Nainital Circuit Bench to the principal bench in Delhi. The HC ruled that reasoning contained in the impugned order is “legally unsustainable”. Chaturvedi, a 2002 IFS batch officer, presently posted as the chief conservator of forests (CCF) in Haldwani Nainital, filed a petition in CAT Nainital bench in February 2020 alleging that the recruitment of the joint secretary-level posts through contract system in the Union government for a period of three to five years, a policy decision taken in 2019, was arbitrary, irrational, and ridden with irregularities, which need to be investigated. In October 2020, the Centre filed a transfer petition requesting the transfer of the case from CAT’s Nainital Bench to the principal bench in Delhi. On December 4, 2020, the CAT principal bench transferred Chaturvedi’s petition from Nainital Bench to the principal bench, Delhi. Following this, Chaturvedi filed a writ petition in the HC on December 16, 2020, challenging the transfer of his petition. Hearing Chaturvedi’s petition, the division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and Justice NS Dhanik issued the order on October 23, but a copy of the order was uploaded on Friday evening. HT has a copy of the order. The HC order said according to Rakesh Thapliyal, Assistant Solicitor General appearing for Centre, “since the decision with regard to a policy decision of the Centre would have nationwide repercussions, therefore, only the principal bench is a suitable bench for deciding the validity of the policy decision… since no cause of action had arisen in Uttarakhand, the Nainital Circuit Bench does not have the territorial jurisdiction to hear the petition... since the relevant files are lying in New Delhi, and since relevant witnesses would be available in New Delhi, it would be in the interest of justice to transfer the case to the Principal Bench, rather than keeping the case pending before the Nainital Circuit Bench”. The HC order stated that “the impugned order tends to create an impression that somehow the Principal Bench is the superior Bench to other Benches of the CAT, which are functioning throughout the country. Since all the Benches including the Principal Bench, are equal, such a misimpression cannot be made in the mind of the litigant. For, the Principal Bench cannot be allowed to robe itself with a superior authority which was never given to it by the Administrative Tribunal Act, 1985. After all, the Principal Bench cannot be permitted to be a usurper of the power”. The HC order stressed that the CAT principal bench should have considered the convenience of both parties. The HC said the Centre has sufficient means for shifting the files from New Delhi to Nainital Bench, adding that files can be transferred even electronically. “A bare perusal of the impugned order clearly reveals that the Tribunal has failed to consider the hardship caused to the petitioner… on every date of hearing, it is the petitioner who would be required to travel from Haldwani to New Delhi. His travelling would not only entail financial expenditure but also require time and energy. It will also necessitate that the petitioner should take leave from his work, thereby, preventing him from discharging his official duties. Travelling from Haldwani to New Delhi would also adversely affect his physical health, and psychological makeup… Thus, the balance of convenience is in favour of the petitioner”. The court also argued that the “policy to hire the Joint Secretaries on a contractual basis, for three to five years, adversely affects the petitioner’s right of consideration for the said post. Such a policy decision, prima facie, does affect the petitioner’s right of consideration in the state of Uttarakhand. Therefore, a part of the cause of action does arise in the State of Uttarakhand...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-sets-aside-order-on-transferring-whistleblower-ifs-officer-s-petition-101635601741598.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar Municipal Transport to resume bus services after 8 years||Eight years after it was stopped, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) has decided to resume its transport service under the Ulhasnagar Municipal Transport (UMT) banner. The civic body has now initiated the procedure for the same.The UMT bus services were operational not only in the city but also connected to the nearby cities of Ambernath and Badlapur. It was stopped eight years ago due to poor response and losses. With this initiative to resume the services, the civic body plans to acquire 20 electric buses initially. The civic body also plans to run these buses within the city and to the nearby cities too.In 2010, the UMC started the bus services through a private contractor in the city. After three years, the bus services were stalled due to financial loss. In the last eight years, not a single UMT bus has been running in the city.“The civic body is in talks with companies dealing with buses. Through e-tendering, a company will be finalised and 20 electric buses will be purchased for the city. The company will bear the cost for the driver and the maintenance of the buses while the civic body will look after the appointment of the conductor and ticket sales,” said an officer of UMC.“Once the 20 buses are acquired and the response is good, we will acquire more buses in future for the city,” added the officer. Mahesh Punjwani, 35, a resident of Ulhasnagar Camp 5, said, “There are no other modes of transportation in the city apart from the auto rickshaws. The bus facility will be a major relief from the hefty fares charged by the auto drivers. I travel to Kalyan daily for work by auto and it cost me a lot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-municipal-transport-to-resume-bus-services-after-8-years-101635601681635.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Vashi man arrested for raping minor girl||A 23-year-old man from Vashi has been arrested by the police on Friday for allegedly raping a minor girl.According to the police, the accused, Nilesh Jadhav, stayed in the same neighbourhood as the 17-year-old survivor.Ramesh Chavan, senior inspector of Vashi police station, said, “The case was registered with us after nearly two months when the survivor narrated the incident to her family members. However, the accused went into hiding by then. In the early hours of Friday, he had come to his residence to meet his family members. We learned about it and caught hold of him before he could flee again,” The police booked the accused under Sections 354 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was produced before the judicial court and has been remanded to police custody till November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vashi-man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-101635600959857.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Grocery shops in Pune under FDA’s scanner ahead of Diwali||Along with sweet marts, the Food Drug and Administration (FDA), Pune division, will be keeping a watch on grocery shops for selling adulterated food items during the festive season.Many people have complained regarding vendors selling adulterated khoya, edible oil, maida and farsan. The FDA has planned strict action against such vendors.“Sixteen officers and five additional commissioners are on duty to conduct the raids. Since last one week, surprise raids have been conducted. We have issued a circular to all grocery shop owners regarding norms while selling food products like edible oil and different flours,” said Shivaji Desai, joint commissioner, (food), FDA Pune.The FDA department has also appealed to people to buy food products like khoya, edible oil, and maida from the shops which have a license for selling such products.“We have released a notification in the public domain for the wholesalers, retailers and buyers. Following the protocol is important for all of them. Raids are also conducted on sweet marts,” added Desai.During the Ganesh festival – many sweet mart shop owners from rural Pune were fined for not mentioning expiry dates on the boxes“In the last one week there are fewer complaints from rural Pune,” said an officer from FDA on the request of anonymity.The FDA had initiated fines against 103 sweet shops in Pune, rural Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas for not displaying expiry dates on boxes during the Ganesh festival and Navratri.The owner of Vishal general stores, who has a shop at Parihar chowk, said, “Via video conferencing meetings we have been guided by FDA and explained regarding what protocols we need to follow while selling food products during Diwali.”Deepak Iyer, who has put up a makeshift shop at Erandwane, said, “I have got the required license from FDA for putting up my stall. All the food products which I am selling in my shop have food safety and standard authority of India (FSSAI) license number on them. All products are safe to consume.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grocery-shops-in-pune-under-fda-s-scanner-ahead-of-diwali-101635600601606.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli man arrested for raping 9-year-old daughter repeatedly||Vishnunagar police have arrested an alcoholic man who allegedly raped his nine-year-old daughter repeatedly for the past few months after forcibly giving her alcohol. He used to physically assault his wife too. The wife sought help from an NGO and social workers, and filed a case against the man.The 49-year-old accused, a resident of Dombivli, works as a photographer. Police said that he’d beat his wife, who went to her native with her eight-year-old daughter, leaving the nine-year-old with the father. He allegedly forcefully told her that he’d give her a bath. Despite her refusal, he touched her inappropriately and raped her. The girl told her mother and she confronted her husband about the same but he refused the allegations and scolded the girl. The second time, the accused asked the girl to sleep with him at night and at around 2 am, woke her up and raped again. Her mother asked her the next day the reason why she was crying. The girl told her everything. During and after these incidents, the accused had forcefully fed alcohol to them several times.Sub-inspector S Kapile said, “We arrested the accused for his cruel behaviour towards his young daughters under Sections 376AB, 354A, 324 and other sections of POCSO. He beat up his daughter and their mother several times in an inebriated state and sexually assaulted his nine-year-old daughter several times in the past few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-man-arrested-for-raping-9-year-old-daughter-repeatedly-101635600479983.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Adulterated diesel scam: Wada police officer transferred||An inspector, in charge of Wada police station, has been transferred to a low-profile department in Dahanu with immediate effect, by the Palghar police district administration for failing to take action against the ₹16.20 crore adulterated diesel scam in Wada. Inspector Sudhir Sankhe has been transferred for overlooking the spurious diesel scam.The Solapur police had recently arrested seven persons involved in the diesel scam and had sealed Sai Om Petrochemicals in Wada. The spurious chemical-laden diesel was manufactured in Wada firm and later transported to Solapur and other areas for sale in the state.Senior inspector Sanjay Salunkhe of Solapur police with his team had sealed the Wada unit, located at Khupri village in Wada, Palghar, after the seven arrested accused divulged that they procured the adulterated diesel for sale in Solapur, Kolhapur, Sangli and even in adjoining areas of Telangana. The main users of adulterated diesel were long-distance luxury buses and taxis. The drivers made forged bills of sale to cheat their employers, said police. An open parking ground, off the Pune-Hyderabad road, belonging to a private bus agency, was the main centre where the adulterated diesel was filled in private luxury long-distance buses, an officer said.“We raided the spot and the racket came light. The main source of production of spurious diesel was the Wada petrochemical unit,” he added.The police have arrested Himanshu Bhumkar, 21, of Barshi taluka, along with Tanaji Tate, Yuvraj Prabhalkar, Avinash Ganje, Sudhakar Ganje and two others under Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and sections 379 (theft), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 287, 336 (endangering human life), 465, 467, 468, 471 (forgery) of the Indian Penal Code. “The accused are in police custody and further probe is on,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/adulterated-diesel-scam-wada-police-officer-transferred-101635600059942.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Daily positivity rate falls to 1.92% in Thane ahead of Diwali||Thane city’s weekly positivity rate has fallen to 1.92% from 2.34% that was recorded in the first week of October. Increased testing and fewer cases in the last two weeks have lowered the positivity rate in the city, claim Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and experts.“We have increased testing ahead of Diwali to more than 3,000 daily. However, persons should be interested or those with symptoms can be tested. Among those who are positive, there are around 60% who are asymptomatic. This makes it difficult to trace those with symptoms and to conduct tests. There continues to be reluctance as well among those who have been fully vaccinated to undergo a Covid test,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.The daily positive cases in the city have also become less. October 25 recorded 23 daily positive cases, the lowest since April 13, 2020, when the city recorded the same number of cases. Currently, on a regular basis, the city has been recording less than 50 daily positive cases.In the first week after lockdown relaxations on August 15, the weekly average was 46. By the last week of August, it increased to 54.2 and 62.75 in the first week of September. By the last week of September, the weekly average continued to be at 58. Meanwhile, in the last week of October and a week before Diwali celebrations begin, the weekly average is at 38.TMC was testing more than 4000 till June. During the peak of the second wave, they conducted 10,000 tests as well on a regular basis. In February, just before the advent of the second wave, the testing was reduced to less than 4,000 when the number of positive cases saw a spike. Despite this, TMC is conducting fewer tests while its neighbouring cities of Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai have both increased their number of daily tests.Dr Dinesh Samel, associate professor, department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Rajiv Gandhi Medical College, Kalwa, said, “This is a positive sign. If increased testing led to more cases, it would have been a cause for concern. But, the last few days’ positivity rate shows that the situation has improved. However, people should not become complacent. They should continue to maintain all Covid protocols during the festival season as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-positivity-rate-falls-to-1-92-in-thane-ahead-of-diwali-101635599521000.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Burglar boasts about his short stint with Aryan Khan in jail, lands in police net again||Giving interviews to news channels and boasting about his short stint with actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan inside Arthur Road jail in Mumbai proved costly for a 44-year-old barrack-mate of Aryan Khan. Police identified Shrawan Nadar, who was lodged in barrack number 1 with Aryan, when he was giving interviews to news channels and arrested him in pending cases. Originally from Tamil Nadu, Mankhurd resident Nadar was lodged at Arthur Road jail after his arrest in a theft case of Matunga police station. On Saturday, he boasted before television cameras that he was lodged in the same barrack, in which 23-year-old Aryan was lodged. He said, two came to the jail almost the same time. In around 10 days he was granted bail and accordingly he walked out of the jail. On Thursday when Bombay high court granted bail to Aryan and two others, Nadar went to Arthur Road jail, expecting Aryan would come out, but it didn’t happen. At the time, Nadar spoke to media persons and claimed that he saw Aryan weeping inside the jail and he also had a haircut etc. He also claimed that Aryan requested him to go and meet his father (Shah Rukh Khan) in Bandra and asked him to send some money inside the jail. He said, accordingly he had visited Mannat in Bandra to see Aryan’s family and give them his message. But security persons did not entertain him. “It is not clear whether Aryan asked him to send a message to his family or Nadar planned to extract money from his family, but one thing is verified that he was also in barrack number 1 where Aryan was lodged,” said a police officer. “While Nadar was busy giving interviews to news channels, describing Aryan’s life inside the jail, coincidentally, Juhu police officers who were looking for Nadar for past eight months in a housebreaking case, spotted him (Nadar) on the television screen. They immediately alerted local crime branch (unit-3) officials, following which Nadar was immediately detained from outside the jail and was taken to the crime branch unit. Later he was handed over to the Juhu police,” said a crime branch officer, requesting anonymity. Senior inspector Shashikant Mane of Juhu police station said, “Nadar has 13 cases of housebreaking and thefts against him. He has three cases on him from our police stations and was wanted in a housebreaking case for the past eight months. A local court on Friday remanded him to police custody up to November 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/burglar-boasts-about-his-short-stint-with-aryan-khan-in-jail-lands-in-police-net-again-101635599219874.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai magistrate court issues non-bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh||MumbaiAn additional chief metropolitan magistrate on Saturday issued a non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Riyaz Bhati – a purported aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim – and one Vinay Singh. The magistrate, Sudhir Bhajipale, issued the warrant acting on a plea filed by the Mumbai crime branch, which is investigating an extortion case registered against Singh and others at Goregaon police station. Advocates Shekhar Jagtap and Sairuchita Chowdhury, who appeared for the crime branch, informed the court that they had already served summons at Singh’s Mumbai and Chandigarh addresses, asking him to join the investigations. He, however, has not appeared before the investigators, they added. Bhati and Vinay Singh were also served notices under 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code for appearance before the investigating officer and they, too, have failed to honour the notice, said Jagtap and Chowdhury. Their anticipatory bail applications have been rejected by the sessions court, the lawyers pointed out, and submitted copies of the relevant documents, summons and notices for perusal of the magistrate court. Goregaon police had in August registered an extortion case against Singh, dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze – arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases – and Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh and Bhati. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by hotelier and civic contractor Bimal Agarwal, alleging that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him. They also threatened to register cases against his hotel restaurant and bar. The crime branch has already arrested Sumeet Singh, who allegedly used to collect money for Vaze. According to crime branch officers, Vaze is the prime accused on whose orders money was collected by Sumeet Singh from Agarwal. On Thursday, the chief judicial magistrate court at Thane had issued a warrant against Singh in an extortion case registered against him at Thane Nagar police station. Meanwhile, the magistrate court on Saturday also rejected an application by Vaze for staying the execution of the production warrant issued against him by the additional chief metropolitan magistrate court. Vaze’s counsel Raunak Naik had argued that he had still not recovered after the bypass surgery performed on him on September 13. The magistrate court had issued a production warrant against Vaze, after which the special NIA court has allowed the crime branch to take him in their custody for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-magistrate-court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-101635599159879.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh refused to cooperate with ED without a valid reason: HC||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has refused to co-operate in the investigation by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) without any valid reason, the Bombay high court (HC) has observed in its detailed order, by which the petition filed by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was dismissed on Friday. “The applicant, without any valid reason, has refused to co-operate with the investigation by not attending the summonses issued by the authorities,” said the division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal while rejecting Deshmukh’s plea. “The applicant has failed to establish the case of legal and factual malice on the part of the respondent/directorate in proceeding with the investigation in question,” said the bench and rejected Deshmukh’s allegation that the money laundering case was initiated against him out of political vendetta. ED has registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) against Deshmukh on the basis of the April 21 first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The April 21 FIR has been registered against the NCP leader on the basis of the allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh that Deshmukh had instructed certain officers, including dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Waze, to collect a monthly sum of ₹100 crore from various establishments such as bars, dance bars and hookah parlours in Mumbai. ED has been issuing summons to Deshmukh since June 25, but he has not appeared before the agency so far. On September 1, the former home minister had moved HC, questioning the repeated summons issued to him by ED and urged the court to allow him appear before the investigators through audio-video medium and produce documents sought by the agency through his representative. Apprehending arrest by ED, he had also sought protection from coercive steps. HC, however, rejected Deshmukh’s claim that the issuance of summons to him by ED was a clear abuse of power by the agency’s officers concerned and the summons were being issued with mala fide intent, and that Singh, who levelled allegations of corruption against him, have been booked for more heinous crimes. Instead, the court found force in submissions of additional solicitor general Anil Singh that while Deshmukh kept on proclaiming that he is ready and willing to co-operate, his conduct was entirely otherwise and for some reason or the other, he is avoiding attending ED office pursuant to the summons. “We find this submission as justified,” said HC. “If there are no mala fides and no illegality, then there is no question of not attending and cooperating with the investigation,” said the bench. HC said issuance of summons is part of the investigation and HCs would not interfere and interdict a lawful investigation, unless exceptional circumstances exist. “There is no jurisdictional error in the issuance of summonses as they have been issued by the officers duly authorised under the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act),” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-refused-to-cooperate-with-ed-without-a-valid-reason-hc-101635598320312.html
30-10-2021||Ranchi||Chhath Puja: Jharkhand allows celebrations at rivers, ponds; lifts lockdown||Jharkhand government on Friday allowed Chhath Puja celebrations at rivers and ponds while permitting other festivals to be celebrated publicly amid COVID-19.The restrictions on the functioning of shops had been fully lifted as decided in the meeting of the Disaster Management Authority headed by Chief Minister Hemant Soren. Earlier the shops could only function till 8 pm.Restrictions on Sunday are lifted fully. Markets and other business activities can resume the same way as they were before the lockdown period.The Jharkhand government has allowed 500 guests at weddings and marriage halls can now open with 50 per cent capacity.The government has permitted the clubs, cinemas to be open, while all stadiums can open with 50 per cent of capacity.In the rural areas, sports activities have been allowed with a gathering of 500 people.Age restriction is eased for coaching centres. Previously, it was allowed for students of 18 years of age.However, the schools for junior classes (1 to 5 standards) will remain closed till the situation becomes more favourable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/chhath-puja-jharkhand-allows-celebrations-at-rivers-ponds-lifts-lockdown-101635595498145.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces ₹416-crore relief package for cotton growers||The Punjab Government on Saturday announced a relief package of ₹416 crore to compensate farmers whose cotton crop has been damaged due to the pink bollworm attack. Also read: Punjab terminates power purchase pact with GVK Goindwal plantThe package was announced by state agriculture minister Randeep Nabha and revenue minister Aruna Chaudhary at a press conference in Chandigarh. After ascertaining the ground reality, it has been decided that farmers facing a loss of 26% to 36% of cotton crop damage would get ₹2,000 per acre, whereas those whose crop has been lost up to 74%, would get ₹5,400 per acre. The ministers said farmers with 76% to 100% damage would get a compensation of ₹12,000 per acre. This money will be directly transferred to the affected farmers, the ministers added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-announces-416-crore-relief-package-for-cotton-growers-101635596160252.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Zika in Uttar Pradesh: 3 new cases recorded, tally reaches 4 in Kanpur||Kanpur’s Zika tally rose to four after three more people were infected with the virus on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh recorded its first case of Zika virus on October 24 after an Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel tested positive for the viral disease in Kanpur.The state health authorities last week sent 22 samples of people who were in close contact with the infected for testing. Those 22 samples tested negative for Zika.The IAF personnel was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district and was suffering from fever for a few days before his admission. The Centre sent a team on Monday to assess the situation and it consisted of an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and RML Hospital, New Delhi.Officials at Pokharpur and Pardevanpurwa localities of Kanpur’s Chakeri area undertook sanitisation programmes including anti-larvae spraying, identification of fever patients, screening of seriously ill people and pregnant women in a bid to curb the further spread. The team also collected samples of a few people suffering from fever.Earlier this year, Kerala was the first state to have reported Zika.Zika virus is transmitted through the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito, the same species responsible for spreading diseases like dengue and chikungunya.Mild fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache and usually last for 2-7 days are the most common symptoms of Zika virus infection. Zika infection in pregnant women can cause a birth defect in their children called microcephaly that is a sign of incomplete brain development. The Zika virus can also act as a trigger of Guillain-Barré syndrome, neuropathy and myelitis in adults and older children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-in-uttar-pradesh-3-new-cases-recorded-tally-reaches-4-in-kanpur-101635595016430.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab terminates power purchase pact with GVK Goindwal plant||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday approved the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited’s (PSPCL) proposal to terminate the power purchase agreement (PPA) with GVK Goindwal Sahib (2x270 MW) plant. Subsequently, the PSPCL issued the termination notice to the company. Also read: Punjab: PSPCL to procure 500 MW solar powerThe termination of power purchase agreements (PPAs) made during the previous SAD-BJP government was the promise of the Congress before coming to power in the state and the previous dispensation of Capt Amarinder Singh was criticised for not doing enough to terminate them. This is the first agreement being terminated by Congress government in Punjab. Default notice issued for high power cost According to a government spokesperson, a preliminary default notice was issued by PSPCL to GVK on Saturday for the cancellation of PPA due to high power cost and falling lowest in the merit order, procurement of energy from GVK that had been restricted only within the range of 25% to 30% during most of the times of a year resulting in higher tariff of about ₹7.52 per unit for last year. The chief minister said this step had been taken to safeguard the interest of consumers of the state by way of reducing the burden of costly power. The spokesperson said the basic premise of entering into a PPA by GVK was to provide cheaper power to PSPCL. GVK had been generating energy by arranging coal from Coal India Limited under the Shakti Policy. As per the PPA, GVK was required to arrange a captive coal mine but it failed to do so, even after more than five years of synchronization with the grid, he said. The spokesman said the capacity charges are being decided by Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) based on capital cost of around ₹3,058 crore, which is equivalent to ₹1.61 per unit of the fixed cost. GVK moved appellate tribunal Going against this decision, the spokesperson said GVK moved the appellate tribunal for electricity (APTEL) for claiming a higher fixed cost to the tune of ₹2.50 per unit based on claims of capital cost of about ₹4,400 crore, which is pending adjudication. According to GVK, the spokesperson said that the variable cost is about ₹4.50 per unit and fixed cost is around ₹2.50 per unit. Thus, the total claim of GVK under tariff comes out to around ₹7 per unit, which is increased further due to surrender of its costly power. Therefore, the intention of GVK is clear that it requires to charge higher tariff which is not the basic premise on which the PPA was entered into with PSPCL. This was commercially unviable for PSPCL to continue the PPA with GVK. GVK defaulted on loan payments The spokesperson said GVK had defaulted by not clearing dues accrued to it, against the loans taken by it from lenders. Consequently, it had become a stressed asset and a resolution plan was required to be implemented by GVK, which it failed to do. Accordingly, lenders have approached the National Company Law Tribunals (NCLT) for a resolution plan for GVK, which is under consideration before the tribunal, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-terminates-power-purchase-pact-with-gvk-goindwal-plant-101635594299745.html
30-10-2021||Other||Forest minister directs officials to take measures to save big cats in Maharashtra||The death of 30 tigers prompted the Maharashtra government to review the mechanism of conservation of the big cats. A high-level meeting, involving Maharashtra Minister of State for Forests, Dattatray Bharne, and top officials of the ministry was held on Friday to evaluate the measures being taken to save the big cats following. The deaths of the tigers have been reported primarily from Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli since January this year. Expressing concern over the deaths of several tigers, Bharne asked the wildlife wing of the forest department to take “effective measures” to save tigers. A majority of these tigers fell victim to the poachers. On the other hand, as many as 35 people in the state were killed in tiger attacks in Maharashtra till October this year. The neighbouring Chandrapur district is a major flashpoint of man-animal conflict. Chandrapur, the tiger region of the state housing the famous Tadoba tiger sanctuary, reported 33 deaths this year alone. The forest minister also obtained information regarding the herd of elephants that entered Gadchiroli district recently from the adjoining state and asked the officers to make compensation available to farmers in Dhanora tehsil of Gadchiroli district as the elephants had damaged the crops. He sought a report on the stay of elephant herds in Maharashtra. After taking stock of the situation, Bharne asked the offices to initiate special measures to curb tiger deaths. He stressed upon creating awareness among people residing in areas near forests that were tiger habitats. The officers informed him that 42 persons were arrested in seven cases to check the incidents of poaching of tigers and other wild animals this year in the state. Bharne asked them to continue with the action. State forest chief, G Saiprakash, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and other senior officials were present in the meeting. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, took stock of the progress of works of the ambitious Gorewada International Zoo through a video conference on Friday. He asked the officers concerned to set the priorities and also press for timely completion of the work. Thackeray chaired the high-level meeting while Sitaram Kunte, chief secretary of Maharashtra; Vikas Kharge, principal secretary to the chief minister; OP Gupta, principal secretary (finance); Venugopal Reddy, principal secretary (forest); G Saiprakash, principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force); Sunil Limaye, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) were present. Gorewada International Zoo is named after Balasaheb Thackeray. The chief minister also asked the officers concerned to rope in businessmen and locals to make the project planning more effective. Further, he suggested bringing in various animals and birds from other countries. African safari, night safari, walk-in-aviary, tribal trail, walking trail and such projects should be started at Gorewada to attract tourists in greater numbers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-minister-directs-officials-to-take-measures-to-save-big-cats-in-maharashtra-101635594121263.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Plea to brand Navi Mumbai as Flamingo City catches CM Thackeray’s attention||Following the demand from a Navi Mumbai environmentalist to brand Navi Mumbai as the Flamingo City, CM Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Environment and Forest secretaries to take the suggestion forward.Responding to a plea by NatConnect Foundation to help conserve Navi Mumbai’s biodiversity, Thackeray marked the mail to Manisha Patankar Mhaiskar, Principal Secretary – Environment and P Venugopal Reddy, Forest Secretary.“We are happy that the CM response came in less than ten minutes and we will now follow up with the government departments,” NatConnect director, BN Kumar, said.NatConnect also requested the CM to facilitate Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) take over the wetlands at NRI and TS Chanakya in Nerul, and maintain them as wetlands with the help of the State Mangrove Cell.NMMC already maintains 24 lakes in urban as well as rural areas of the city under it. NMMC has also been painting the city with flamingo pictures and putting up sculptures to remind the people of the biodiversity. “We need to go beyond this and protect and conserve the birds,” Kumar said.Commenting on the Flamingo City proposal, Sunil Agrawal of Save Navi Mumbai Environment, said “It is long overdue to protect and conserve the city’s biodiversity. We need more and more green lungs as the so-called planned city is fast turning into a concrete jungle.”Apart from this, the environmentalists also requested authorities to conserve the NRI and TS Chanakya wetlands that are frequented by flamingoes.The Mangrove Cell has also expressed its desire to conserve these two wetlands as part of the satellite sanctuaries for the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary as proposed by BNHS.BNHS has suggested maintaining these wetlands as a risk mitigation measure for the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA). Birds from Thane sanctuary tend to fly to these and other wetlands for roosting during high tides. These two wetlands also attract thousands of migratory birds and are part of the city’s biodiversity.Supporting the idea of conserving the two wetlands, BNHS director, Bivash Pandav, said “We are blessed with such natural wetlands and must make all efforts to protect them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plea-to-brand-navi-mumbai-as-flamingo-city-catches-cm-thackeray-s-attention-101635593521009.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||Sistema.bio invests Rs200 million in biogas plant manufacturing unit in PuneMexico-based social enterprise Sistema.bio, a provider of high-quality anaerobic digestion technology to smallholder farmers, has invested ₹200 million in its first biogas plant manufacturing unit in Pune. The production facility is spread across 20,000 sq. ft. across 25 acres. By December 2021, Sistema.bio India aims to achieve a capacity of manufacturing 2,000 biodigesters per month, and achieve full capacity of the unit by March 2022.Camilo Pages, co-founder and chief production officer of Sistema.bio said, “We incorporated Sistema.bio India as an Indian entity in 2018 because we understood the country’s huge potential for biogas plants. The Pune facility will have the capacity to manufacture 30,000 biodigesters in a year and will help us cater to farmers across Asia and, in the near future, Africa.”Piyush Sohani, managing director, Sistema.bio India said, “With the vision to serve smallholder dairy farmers in the furthest corners of the country, we are now moving towards manufacturing our biodigesters in India to ensure that our products are even more affordable for the farmers and are available throughout the year. We will also export biodigesters made in India to African and South-Asian countries.”Legrand India inaugurates Innoval in PuneLegrand India inaugurated its 12th state-of-the-art experience centre Innoval, housing the entire range of Legrand’s products including the newly launched connected offering, in Pune. Innoval is Legrand’s global brand of product showcases. The centre will host its India group company products – Legrand, Numeric and Valrack.Innoval’s design approach is based on the concept of Designeering. The purpose of this centre is to support all partners (investors, system integrator, architects, panel builder, end customer) by helping them to acquire new skills in order to better understand the market.Tony Berland, CEO and managing director, Legrand India said, “Customers are evolving and becoming more involved towards the product they are buying. This is a great way to establish dialogues with these new-age modern customers and to showcase new offers.”E42 raises $5.4 million in Series A roundLight Information Systems announced receipt of Series A investment of $5.4 million led by Pavestone Ventures. Their no code AI platform, E42, has fuelled enterprise cognition by automating complex, time-consuming, and resource-intensive processes so that they no longer require human intervention. The automation is powered by multifunctional cognitive agents or “AI Co-worker”, which enterprises can create and customise on the E42 platform based on their needs.The Pune-based company, founded in 2012 by Animesh Samuel and Sanjeev Menon, makes process-centric and people-centric automation easier across verticals by driving human-like cognition across these processes.Animesh Samuel, CEO, Light Information System said, “The funding will help us strengthen our research and partner ecosystems and help us scale and serve enterprises across geographies. We believe that an AI-driven strategy will be at the core of every business to succeed. We want to help these organisations in mapping out this strategy with the help of our multifunctional cognitive agents / AI Co-worker which will help these businesses succeed by optimising profits while reducing time-consuming and difficult processes. We want to open up our easy to deploy, maintain and migrate no code platform to enterprises and partners globally.”WebEngage Startup Program: Edition 2New-age retention operating system ‘WebEngage’ has announced the launch of second edition of WebEngage Startup Program, a growth accelerator for early-stage B2C startups.WebEngage has launched this Startup Programme with an objective to help startups nail the customer experience right from first impression, on boarding to post purchase. This year the programme will be open for startups across E-Commerce, D2C, Marketplaces, EdTech and FinTech segments.Applicants can enrol themselves free of cost by visiting https://webengage.com/startup-program. Applications close on 25th November, 2021. Once shortlisted, 50 startups will have a dedicated team of WebEngage advisors coach them accelerate their business.Selected startups will get access to WebEngage’s comprehensive Marketing Automation Suite with credits worth $25,000 for a period of six months. Members of the programme will get to participate in masterclasses on best practices in retention and engagement so that they can pave a path to accelerated growth.Avlesh Singh, co-founder & CEO, WebEngage, says, “Through the program, we aim to help startups to lay the groundwork for long-term retention, in setting the right dashboards and running highly personalised engagement across channels.”ASTRA 2022 programme: apply by November 26Applied Ventures has announced the third cohort of the ASTRA (Applied Start-up Technology and Research Accelerator) programme to collaborate with start-ups and to provide support in accelerating their innovations. Interested start-ups are invited to apply here by November 26, 2021.This cohort will focus on start-ups in the areas of life sciences, semiconductor and display manufacturing technologies, advanced optics and photonics, resilient supply chain, sensors, advanced materials, industry 4.0, and AI hardware. The finalists will be considered for collaboration with Applied Materials and investment from Applied Ventures.Applied Materials India will act as a consultant to the selected start-ups for addressing market and technology challenges and to explore potential scale-up pathways. The selected companies will also have access to the Applied infrastructure and ecosystem connect through this engagement. Om Nalamasu, President, Applied Ventures, said, “The mature and growing Indian high technology and entrepreneurial landscape is a great place for us to identify new white space opportunities focused on disruptive innovation with new products and business models.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101635592019618.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Robber shot dead, bid to loot gold from Ludhiana finance firm foiled||An alert security guard at Muthoot Finance Gold Loan’s Sundar Nagar branch in Ludhiana shot dead one of the three robbers who tried to rob the manager on Saturday morning after injuring him. Two of the robbers tried to escape from the spot. Police reached the spot and initiated investigation. Also read: At 105, India’s first voter Shyam Saran Negi votes for 33rd timeThe three robbers, impersonating as customers, entered the branch of Muthoot Finance as soon as the employee opened the office in the morning. They produced a gold chain, saying that they needed some loan against it. Before the employees could complete the formalities, the three walked towards the cabin where the safe containing mortgaged gold was kept. After the manager asked them to keep off, the robbers opened fire. A bullet hit the manager’s arm. The security guard opened fire and left one of the robbers seriously injured, while two of his accomplices fled. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Dharmpal said that the security guard displayed courage and foiled the robbery bid. This is the second such robbery bid at a Muthoot Finance office in Ludhiana. On October 16, 2020, six robbers had tried to rob the branch at Dugri Road after injuring three people. Three of the robbers were overpowered and handed over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robber-shot-dead-bid-to-loot-gold-from-ludhiana-finance-firm-foiled-101635591599411.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||After authority’s order, Mumbai district collector to investigate passengers’ refund issues||Mumbai district collector is set to investigate consumers’ travel refund issues against Mango travels, following the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA)’s order on October 5. This comes after Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), a voluntary consumer organisation, had received various consumer complaints against travel companies’ unjust behaviour of not refunding travellers for booked packages that stood cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic.HT is in possession of CCPA’s order. According to MGP, it received consumer grievances against various tourist companies with regard to non-refund of tour cost paid by consumers for package tours, which were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, due to which it conducted an online survey of affected consumers. The result of the survey conducted by MGP revealed a total of 48 complaints of 117 bookings against Mango Holidays India Pvt. Ltd. and amount of Rs.10,680,843 blocked by them.The survey had also revealed that more than half of the consumers were senior citizens wherein in it was not feasible and advisable for them to utilise the credit voucher unilaterally offered by the company in near future. Hence on behalf of various consumer complaints, we filed complaint against them” said MGP chairman Advocate. Shirish Deshpande.MGP said that the consumers had alleged that Mango Holidays had refused to refund the amount paid by the consumers towards their package tours and instead, it was offering a non-refundable and non-encashable credit shell to consumers after deducting substantial amount under various needs as ‘cancellation charges/ rescheduling charges’.“It is also alleged that Mango insisted consumers to undertake future tours much against their wishes and contrary to the health/ travel guidelines issued by the government. Our prayer is that Mango should refund not only these 117 travellers, but to all those whose tours got cancelled and refund them,” Deshpande added.Based on the examination of the organisation’s complaint, the Central Authority issued a show cause notice to the travel operator, on April 15, 2021. After which the travel operator had even submitted its response to the show cause notice via email on April 27, 2021. “It had denied all the allegations levelled against them and had also submitted that they did not indulge in any unfair trade practices,” Adv. Deshpande said.“CCPA has accepted that the deeds of the travel company is a case of unfair trade practise, prima facie. The matter was heard on May 28 and we received the order on October 5. Hence, an investigation will be done by Mumbai district collector,” Deshpande added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-authority-s-order-mumbai-district-collector-to-investigate-passengers-refund-issues-101635591561513.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: From Frido to free-go, medical mobility in cruise control||India has begun its inexorable climb towards the Japanese “valley of death”. The 60+ age group is the fastest growing demography. Birth rates are on decline and longevity is up. Japan hit those numbers a decade ago and have since been a nation struggling to cope with an ageing demograph.The Covid outbreak and subsequent lockdown period was when Arcatron Mobility pivoted and successfully overcame a ‘”Death Valley” of their own. For Arcatron Mobility –Arc stands for wheels and Tron for acceleration – the number that matters today is 110 million. That is the number of “senior” citizens (aged 60+) that exists in India.Demographically, overall India is still a very young country, but 100 million is a big number – big enough to consider senior citizens needing assistance to carry out daily activities, which include walking, sleeping, hearing, and going to the washroom. Ganesh Sonawane, Laxmikant Banjarey, Kunal Kamble and Dewaj Baruah started out as inventors. Today, these founders of Arcatron Mobility are businessmen, startup founders. The inventors have understood the monetisation aspect of the startup world and today, can claim to, like the company name, to have the wheels to accelerate to success.In the beginning… Sonawane, Banjare, Kamble and Baruah are NIT Calicut alumni. In college they began a club ‘Unwired’ and made a drone and radio-controlled aircraft. The “team” was born while bringing these projects ‘live’, they also got support from the institute. However, venturing into wheelchair manufacturing was a case of serendipity. Says Sonawane, “An NGO had come to our college and hosted a contest called Aavishkar. ‘Design for Disabled’ was the theme. When we participated in Aavishkar, where the prize was ₹30,000, we could not believe the videos shown to us. It was very simple problem statements; a disabled-women operating a wheelchair needing assistance to go to the washroom. Solutions for such problems were available in western countries decades ago, but in India it was unsolved. So, we developed a prototype and passed the design stage. We were offered a grant, but we were asked to form a company.”The foursome avoided the early bite and believed they were not ready for the jump; and industry work experience was the calling.“We were placed in big companies and got two years of hands-on experience. Later, we started exploring prototype building as a hobby. The idea was to convert a prototype into a product so that it reaches market and benefits people. We thought we will ‘IP’ it and give the licence to a manufacturer. While doing these activities we ran out of money and realised we had to raise funds. That’s when we approached big companies, but they were asking us business- related questions like, what is the market size? We were dumbstruck and had no clue on numbers and feasibility, cost…. Researching the market made us realise that this opportunity is big enough to explore the formation of a company,” Sonawane says. Product ecosystemSonawane says it is not easy to build a company around a small niche like the disabled population in India. He adds, “The rehabilitation ecosystem is strong in countries like US, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and also the Middle East, because the products are funded by insurance companies there. In India, products are not covered in health insurance. So, we knew that starting for only this segment would not make sense in terms of viability and sustainability. Elderly needs are also valid, but the product-ecosystem is completely broken.”“Even today, there is no good design for a walker in India. About 80 per cent products are still imported. That was the gap we decided to fill. We want a better world for ourselves, our parents and children. All should get better mobility devices when they need it. That’s why we started in 2015.”Why only buy cheap (Chinese) or buy exorbitant (Eurpoean)?Says Sonawane, “For the first two years, we were primarily doing only research and development. We also studied about other companies, including some abroad. There was no Indian company which had done any credible work in the wheelchair and other rehab products space. There were trivial innovations which had very low sales numbers. So, customers have only two choices, either buy cheap Chinese products or buy exorbitant European products. Both were not feasible.”“We knew that if we had to form a substantial company, we had to break this stigma. How to break it? And, how will we know that we have succeeded? One data point was that if premium clients like top hospitals, rehab institutions, tech savvy customers from India, who normally would buy only high-end imports, buy from us. Second data point was if customers or dealers from richest and advanced ecosystems buy from us. Neither of these had ever happened in India. We had zero background of product development, but we wanted to get the first 50 or 100 customers from this category,” Sonwane explained.“We picked up the shower-chair as a problem statement. We named it the ‘Frido-Go’ wheelchair which folds and fits into a suitcase and can be used for a shower as well as a multipurpose wheelchair for shorter period of time. We got 100 pre-orders even before launching. Most of them were from premium ‘Indian’ clients who were going to use Indian product for the first time. We also got orders from Canada, Europe, Israel, New Zealand, Luxembourg. The Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC) at Khadki was among our first customers,” Sonawane stated.Distribution: key bottleneckThe unconventional start worked for Sonawane and his team, but was short-lived. Says Sonawane, “We had a misconception; that we need to be innovating new products and we are sorted. There were a few early adopters, but that got saturated and was not scaling. We got 50 orders per month, but growth was stagnant.”“Elderly customers are not active searchers. Wheelchair users are sparse and at different locations. Awareness is also less. In this segment, there are 5,000 distributors in our country who sell surgical equipment, but for them it’s a commodity business. We knew that cracking distribution for our innovative product is going to be hard. Marketing and distribution were the key bottlenecks for us. So, we took an on-the-ground approach and decided to build a very basic product first. Everybody asks whether our chairs are motorised? That’s not relevant. Bathroom access was the problem statement we had picked,” said Sonawane.Strategic inflection pointAs is witnessed in the startup space, being good at innovation and not being able to scale is where 99 per cent of companies fail. Sonawane and his team also realised it, but managed to recover in time. The Covid outbreak and subsequent lockdown period was when they pivoted and successfully overcame what they call the ‘”Death Valley”. “Before Covid, our online sales were dismal. We were trying to get distributors to sell our product, but they could not understand it. We had a wrong strategy at that time. Innovative products can’t be sold through commoditised chains,” said Sonawane while sharing his learnings.“We had lot of dependency on China for spare parts. We started to feel the burn in November-December 2019 when our suppliers refused to continue supply. We did not have any backup. We started developing it, but by then Covid-19 came to India. There are 110 small-big parts in a wheelchair which are either procured or developed from 50 to 60 vendors. We do critical assembly and welding. All of that was not happening. After initial exemptions were given by government for medical equipment, we got the product up, but logistics was screwed. We could not track our products. We had to refund to customers. It was a strange experience and we realised that we can’t scale this product,” he added.And… the pivotReading the history of pandemics led Sonawane to a strategic inflection point. He wrote a memo to his team saying: “This is war. If we don’t adapt to this situation we will not survive. We have to do something drastically different to get through this”. Arcatron team participated in the Covid Cawach initiative of central government and also won a prize of ₹50 lakh for the concept and design of domestic high-scale manufacturing machines with UV treatment for surgical masks. They then backed out since the “government was too slow” releasing the funds.“We saw the inefficiencies in distribution of sanitiser and masks. We knew the manufacturers and saw that the distributors were looting. Utilising our supply chain expertise, I started with my family. We provided low-cost good quality masks at construction sites of my in-laws. First time we sold something that was not unique or innovative. We were just testing our sales and marketing skills. It was also a first time when we faced competition from big market players. In masks, we saw unique opportunity where the product was not proper and hence, we launched our own range of premium masks – ‘Frido’ – meaning ‘Freedom to do more’,” Sonawane said.Online successSays Sonawane, “Cloth masks had to be cleaned often and they were not comfortable for long use. People faced problems breathing. We solved all of it at once and launched copper and silver range of masks. They were comfortable and premium masks starting at ₹500. I took a personal interest and studied how Amazon marketing works. I started experimenting and within a week our sales started picking up. Within a month I felt that grip and our sales grew 5x. We cracked the online marketing bottleneck and now we are confident of launching any product and selling through Amazon. That was a new beginning for us. We understood how ‘direct to customer’ works and hence, we have a strong belief in future of commerce.”“Now, we are balancing between some product lines which will be cash cows and some products where long-term investment is involved. We got cash flow positive in April 2021 and we are profitable on month-on-month basis so far. Before this, for five years we were burning and had to be dependent on external investors or raise next round to move ahead. For a company like ours which has a socially relevant goal for long term, it becomes difficult to depend on external investors where you have to multiply very fast. Now we have figured out our own multiplication. We are investing our profits in long-term innovations. When that happened, we found more investment opportunities,” Sonawane claims.FundingArcatron Mobility has raised around ₹6.7 crore so far from Angel and Seed investors. It received first funding of ₹1.5 crore in July 2017 from Indian Angel Network. “Sudhir Mehta of Pinnacle Industries was our one of the first professional investors. Before that there was private friend and family network including Anup Hingorani, who were funding us. Mehta has also given us manufacturing support,” says Sonwane.“Initially, I had individually invested ₹10 lakh and Laxmikant and Kunal had put ₹5 lakh each. I raised personal debt from banks and friends and family to invest in the company. Most of that was put in when the company was going through a different time and we were not able to raise money. So far Individually I have invested around ₹70 lakh in the company. I was the biggest investor in the company as the next big angel investor was about ₹30 lakh,” Ganesh informed.King makersSonawane says, “Within a year, we have reached 3,000 orders a day (in June 2021) from 200 orders a day (in June 2020). With 300 orders per hour and 10 working hours, this rapid scaling pushed our limits from all ends. We realised that those who own the ‘market access’ are king makers. We are doubling and tripling in terms of our capabilities because that is the future of sales for all innovative products.”Future plans“We aim to be the market leader in mobility devices in India. We want to be known as the most trusted brands globally. Transit wheelchairs and standard wheelchairs are also scarce in market. Besides, we are looking to enter into affordable electric mobility for elderly and differently-abled persons,” says Ganesh Sonawane, co-founder, Arcatron Mobility||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-from-frido-to-free-go-medical-mobility-in-cruise-control-101635591539541.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Auto driver arrested for rape of Thane woman by promising her job||A 40-year-old Thane-based woman, who was lured with the promise of a job by an auto rickshaw driver, was raped by him while ferrying her from Thane to Bhandup. The incident occurred on a deserted patch between Bhandup and Vikhroli on October 23 while the complaint was registered at the Wagle Estate police station in Thane on October 29.Wagle police arrested the auto driver, Brij Mohan Giri, 40, who has been riding an auto for six to seven years, and handed over the case to Vikhroli police.According to the police, the woman had hired Giri’s auto to reach a placement agency. The driver heard her talking over the phone requesting to look for a job for her. Giri overheard the conversation and got her into some small talks. He told her that he knew a few people who could give her a job and took her phone number.The woman who stays with her husband and children was in need of a job as her family was in a dire situation due to the pandemic. The driver called her and assured that he could take her to a person who would hire her. He picked her up on Saturday morning and while on the Eastern Express Highway he stopped his auto between the bushes in Vikhroli and Bhandup. He asked her to follow him.An officer from Wagle Estate police station said, “The woman first went with him but as soon as he took her into the bushes, she refused to go inside. He forcefully took her inside, beat her up and raped her. Later, he threatened to kill her if she went to the police, snatched her gold chain, dropped her at her residence and fled the spot. The woman was initially scared but mustered courage and went to Wagle Estate police station on Friday to register a complaint against the man.“We registered FIR under rape and theft case, and arrested the accused while he was on duty in Thane. As the incident happened under the jurisdiction of Vikhroli police, we have handed over the case and the accused to them,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/auto-driver-arrested-for-rape-of-thane-woman-by-promising-her-job-101635591120876.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||At 105, India’s first voter Shyam Saran Negi votes for 33rd time||Shyam Saran Negi, 105, cast his vote for the 33rd time on Saturday as poll officials welcomed India’s first voter at the polling booth at Kalpa village in Himachal Pradesh by rolling out a red carpet for him during the Mandi parliamentary byelections. District officials escorted Negi to the polling booth inside a primary school built in 1890, which can be aptly dubbed as a nursery of Indian democracy. Negi has never missed his date with voting. Also read: Slow start to polling in Himachal Pradesh byelectionsPopularly known as Masterjee in the village, the wheelchair-bound centenarian was accorded a warm welcome with naib tehsildar Hari Ram accompanying him to the polling station, where he was felicitated. Born on July 1, 1917, according to official records, Negi was the first to vote in India’s maiden general election. Though the election was held in February 1952, polling in tribal Kinnaur was organised five months in advance in October owing to fears of inclement weather as the valley is snowbound in winter. Kalpa was called Chinni at that time. Negi was put on election duty but he cast his vote before moving to the polling booth assigned to him. Ever since, he has not missed voting a single election. Kalpa was the headquarters of Chini tehsil of the then Mahasu district of Himachal Pradesh. In 1960, Kinnaur district was carved out of Mahasu and Kalpa was made the district headquarters. In 1990, the district headquarters was shifted downhill at Reckong Peo for the administrative convenience of the people of Kinnaur. The voter turnout in Kalpa village has increased ever since Negi was declared India’s first voter. Before the introduction of EVMs, the polling percentage was 55% for Lok Sabha and 60-65% for Vidhan Sabha elections. After the introduction of EVMs in 2003 and increased awareness due to initiatives taken by the Election Commission and district administration, the poll percentage increased to 70% in parliamentary and 76% in the Vidhan Sabha elections. In 2012, then chief election commissioner Naveen Chawla had visited Negi’s home in Kalpa village of Kinnaur to acknowledge him as independent India’s first voter. During the 2014 elections, Google made a video featuring Negi for its pledge to vote campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-105-india-s-first-voter-shyam-saran-negi-votes-for-33rd-time-101635590039546.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Over 81.38% voter turnout reported in Ellenabad bypoll||Over 81.38% voter turnout was recorded in the Ellenabad bypoll in Haryana, election commission officials said. The voting had started at 7am and continued till 6pm.According to the election commission’s data, 81.38% voter turnout was reported in Ellenabad, while in the 2019 assembly polls, 83.24% voter turnout was recorded. Counting of votes will take place on November 2.After voting, the fate of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) candidate Abhay Singh Chautala, his former aide and Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal, and BJP’s Gobind Kanda is locked in the EVMs. Though 17 candidates are in fray, the main competition is between these three laeders.Sirsa deputy commissioner (DC) Anish Yadav said polling went smoothly and no incident of violence or unfair means was reported.“Tight security arrangements were made with deployment of 30 companies of the central security force, five companies of the rapid action force and the state police. Of the 211 booths, 121 were sensitive and hyper-sensitive. Ellenabad’s booth number 116 and Mehna Khera’s booth number 9 had been set up as model booths,” the DC added.After visiting Ellenabad constituency, Hisar range IGP Rakesh Arya said total 65 patrolling parties were formed to ensure free and fair elections.“We had installed 52 nakas on the borders of Punjab and Rajasthan,” Arya added.Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal cast his vote at his native Darba village. “I’m satisfied with the arrangements here,” he said.Thermal scanners in place, most voters weren’t wearing masksThe voters were in queue since 6.30am. Most voters in the rural areas are dependent on agriculture and voting is on amid mustard cultivation. Women and elderly voters outnumbered the youth at polling booths in the morning.Voters were being screened with thermal scanners at the polling booths but most of them were seen standing in queues without a face mask.Result of bypoll important for farm stir tooThe results of the Ellenabad bypoll is not just important for the BJP, INLD, and Congress but also for the farmers agitating against the Centre’s three farm laws.Rohtak-based political commentator Satish Tyagi said result of the bypoll will underline the impact of farmers’ stir against the farm laws, especially in Haryana.“This bypoll is being necessitated after Haryana became the epicentre of the farm stir and its results will definitely be a referendum to the farm laws,” Tyagi said.“If BJP loses from here with a big margin, then farm laws will have an impact and vice versa. The farmers have made this bypoll an issue of prestige for them and the BJP has also made all attempts to win the election and prove that there was no effect of farm laws,” Tyagi added.‘Matter of prestige’The bypoll was necessitated after INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala had resigned from the Haryana assembly on January 27 after the Republic Day violence at Red Fort, in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws.The Ellenabad bypoll is just as crucial for the INLD because it’s the only seat in the 90-member Haryana assembly from where the INLD had won in 2019.A decisive win would reassert the INLD’s stature in state politics, particularly in the Jat-dominated farming belt.On the other hand, the BJP sees the bypoll as a golden opportunity for it and a test for the INLD, which has been holding the agriculture-dominated seat since 1996.Abhay has been representing the constituency since 2010, while the BJP has never won from here. No member of the Chautala family has lost from here so far since 1966.This assembly seat includes 35% Jat voters, a majority of whom are dependent on agriculture. Hence, INLD’s Abhay has been expecting their support amid the farm agitation. However, the BJP is trying to get majority of the non-Jat chunk of votes as it has fielded turncoat Gobind Kanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/peaceful-polling-underway-in-haryana-s-ellenabad-101635587879303.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 2 factories fined for causing pollution in Muzaffarnagar||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board has imposed fines on two factories in Muzaffarnagar after receiving complaints regarding air pollution.According to UPCB regional officer Ankit Singh, a fine of ₹6,250 per day (now on) has been imposed on Vinayak Industries located on Jansath road.In another case, the board imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on a factory of brown sugar on Jolly road, which uses plastic waste in its production, causing pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-2-factories-fined-for-causing-pollution-in-muzaffarnagar-101635582506907.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Dengue crisis: Delhi hospitals to divert one-third of beds reserved for Covid cases||Amid a spike in cases of dengue in Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government has allowed hospitals in the national capital to divert one-third of the beds reserved for Covid-19 patients to those who are infected with dengue and other vector-borne diseases."All the hospitals under the GNCT of Delhi may use one-third of the beds reserved for treating Covid patients, including ICU beds, for treating patients of vector-borne diseases like Dengue/Malaria/Chikungunya, if required," according to the government order on Saturday.The order pointed out that many of the beds reserved for Covid-19 cases are lying vacant due to the decline in the number of infections.According to news agency PTI, out of the 10,594 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients in all hospitals, only 164 are occupied.Also Read| Kejriwal says Capital nearly winning the battle against dengueSince the beginning of this year, Delhi has reported 1,000 cases of dengue. Of these, 280 were reported last week, according to the civic body's report this Monday. The first death was recorded on October 18.Before this, the Delhi government reduced the 750 Covid-19 beds at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital to 450. Similarly, the beds at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital were reduced from 600 to 350.Hindustan Times reported on October 25 that doctors reported more than a 60 per cent surge in the number of dengue cases over the past month and said that due to this increase, the number of beds is filling up rapidly.A shortage of beds has already been reported in Safdarjung Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.However, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that there are adequate arrangements for dengue patients in state-run hospitals, adding that no patients are being turned away."They are Centre-run hospitals. We have adequate arrangements for dengue patients in Delhi government hospitals. No patients are being turned away," Jain told reporters.He added that a majority of patients in Delhi hospitals are from outside the national capital.Meanwhile, the government on Wednesday began a massive fogging drive to check the spread of dengue in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-crisis-hospitals-to-divert-one-third-of-beds-reserved-for-covid-cases-101635577713893.html
30-10-2021||Pune||'Welcome back': Pune airport resumes operations after a gap of 14 days||Pune airport resumed flight operations on Saturday, after a gap of 14 days. It was closed from October 16 to October 29 to complete the runway resurfacing work.The airport authority welcomed the passengers who arrived in the city on Saturday morning. "We are happy to welcome you back at Pune Airport," it said on Twitter."Flight Operations resume at #PuneAirport today. The first flight was an Indigo flight from Delhi 6E-2867 which arrived at 08:06 am with 100 passengers on board," Pune Airport further said in a subsequent tweet.Flight Operations resume at #PuneAirport today. The first flight was an Indigo flight from Delhi 6E-2867 which arrived at 08:06 am with 100 passengers on board. #WelcomeBack @AAI_Official @aairedwr @IndiGo6E pic.twitter.com/7Wia8tcW4HThe photos posted on Pune airport's Twitter handle showed officials welcoming the passengers with red roses.The operations have resumed from 8am to 8pm. The airport will continue to remain shut for night operation till November 30.At least 56 flights will be operational from Pune airport from Saturday.With travelling bans relaxed in the majority of states, people have started planning trips and airport reopening is a big relief for them.“Domestic traffic will go up as people are willing to go outstation. While many people are still not making any international travel plans,” said Ashwin Kardekar, director of My Travelogue Holidays Pvt Ltd.Right now, only domestic flights are operational from the Pune airport.Indian Air Force (IAF), which manages the runway operations, had said earlier this month that due to rapidly deteriorating condition of the runway and associated operating surfaces at the Air Force Station, Pune, the runway resurfacing had become urgent. It had closed the airport from October 16.Partial closure of the runway was done for 12 hours daily during night from October 26, 2020 to October 25, 2021 for the works, in order to cause the least disturbance to civil aviation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/welcome-back-pune-airport-resumes-operations-after-a-gap-of-14-days-101635580989557.html
30-10-2021||Indore||Indore to issue guidelines to control unauthorised news channel on social media||Indore district administration has said it will act against unauthorised news channels running on social media platforms such as Youtube, for spreading “fake news”, a senior district official said. Additional district magistrate Pawan Jain, who is also the nodal officer for cable TV digitisation, said the administration will release detailed guidelines under Section 144 of CrPC to control the mushrooming of unauthorised news channels telecasting on social media. Section 144 of CrPC gives selected district officials the power to issue an order in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger.“In coordination with the public relation department, we want to control the channels, which are being used for circulating hatred, for blackmailing and defaming people,” said Jain, noting that online channels and websites didn’t need to register with any platform and therefore verification of their credentials was an issue.“We have also asked MSOs (multiple-system operators) to get police verification done for their employees. Similarly, we will ensure through police verification that Youtube Channel and other news portal have not employed any hardcore criminals,” Jain added However, the journalist association and Youtube channel owners said while they don’t have any problem with guidelines but it shouldn’t be used to control “a new era of journalism”. “Many scams are being exposed by genuine Youtube news channel and WhatsApp newspaper so the government shouldn’t generalise that all news channels on Youtube are bogus. If they come up with guidelines that will harm the real journalism, we will oppose it,” said Arvind Tiwari, Indore Press Club president. Also Read: From Nov 15, MP to launch vaccination drive to cover entire population by yr-endA Youtube news channel owner, who didn’t wish to be named, said the guidelines should be made for safeguarding journalism and not to “kill it.” He added that he had registered his company as an MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises).Meanwhile, an Information Technology (IT) laws expert says the state government can frame guidelines under section 69 A (power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any information through any computer resource) and B (Power to authorise to monitor and collect traffic data or information through any computer resource for cyber security) of the IT Act. “...As of now, the channels can get authentication certificate from International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) but the state government should come up with guidelines under section 69 A and B of IT Act through IT department to authorise the channels.” said Yashdeep Chaturvedi, an IT law expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-to-issue-guidelines-to-control-unauthorised-news-channel-on-social-media-101635580618821.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||UP people suffering due to 'loot' of electricity bills, will end once...: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government, alleging that the state’s people are suffering due to the “loot” of electricity bills. Gandhi assured the “loot” will end once the Congress party comes to power in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, slated to be held next year.Priyanka Gandhi, who is the Congress general secretary, also tagged a media report which claimed that the state's electricity department has handed a bill notice of ₹19,19,09,993 to a labourer."The common people of the state are reeling due to the electricity bills and smart meters loot under the BJP rule," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "The electricity department gave a notice of ₹19 crore 19 lakh electricity bill to a family working hard to earn a living," she added."This ‘loot’ of electricity bills will be ended when the Congress forms the government in the state," Gandhi asserted.भाजपा राज में बिजली बिलों और स्मार्ट मीटरों की लूट से प्रदेश का आमजन बुरी तरह त्रस्त है।मेहनत मजूरी करने वाले एक परिवार को बिजली विभाग ने 19 करोड़ 19 लाख रु के बिजली बिल का नोटिस थमा दिया।कांग्रेस पार्टी की सरकार बनने पर बिजली बिलों की इस लूट को खत्म किया जाएगा। pic.twitter.com/ZAfN7Fc2lsPriyanka Gandhi Vadra earlier this month announced seven key promises of her party for the upcoming elections. Apart from promising 40 per cent of the party’s tickets for women candidates in UP, Gandhi also promised free e-Scooty and mobile phones for school girls, farm loan waiver, financial relief to poor families and relief on electricity bills.Gandhi Vadra also flagged off “pratigya yatras”, which are a part of Congress’ poll campaign for the UP elections, from Barabanki. The yatra began on October 23 and will cover 12,000 kilometres across the state by November 1.On Friday, the Congress leader attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh as she highlighted various issues being faced by farmers in the state. She highlighted that on one hand, farmers are dying standing in the queue for fertilisers in Bundelkhand and on the other, Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, the father of Ashish Mishra who is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, shared the stage with the Union home minister Amit Shah in of Lucknow.Priyanka added that the farmers of the country are watching the arrogance of the Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-people-suffering-due-to-loot-of-electricity-bills-will-end-once-priyanka-gandhi-101635575126338.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan reaches home as fans with ‘stay strong’ poster gather around||Hundreds of fans, some with "welcome home" posters and banners, were seen outside Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's home in Mumbai on Saturday as his son Aryan Khan was released after spending almost a month in the Arthur Road jail in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case."Welcome home Aryan Khan. Stay strong prince Aryan. Everything will be alright soon,” read a poster being held by several people outside Mannar, which was lit a day before.
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Slow start to polling in Himachal Pradesh byelections||Polling began on a slow note in the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kokhai assembly segments where byelections are being held with less than 10% voters turning up to exercise their franchise on Saturday morning. Also read: Bypolls 2021: Bengal turnout crosses 34%; big battles for BJP, CongressMandi recorded 6% polling up to 10am, while Arki and Fatehpur assembly segments reported 8% polling and Jubbal-Kotkhai recorded 7% voter turnout, said chief electoral officer C Paulrasu. Voting began at 8am will end at 6pm. He said the polling was going on smoothly and no complaint of EVM malfunction had been received so far. “Polling is likely to gather pace as the day progresses,” he said. 15.36 lakh voters to decide fate of 18 candidates More than 15.36 lakh voters in the four constituencies will decide the fate of 18 candidates in the fray. Mandi parliamentary seat fell vacant after the death of incumbent MP Ram Swaroop Sharma in April. The three assembly segments also fell vacant due to the death of sitting legislators, including former six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who represented Arki constituency. Of the 15,36,280 voters, 7,73,940 are men and 7,62,340 women. A total of 2,774 polling booths have been set up in Mandi parliamentary constituency that has 12,86,382 electors of whom 6,38,756 are women and 6,47,619 men. Polling is being held across 2,365 booths in 17 assembly segments of six districts, including Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Shimla, that comprise Mandi parliamentary seat. The main contest in Mandi is between Pratibha Singh of the Congress, who is a two-time former MP, and the BJP’s Brigadier Khushal Thakur, who is making his electoral debut. The election is significant being the home district of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. Triangular contests in Jubbal-Kotkhai, Fatehpur Among the three assembly segments, Arki has the highest number of 91,884 voters, comprising 45,401 women and 46,483 men. A total of 132 booths have been setup in Arki segment. BJP’s Rattan Pal is slugging it out against Sanjay Awasthi of Congress in the constituency. Jubbal-Kotkhai is headed for a triangular contest between Rohit Thakur of the Congress, Neelam Saraik of the BJP and independent candidate Chetan Bragta. The Jubbal-Kotkhai seat fell vacant following the death of MLA Narinder Singh Bragta. A total of 70,792 voters will exercise their franchise across 135 polling booths. As many as 35,166 voters are men and 35,626 women. In Fatehpur also the contest is triangular. The Congress has fielded Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, whose death necessitated the byelection. The BJP has made Baldev Thakur its nominee, while former MP Rajan Sushant is contesting as an independent. Among the 87,222 electors in Fatehpur, 44,665 are men and 42,528 women. A total of 141 polling booths have been set up in Fatehpur, comprising 111 main and 30 auxiliary booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slow-start-to-polling-in-himachal-pradesh-byelections-101635577438819.html
30-10-2021||Bhopal||From Nov 15, MP to launch vaccination drive to cover entire population by yr-end||From November 15, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Madhya Pradesh will launch a special vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in order to cover the entire eligible population of the state by the end of this year, news agency PTI reported on Saturday.Addressing a Covid-19 review meeting at his residence on Friday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the drive will be organised for people who have not received the first or the second vaccine dose so far.The Madhya Pradesh government is also planning to call people, who have taken the first dose, to remind them about getting the second jab against Covid-19.“School and college children should also be included in the awareness campaign so that they can encourage their parents to get vaccinated. Those people who got the first shot, but did not turn up for the second dose should be reminded by making phone calls through the call centre,” Chouhan said during the review meeting on Friday.The chief minister also directed officials to hold vaccine and testing camps during public programmes in the near future, PTI also reported.Previously, Madhya Pradesh had held mega vaccination drives in August and September. More than 70 million vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far of which 191,307 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.Madhya Pradesh's daily Covid-19 tally dropped to single-digit on Friday after nine new cases were reported, pushing the caseload to 792,832. Eight people were detected positive for the viral disease on Monday, October 25.No fresh deaths were reported for a second consecutive day and the toll till Friday remained unchanged at 10,524. The total recoveries and active cases in Madhya Pradesh stand at 782,195 and 113 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/from-nov-15-mp-to-launch-vaccination-drive-to-cover-entire-population-by-yrend-101635569518180.html
30-10-2021||Pune||Pune Police register fresh FIR against NCB witness Kiran Gosavi||A fresh FIR has been registered against Kiran Gosavi, an NCB witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, at a police station in Pune, said the police.Pune City police said that the FIR has been registered under sections 420, 465 and 468 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Lashkar Police Station on the basis of complaint given by three victims, who were cheated by Gosavi on the pretext of giving them jobs."Gosavi had taken a total of ₹4 lakhs from these three victims and had promised them jobs in Malaysia. However, he neither offered them a job nor returned their money," said the police.Kiran Gosavi is already in police custody till November 5 in a similar case registered with Faraskhana Police Station of Pune city.It is likely that the city police will register one more FIR against him at Wanowarie Police Station as one of the victims has given a similar complaint against Gosavi there.Amitabh Gupta, Pune City Police Commissioner on Friday has said that four more complaints at two different police stations about cheating by Kiran Gosavi were received."Section 465 (forgery) and Section 468 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been added against Gosavi in the case for allegedly forging several documents and using them at multiple places," the police had said in a statement.He was earlier booked under sections 419, 420 of the IPC along with relevant sections of the Information Technology (IT) Act. Gosavi, arrested by Pune City Police on charges of cheating, has been sent to police custody for eight days by a city court.Gosavi was arrested from the Katraj area of the city in the early hours of October 28 in connection with a cheating case of ₹18 lakh.He has also been booked by the Pune police at Kelwa Police station in Palghar for fraud on October 18 this year. As per the police, he had duped lakhs of rupees from people on the pretext of sending them abroad for jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-register-fresh-fir-against-ncb-witness-kiran-gosavi-101635573494131.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan walks out of jail nearly a month after arrest in drugs-on-cruise case||Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, was released from the Arthur Road prison on Saturday after nearly a month of his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case, which has been under the spotlight from the first day over the evidence collected and the investigative approach of the central agency.Aryan Khan was received by Shah Rukh Khan's bodyguards outside the jail. The 23-year-old Aryan Khan left in one of the cars waiting outside the Arthur Road prison for Mannat, his home in suburban Bandra, at around 11am after he spent another night in jail as his bail papers missed the deadline on Friday as his lawyers tried to gather documents required for his release. He was granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday.Also read | The Aryan Khan case is about constitutionalismThe Bombay high court issued its operative order on Friday and imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan and his co-accused in the case, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, stipulating their release on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount.Also watch | Aryan Khan released from jail, driven away in white SUV amid heavy security 
30-10-2021||Lucknow||One of UP’s most wanted gunned down in Chitrakoot jungle||One of Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted criminals Gauri Yadav, who carried a reward of ₹5.5 lakh on his head, was gunned down in an encounter by the Special Task Force (STF) of UP Police early Saturday morning, STF additional director general (ADG) Amitabh Yash said.The ADG said Yadav was gunned down at around 3.30am in a jungle area near Mudhabund village under Bahilpurwa police station limits of Chitrakoot district.He added that the encounter broke out when Yadav and members of his gang were camping for the night. “In the fierce gunbattle, dacoit gang leader Gauri Yadav was killed while some of his gang members managed to escape,” he stated.Also Read: UP first state to administer 13 crore Covid vaccine doses, says YogiThe ADG said STF recovered one AK-47 assault rifle, an old model Kalashnikov semi automatic rifle and one twelve bore gun (all factory made) apart from two country-made weapons and hundreds of live and used ammunition from the encounter site.He said Yadav had over 20 criminal cases of murder, extortion and kidnapping registered against him in Uttar Pradeh and Madhya Pradesh. MP Police had also declared ₹50,000 reward on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-of-up-s-most-wanted-gunned-down-in-chitrakoot-jungle-101635566398816.html
30-10-2021||Entertainment||Puneeth Rajkumar fans gather to catch a last glimpse of late actor. See pics||Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar's untimely death at 46 has left his fans in grief. Thousands of fans paid their last respects to the late actor at the Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru Friday night.According to ANI, his last rites will be performed with state honours, soon after his daughter arrives from the US. Puneeth has two daughters: Vanditha and Dhrithi.Son of actor Rajkumar, Puneeth was one of the most popular actors in the South film industry. He died following a heart attack on Friday. He was admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru after experiencing chest pain.Fondly called 'Appu' by his fans, the actor entered the industry as a child artist. He was also awarded the National Film Award for Best Child Artist, for the movie Bettada Hoovu. Later, he debuted with Appu in 2002 which instantly became a blockbuster. Raam, Hudugaru, and Anjani Putra are some of his memorable movies.As soon as news of the untimely death of the Kannada actor broke, all from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress' Rahul Gandhi to Bollywood celebrities expressed grief. R Madhavan penned a moving tweet in the memory of the late star. "GONE- one of our KINDEST, NICEST AND NOBLE soul. I don' know what I am feeling . I am feeling so devastated. Brother you have left us very confused and heartbroken. The heavens are brighter today. I am still hoping this is not true," his tweet read.Anil Kapoor also extended condolences and wrote, "Shocking & extremely sad... #PuneethRajkumar. Sending my heartfelt condolences & prayers to the family..."Also read: Puneeth Rajkumar shared his last tweet just hours before death. Here's what he saidCalling him his younger brother, Kamal Hassan tweeted, "The demise of my dear younger brother Puneeth Rajkumar was most unexpected.We were mutually very fond of each other. My deepest sympathy to his family and his fans in Karnataka. #PuneethRajkumar."(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/others/puneeth-rajkumar-fans-gather-to-catch-a-last-glimpse-of-late-actor-see-pics-101635564000039.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Double murder case: Minor grandson held for killing elderly couple in Ludhiana||Making a headway in the sensational murder case of an elderly couple that had shocked the city, Samrala police arrested their 17-year-old grandson on Friday. He was sent to juvenile home after being produced in a court.His mother was arrested on Thursday. The police have already recovered the baseball bat and axe used in the crime from the spot.The boy told the police that his grandparents used to harass his parents. “They were forced to live in one room of the house despite two more vacant rooms due to the stubborn behaviour of my grandparents,” he added. The boy also said that his grandparents wanted to kick them out of the single room, in which they were living, and they had moved court in this regard. His parents were mentally disturbed over their behaviour, which instigated him to take the step, the boy added.Samrala station house officer Kulwant Singh said that both the accused have been arrested in the double murder case. The police will try to file a chargesheet in the court at the earliest after completing the investigation, he added.The boy, who is a student of Class 11 of a government school in Samrala, had reportedly hacked his grandparents Darshan Singh, 72, and Surinder Kaur, 70, to death in Lall Kalan village on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/double-murder-case-minor-grandson-held-for-killing-elderly-couple-in-ludhiana-101635564057573.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah: Ludhiana MC struggles to find land for pumping station||Working on the project to clean Buddha Nullah, Ludhiana MC is struggling to find a chunk of land for building a pumping station near Gaughat Gurdwara cremation ground. To review the ongoing works, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal convened a meeting of the monitoring committee constituted under the project at the sewer treatment plant (STP) site in Jamalpur on Friday. As per the information, officials of the building branch have been directed to find a vacant space near the cremation ground for establishing the pumping station. The officials stated that a pumping station is already functional near the cremation ground, but a bigger one has to be established from where the sewage from different old city areas could be pumped till Jamalpur station using interceptor lines. The outlet points from where the sewage is directly being dumped into the nullah have to be closed, they added. While inspecting the ongoing works to set up 225MLD STP in Jamalpur, deliberations were also made to get the power connection approved from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for the plant. Also, the contractor company has asked the MC to make the final decision on whether the department wants to upgrade the existing STP in the Balloke area or not. The decision regarding the same is pending for a long time. Sabharwal said regular meetings were being held to monitor the ongoing works and the project was going on at a satisfactory speed. “There are a few issues but we are working out a solution. The ₹650-crore project to clean the nullah was allotted to the contractor for ₹519 crore and over ₹100 crore has been spent on different works being taken up under the project,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rejuvenation-of-buddha-nullah-ludhiana-mc-struggles-to-find-land-for-pumping-station-101635563937555.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: All three joint police commissioners shifted in major rejig||The Ludhiana police commissionerate witnessed another major reshuffle in top brass with transfer of officers on Friday. All three joint commissioners of police have been transferred along with the additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) and assistant commissioner of police (ACP) rank officials. Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian has been posted as joint commissioner of police (city and traffic). He has been replaced by Dayama Harish Kumar Omprakash. Joint commissioner of police (city and traffic) Deepak Pareek has been transferred as joint commissioner of police (headquarters), Jalandhar. Joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta, who has been transferred to Amritsar, is replaced by Ravcharan Singh Brar. ADCP (City 1) Pragya Jain has been posted as ADCP (security and operations). She has been replaced by Parminder Singh Heer. ADCP (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti has been transferred to Moga. She has been replaced by Jagatpreet Singh. Balwinder Singh has been appointed as ADCP-2 while ACP Sandeep Kumar has been given the charge of traffic. ACP (investigation) Mandeep Singh was replaced by Dilbagh Singh; Rajan Sharma was appointed as ACP (Industrial Area B); Deepika Singh as ACP (crime against women and children) and Rajesh Kumar as ACP (special branch).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-all-three-joint-police-commissioners-shifted-in-major-rejig-101635563817468.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB report 2020: Ludhiana saw dip in road mishaps, but mortality rate rose||Ludhiana has witnessed a dip in road mishaps and deaths in 2020, but there had been a spike in mortality rate as compared to 2019. In 2020, 281 people had died in 388 road accidents with a mortality rate of 72.42%, while in 2019 the rate was 69.39%. In 2019, 365 people were killed in 526 mishaps and the mortality rate was 69.39%. Traffic experts said due to lockdown in the entire region after the coronavirus outbreak, there were restrictions on movement following which the number of road mishaps recorded was low.According to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), in 388 road mishaps reported in 2020, 183 people had suffered severe injuries. While 3,916 deaths were reported across Punjab in 5,173 road accidents in 2020, a total of 2,881 people had also sustained injuries.The Ludhiana police’s traffic wing had identified 91 accident-prone spots in the city, out of which 10 have been classified as black spots for being the most vulnerable to mishaps. The traffic wing had sent a representation to the National Highway Authorities of India to take corrective measures to deter road mishaps. More accidents took place on internal roadsIn Ludhiana, 58% accidents were reported from internal roads. Out of total 388 road mishaps, 225 were reported on internal roads with 153 deaths and 106 injured. As many as 128 mishaps were reported on national highways with 95 deaths and 60 injured, while 35 accidents took place on state highways with 33 casualties and 17 injured. Major mishaps in 2020 during lockdownOn September 11, a labourer had lost his two minor sons in an accident on service lane of Ludhiana-Delhi national highway near Jugiana village of Sahnewal after a speeding truck crushed them to death. The siblings were going to buy notebooks at the time of the accident. The driver of the truck tried to escape from the spot, but the onlookers gave him a chase and foiled the bid. They then handed him over to the Sahnewal police.On June 8, a speeding SUV belonging to Congress MLA from Fazilka, Davinder Singh Ghubaya, had fatally hit a motorcycle-borne man near Mundian on Chandigarh Road. At the time of the accident, the MLA was not in the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-report-2020-ludhiana-saw-dip-in-road-mishaps-but-mortality-rate-rose-101635563517824.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cave-in: Efforts on to detect reason behind leakage, says MC||A day after a road in Deep Nagar caved in, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) officials suspected that the leakage in pipes could have been persisting for at least six months due to which soil erosion took place and a major portion below the road became hollow. Having no equipment to detect the underground leakage, the MC officials said the exact reason behind the incident is still uncertain and efforts were being made to know the cause. It is also suspected that the sewer lines got damaged due to laying of underground wires, resulting in leakage. The MC officials said the repair work will be carried out during the night hours too, but it will take around a week to repair the damaged portion. MC subdivisional officer Anshul Garcha said the reason behind the incident is unknown as of now, but the department is working on it. “The leakage is suspected to be going on for at least six months as a major portion of road had become hollow. The repair works will take around a week as the damage is huge. The MC will also check additional length of the damaged sewer line on both sides of the road to detect any other leakage. Senior officials have been apprised of the situation and efforts are being made to expedite the repair works,” he added. Two siblings and a woman had a narrow escape after a major road portion of Deep Nagar main road near Dandi Swami chowk had caved in on Thursday morning around 8am and the trio fell into about 15ft deep crater. On their way to school, the siblings were on a two-wheeler, while the woman was crossing the lane. A video of the incident was also widely circulated, sending shockwaves across the city. While the students were rescued by passersby, the two-wheeler that sank in the accumulated sewage was pulled out seven hours after the incident. Residents had slammed the MC officials for allegedly showing lackadaisical behaviour. They rued that the same portion had caved in around six months ago as well when the civic body was reconstructing the road. But rather than checking any leakage, the contractor rebuilt the road, they claimed. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had issued show-cause notices to three officials, including executive engineer, SDO and junior engineer, over the negligence. Decades’ old sewer line also damagedGarcha said the decades’ old brick sewer lines moving around 20ft below the road portion also got damaged due to the cave-in. “The sewer lines have been blocked in the area and the sewage flow is being diverted for repairing the damaged parts. Super-suction machines have been deployed at the spot for clearing the site of accumulated sewage,” he added. RTI activist files complaint with human rights bodyCiting the recent road cave-ins, including the one that took place in Deep Nagar, RTI activist Arvind Sharma has filed a complaint against MC officials with the Punjab State Human Rights Commission on Friday for “posing grave danger to the lives of commuters”. Accusing the MC officials of adopting careless behaviour towards the rising cave-in incidents, Sharma said that a father-son duo also had a narrow escape after their car got stuck and overturned as a portion of road caved in in Haibowal area on October 24. Such incidents have also been reported in different parts of the city, including Model Town Extension, Dugri, and Kaka Marriage Palace road, but no concrete steps were taken by the civic body, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cave-in-efforts-on-to-detect-reason-behind-leakage-says-mc-101635563397655.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan to be released from Mumbai jail today; Shah Rukh Khan to pick him up||Aryan Khan is set to be released from the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai on Saturday after officials opened the bail box outside the jail to collect court documents pertaining to the bail of the eldest son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested earlier this month by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after the agency raided a cruise ship."We have received the bail order documents and we are processing them. He (Aryan) will be released along with all other inmates who have also been granted bail. They are expected to be released between 10am to 12pm,” Arthur Road jail superintendent NB Vayachal said.According to PTI, Shah Rukh Khan left Mannat, his bungalow in Bandra, for Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai ahead of his son Aryan Khan's release. Hundreds of people were seen outside the Arthur Road central prison as the police put a security blanket to ensure that no untoward incident happens when Shah Rukh Khan arrives outside the jail's main gate to receive his son Aryan Khan.Aryan Khan was granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday but he spent another night in the Arthur Road prison as documents related to his release did not reach jail authorities in time on Friday. Aryan Khan was granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday after 25 days of his arrest in the case related to the alleged seizure of drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month by the NCB.Also read | Enquiry against Sameer Wankhede; NCB records statement of one more personShah Rukh Khan's actor-friend Juhi Chawla stood as surety for his 23-year-old son. Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. Their arrest came a day after the NCB raided the cruise ship and claimed to have seized banned drugs.Also read | Shah Rukh's home Mannat gets decked up with lights ahead of Aryan's releaseIn the five-page order, signed by Justice NW Sambre, the high court imposed 14 bail conditions on him, paving the way for his release from jail. The high court said that Aryan Khan and his two co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, shall be released on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount.Also watch | Aryan Khan still in jail due to late paperwork; Juhi Chawla signs bail bondThey will have to come to the NCB office each Friday between 11am and 2pm to mark their presence, the HC said. The judge said he will give a detailed bail order with reasons next week.Also read | Wasn't organiser of cruise party, says Kashif Khan as Nawab Malik posts videoThe high court directed Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and not to leave India without taking its permission. The accused should give prior intimation to the NCB before leaving Mumbai and will have to provide their itinerary.The HC said they will not personally or through anyone make any attempt to influence witnesses or tamper with the evidence. If the three violate any of the conditions imposed then the NCB, which is probing the cruise drugs case, shall "straightaway apply to the special judge/court for cancellation of their bail."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-set-to-walk-out-of-mumbai-jail-today-but-conditions-apply-101635561272095.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Himachal Pradesh minister GS Bali passes away||Senior Congress leader and former Himachal Pradesh minister Gurmukh Singh Bali passed away early on Saturday after a prolonged illness. He was 67. Also read: Bypolls LIVE Updates: Voting begins in 3 Lok Sabha seats, 30 assembly seatsThe four-term former legislator breathed his last at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, his son and Congress secretary Raghubir Singh Bali posted on his Facebook page. “It is with a heavy heart and profound sadness that we inform that my father and former minister GS Bali is no more with us,” he said. “My father would always say that GS Bali may die but he will always be alive in the hearts of people. His principles will keep guiding us,” Raghubir added. Bali was born in Kangra on July 27, 1954. He started his political career in the Congress Seva Dal. He was the state head of the Seva Dal from 1995-98. He was elected to the state assembly from Nagrota Bagwan constituency for the first time in 1998 and re-elected in 2003. He was the transport minister in the Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government. Bali was again elected in 2007 and 2012 and served as the state transport minister besides holding the food and civil supplies and technical education portfolios. He lost the 2017 assembly election to his one-time protégé Arun Kumar Kuka of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-himachal-pradesh-minister-gs-bali-passes-away-101635561777517.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Being home alone in the city||It’s evening and she is sitting alone by the lake in Sunder Nursery with a coffee mug by her side. Architect and urban conservationist Smita Babar, 32, graciously allows herself to be snapped. The next day, on e-mail, she answers a few questions about her solitary rambles in the city.What were you doing by the lake?I was trying to get in touch with my feelings. Being in the present moment is a challenge for many of us and we don’t even realise it. Coming close to the nature helps me with it.What did you do for the rest of the evening in the park?After finishing my coffee I looked at the sky for some time, stared at the lake and tried to be compassionate towards myself. Then I listened to the two songs of Nelly Furtado on loop—Island of wonder and Say it right. Afterwards, I took some pictures and videos of the lake. The phone was used only to take pictures and videos, to listen to songs and to write down my thoughts. I had turned off the internet to be at peace. After some time I sat at some other place by the lake, until it got dark.Don’t you feel weird hanging out all by yourself?I find it normal to sit at a cafe alone and enjoy my coffee. But when it comes to dining at a restaurant, the servers very often come across to be extra-sweet and extra-polite with me. They try harder to make me more comfortable and to make sure that I am served well. I’m not sure it is because of respect or pity they feel towards me for being alone or it is just good old chivalry. I’ve experienced this even at a small eatery in Nizamuddin where I was the only female customer relishing nalli nihari and khamiri roti. I also observe that very often women, who are dining with their families, look at me with awe and I can tell that they are wondering why am I sitting alone. I even get a sense that some of the women are envying my freedom of being able to sit at a restaurant and enjoy a meal by myself.How often you go out all by yourself in the city?I take myself out on a date once a month. I dress up and treat myself at one of the wonderful places I keep adding to my ‘to visit’ list. I love walking around Green Park Market and Connaught Place at different times of the day.When people are alone, they often hum a song without probably even realising it.I don’t hum or sing to myself casually. I am a trained classical singer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-being-home-alone-in-the-city-101635551080636.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt on hookahs: ‘Not important to drop guard for unnecessary service’||Opposing a bunch of pleas against the use of herbal hookahs in the Capital, the state government on Friday told the Delhi high court that it is not necessary to lower the guard for an “unnecessary and ill-intended service which is likely to increase the severity and transmission of Covid-19”.In a status report filed before Justice Rekha Palli, the Delhi government has said that due to the upcoming festivals, chances of a third wave of Covid, and discovery of a sub-variant of the virus in many states, it would like to continue the prohibition on the use of hookah (with and without tobacco i.e. herbal hookah, water pipes and other hookah like devices) in all public places including hotels, restaurants, eatery houses, bars, pubs and discotheques.The city government has told the court that use and service of hookahs in restaurants and pubs is in contravention of State’s Fire Prevention & Safety Act.The court directed the petitioners to file their response in the matter, and the case was adjourned to November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-on-hookahs-not-important-to-drop-guard-for-unnecessary-service-101635550541798.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Plots for new PM, V-P houses were not open to public: Centre to top court||The Central Vista plots sought to be made the new residences of the Prime Minister and Vice President have never been open for any public recreational purpose, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday in response to a public interest litigation that contended the change of land use led to a loss of recreational space for citizens.The government affidavit, filed by CPWD executive engineer Ashwani Mittal,was after a PIL by lawyer Rajeev Suri questioned the ostensible change of land use of Plot no 1 of the Central Vista from recreational and transportation to residential. “De facto, the area of Plot No.1 is currently being used as Government Offices (offices and hutments of the Ministry of Defence) for almost 90 years now….the place has not ever been open for the general public to utilize it for any public recreational purposes,” the Centre’s affidavit said.On Monday, the top court asked the Centre to respond on two issues -- the need to modify the public recreational space into a residential space, and how it intended to compensate the loss of recreational space.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre on Friday, informed a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar about the affidavit. Since the Court could not locate the affidavit on file, the hearing on the petition was adjourned to November 16, allowing the petitioner’s lawyer Shikhil Suri to respond to the Centre’s affidavit.The Centre told the Court that six plots on the Central Vista which the present petition was related to housed structures built as temporary barracks or stables during the World War 2 according to the needs and requirement of the time. These structures, occupy an area of over 90 acres, the affidavit said, adding that these “precious pieces of land on the Vista are highly underutilised” which include the L&M Block near North Block (Plot No. 1), A&B Block near South Block, Plot No.30 on Tyagraj Marg, Plot No.36 & 38, Jamnagar House, and Jodhpur House.Explaining why the Vice President’s residence was proposed for construction on Plot No. 1, the Centre said, “This will in turn help in easing the traffic situation in Central Vista as the movement of Vice President will be mainly to the Parliament when in session. This will be well facilitated by the proposed Vice President Residence being in close proximity to the Parliament.”By a notification of October 28, 2020, this plot was notified as residential.The petition argued that the land falling has the facility for transportation across nine acres, while recreational space is six acres, which will now be lost.The affidavit said that “considering the overall public purpose of the Central Vista” the Centre has not only compensated for the loss of public recreational space but has on its own added numerous facilities in the overall Master Plan of Central Vista Project for the larger benefit of the public.“The North and South Blocks which cover nearly 27 acres are proposed to be converted into National Museums showcasing ‘India in making’ prehistoric to present date. The museums will be open to the public at large and serve important public purposes,” the Centre said.In addition, “nearly 118 hectares of land on the Eastern and Western Bank of River Yamuna near Akshardham Temple on Eastern bank and near IP Thermal Power Station on Western Bank is being developed as AMRUT Biodiversity Park to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence fulfilling the recreational purpose aspirations of public at large,” it said.Seeking a dismissal of the PIL, the Centre said the question of change in character of the Master Plan was addressed by the top court in its January 5 judgment giving the go-ahead to the construction of the Vista project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plots-for-new-pm-v-p-houses-were-not-open-to-public-centre-to-top-court-101635548457572.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt wins award for Chandni Chowk project||The Delhi government on Friday won an excellence award in the field of urban transport for its Chandni Chowk redevelopment project.“The 14th Urban Mobility India Conference was organised by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. Delhi’s urban development minister Satyendar Jain was felicitated with the honour in the category of the city with the best non-motorised transport system. The award was presented by Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India. The Award Selection Committee (UMI 2021) gave the Kejriwal government the Award for Excellence in Urban Transport in Best Non-Motorised Transport category for the project of Chandni Chowk redevelopment,” the government said in a statement.In September, chief minister inaugurated the first phase of the redevelopment project under which, the 1.4-kilometre stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid has been converted into a pedestrian-only zone between 9am and 9pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-wins-award-for-chandni-chowk-project-101635548119710.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Peace panel summons Facebook reps for Nov 2 hearing on Delhi riots||The Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee has issued a notice to Facebook, asking the company to send by October 31 the names and designations of representatives who will appear before it for a hearing on November 2 in connection with the February 2020 riots in the national capital.The notice, a copy of which HT has seen, added that the failure in complying with the notice could lead to proceedings for breach of contempt/privilege of the assembly. It could mark the next round in the confrontation between the Delhi assembly and the social media company on its role in Delhi in February last year in which at least 53 people were killed.“The committee is examining the communal disharmony that led to the violence in Delhi last year, with a view to recommending suitable measures to defuse the situation and restore harmony among religious communities, linguistic communities or social groups,” the notice said.Headed by Rajendra Nagar MLA and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha, the panel justified the notice citing the Supreme Court’s July 8 order upholding the powers of the panel to summon both members and non-members including representatives of Facebook.In a tweet on Thursday, Chadha said: “The committee has decided to call upon Facebook India representatives to depose on November 2 on the important role of social media in curbing the spread of false and malicious messages which can fan disharmony and adversely impact peace.”He added that the proceedings will be live-streamed for greater transparency, because the matter is of “great public importance”.The panel is conducting an inquiry into the communal riots that hit Delhi in February last year, killing 53 people. This comes after the Delhi legislative assembly panel told the Supreme Court in October 2020 that it had summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on whether it contributed in any way to the build-up of the February, 2020 communal violence.The panel wanted to elicit suggestions on how social media platforms could be used to strengthen unity among citizens in the future and Facebook executives were summoned as witnesses, not as accused, an affidavit filed by Delhi deputy secretary Sadanand Sah said, adding that no coercive action was intended.Mohan and Facebook moved the Supreme Court on September 22 last year, challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the peace panel. The summons stemmed from the committee’s decision to look into Facebook’s role following several foreign media reports that purported to show that the social media company may have acted in a political partisan manner.Earlier this year, the assembly panel issued a fresh notice to Facebook India, asking that a “senior competent person” appear and testify before it.Mohan has previously questioned the jurisdiction of the panel.“Facebook cannot excuse themselves from appearing pursuant to the new summons issued to them on February 3, 2021... Facebook is a platform where political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands off the issue as this is their very business,” said the top court’s July 8 order.At the same time, the court clarified that the panel cannot become a “prosecuting agency” which can hold people guilty and order filing of charge sheets in the riot cases. The Facebook executive will be at liberty not to answer questions relating to law and order and police, while such a refusal cannot lead to any coercive step by the assembly, said the bench.Neither Facebook spokespersons nor Chadha responded to requests seeking comment.The panel, in February, asked for a “senior competent person” of Facebook to appear and testify before it and help in its inquiry into the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/peace-panel-summons-facebook-reps-for-nov-2-hearing-on-delhi-riots-101635545726475.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Politics was simple but the challenges huge: Parkash Singh Badal on polls 70 years ago||When India was heading for its maiden general elections in 1951, the grand old man of Punjab politics, Parkash Singh Badal, was just 24.A recent graduate from Forman Christian College, Lahore, Badal had started meeting the senior leadership of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), talking about Sikh identity and state on the linguistic lines.“The style of politics then was simple, but the challenges were huge, particularly for the Punjabis as exodus of population from west Punjab (now part of Pakistan) had happened after the partition and new political equations were taking shape,” said Badal, now 93, sitting on an armchair in his native village in south Punjab’s Muktsar district.Nicknamed Pash, Badal had set out of home to become a doctor but later wanted to join government service. But Giani Kartar Singh, a top Akali leader at the time, rejected the idea of Badal becoming a tehsildar (revenue officer). “You will recruit tehsildars,” he told the young man.After 11 stints in the assembly and Parliament, and five terms as chief minister, Badal remembers the initial days of the 1951 polls as “chaotic”.“All parties and politicians were trying to consolidate their space,” he said.A young political operative at the time, Badal used to take senior leaders in his Willys jeep to rallies and events, and even drove buses to political events.The SAD won four seats in the first general election — all of them in Punjab. “We contested on the Punjabi suba (state) and Sikh identity politics,” said Badal.He remembered the frenetic build-up to the 1951-52 elections due to the steep logistical challenges and the country’s first experience with universal adult franchise.“In the first election, ballot papers were used to cast votes, old ghee cans were used a ballot boxes and vote count was written on black boards,” he said.He recalled that Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first prime minister, was a big name at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politics-was-simple-but-the-challenges-huge-parkash-singh-badal-on-polls-70-years-ago-101635544431024.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh horse show gets underway||Dhanveer of PPS Nabha bagged the first prize in the show jumping children group II event during the Chandigarh Horse Show to be organised by The Ranch in Chandigarh on Friday. Avinit Bhatia stood first in the show jumping 0.80M CHS open event, Abhishek Chopra of Modi Equestrian Academy stood first in the show jumping top score, Birkuwar Singh of PPS Nabha bagged first spot in the show jumping children group-I event while Sukhampreet Sandhu bagged first position in the show jumping 0.90M open event.In the children events, the boot and hay group- I, II, III, Fatehjeet Singh of PPS Nabha, Dhanveer Singh of PPS Nabha and Sumet Singh Chahal of YPS Patiala bagged the first prize.In dressage preliminary event, Dr Anuj Kumar shared first position with Sheazpreet and Anahat of PPS Nabha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-horse-show-gets-underway-101635543115219.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Terror conspiracy case: NIA raids at 8 places in Kashmir, 2 held||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested two more persons after conducting raids at eight locations in Kashmir in relation to a terror conspiracy case filed on October 10.The agency conducted searches in Srinagar, Sopore and Baramulla. The agency said that they had arrested two more persons – Amir Ahmad Gojri of Srinagar and Saddat Amin of north Kashmir’s Sopore. “Searches conducted today led to recovery of electronic devices and incriminating jehadi documents and posters etc,” the agency said.So far, 23 people have been arrested in the case. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the arrested accused are terror associates and over-ground workers (OGWs) of different proscribed terrorist organisations and have been providing logistical and material support to terrorists,” the statement said.The case relates to conspiracy for undertaking violent militant acts in J&K and other major cities by cadres of proscribed organisations such as the Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and other similar outfits and their affiliates, including The Resistance Front (TRF) and People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF).The agency had registered the case on October 10 to look into the ‘hatching of conspiracy both physically and in cyber space for undertaking violent terror acts in Jammu and Kashmir and in other cities, including New Delhi by LeT, JeM, HM, Al-Badr and their affiliates TRF and PAFF. The case was registered after a series of targeted attacks against civilians in Kashmir.On October 20, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had arrested four alleged militant associates and their over-ground workers (OGWs) after conducting raids at 11 locations in Kashmir in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-conspiracy-case-nia-raids-at-8-places-in-kashmir-2-held-101635543055199.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Beas river mishap: 2 women killed after raft overturns||Two women, one of whom was a senior citizen, were killed and four others were injured after their raft overturned in the Beas river at Chhardu near Kullu on Friday. The victims are Rukiya Dahodwala, 75, of Mumbai and Sakera Bombaywala , 53, of Indore. Kullu superintendent of police Gurdev Chand Sharma said the incident took place around noon when a group of women were river rafting. The tourists had boarded the raft near Baveli and it overturned near Bashing, after which the women were swept away. “First responders and witnesses immediately launched a rescue operation,” said the SP. The women were rushed to the Kullu civil hospital, but the two victims who were critical, succumbed to their injuries. Four women are still undergoing treatment, and one of them is in a critical condition. Sharma said the police have registered a case and investigations are on to ascertain the cause of the mishap. The statements of the injured women have been recorded. Meanwhile, one of the injured women, Tasneem, said initially the ride was smooth, but the raft suddenly overturned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/beas-river-mishap-2-women-killed-after-raft-overturns-101635542636495.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Nine days on, biker hit by ambulance succumbs to injuries||Nine days after being hit by an ambulance, a 61-year-old biker succumbed to his injuries at Amcare hospital in Zirakpur on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Kanwaljit Singh, a resident of GSJ Apartments, Shivjot Enclave, Kharar. The incident took place on October 20 when the 61-year-old was crossing the Sector 67/68 light point. An eyewitness, Bhushan Sharma, said that just as the lights turned green and the victim was about to cross the intersection, a rashly driven ambulance hit him and dragged him for a few metres. As a result of this, the victim suffered severe head injuries and blood was seen oozing out of his mouth as well. The ambulance driver, who was accompanied by two others, got off and tried to give first-aid to the victim. As blood didn’t stop, they took him to Amcare hospital in an auto. The eyewitness said that even though the ambulance was not carrying any patient, the driver had been speeding and blowing the siren.A case under Section 279 (rash driving), 337 (negligent act endangering human life), 427 (mischief) and 177 (furnishing false information) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the ambulance driver at Phase 11 police station on the complaint of the eyewitness. After the victim’s death, police added Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) in the FIR.Phase 11 station house officer, Gagandeep Singh said the ambulance driver would be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-nine-days-on-biker-hit-by-ambulance-succumbs-to-injuries-101635542635284.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Mohali to have local bus service from Jan 1 within MC limits||Residents in Mohali have a reason to cheer as the municipal corporation (MC) is all set to start a local bus service within the MC limits. It was proposed around a decade ago. The agenda pertaining to the local bus service will be tabled in the house meeting scheduled on November 2 for final approval and its service will begin from January 1. Initially, there will be around seven buses, which will run in areas under the MC limits. City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said, “We had a meeting on Friday and finalised terms and conditions. We will be placing the agenda before the MC house on November 2. The buses will be run by a private company against the advertisements rights.” He said once it was approved in the house, it would be sent to the local bodies department for approval. “We will soon be finalising routes for buses,” he said. Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said it would be a Diwali gift to the residents of Mohali. At present, the residents were relying on the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) that only covered select routes. Besides, over the last decade, the town had substantially swelled with several new sectors coming up. In 2016, the MC had passed a resolution for the same. However, the local bodies department did not give approval. At that time, the corporation planned to run 50 buses on the routes in question in the first phase. The MC had allocated a budget of ₹2 crore. Before the Punjab assembly elections, former cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had announced that the town would soon have its own bus service. A decade ago, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had also finalised routes for the bus service, but later the project was scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-mohali-to-have-local-bus-service-from-jan-1-within-mc-limits-101635542274998.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali F&CC approves development works worth ₹35 crore||Members of the finance and contract committee (F&CC) of Mohali municipal corporation approved development works worth ₹35 crore on Friday.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, commissioner Kamal Garg, SE Sanjay Kanwar and two member councillors Jasbir Singh Manku and Anuradha Anand were also present in the meeting. Sidhu said the panel has approved development works worth ₹35 crore, out of which, work orders to the tune of ₹19 crore have already been issued. Sidhu said a community centre for Phase-3B1, road works, paver blocks, public health works, fire station repair works etc are on the cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-f-cc-approves-development-works-worth-rs-35-crore-101635542216206.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypolls: 15.36 lakh voters to decide the fate of 18 candidates on October 30||Over 15.36 lakh voters will decide the fate of 18 candidates in the fray for the by-election to one parliamentary seat and three assembly constituencies in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday.The polling will begin at 8am and will end at 6pm. Mandi parliamentary constituency and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments are going to the polls.The Mandi parliamentary seat fell vacant after the death of incumbent MP Ram Swaroop Sharma in April this year. Three assembly segments also fell vacant due to the death of sitting legislators, one of them former six-term chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who represented the Arki assembly constituency.Chief electoral officer C Palrasu said of the 1,53,36,280 registered voters in the four constituencies – 7,73,940 are men and 7,62,340 women.He said the voting will be held at 2,774 polling booths. Mandi parliamentary constituency has a total 12,86,382 electors of whom 6,38,756 are female and 6,47,619 male.A total of 2,365 polling booths have been set up in the 17 assembly constituencies in six districts, including Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Shimla, that comprise the Mandi parliamentary seat.A total of 11,500 officers and employees would be on poll duty in Mandi, along with 4,700 of the security personnel. The main contest in Mandi is between Congress’ Pratibha Singh, a two-term former MP and BJP’s Brigadier Khushal Thakur, who is making his election debut. The election holds much importance for being the home district of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.Among the three assembly segments, Arki has the highest, 91,884 voters – 45,401 of them are women and 46,483 are men. Around 132 booths have been set up in the Arki assembly segment and BJP’s Rattan Pal will slug it out against Congress’ Sanjay Awasthi in Arki.Jubbal-Kotkhai is headed for a triangular contest between Congress’ Rohit Thakur, Neelam Saraik of BJP and Independent candidate Chetan Bragta. Jubbal-Kotkhai fell vacant due to the demise of sitting legislator Narinder Singh Bragta. A total of 70,792 voters will exercise their franchise across 135 polling booths. As many as 35,166 voters are male and 35,626 female.Similarly, it will be a three-cornered contest in Fatehpur. The Congress has fielded Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, whose death necessitated the by-election. BJP has made Baldev Thakur its nominee, while former MP Rajan Sushant is contesting as an independent candidate.Among the total 87,222 electors in Fatehpur, 44,665 are male and 42,528 female. As many as 141 polling booth have been set up in Fatehpur, of which 111 are main and 30 are auxiliary booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypolls-15-36-lakh-voters-to-decide-the-fate-of-18-candidates-on-october-30-101635542215150.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||150 more down with dengue in Chandigarh tricity area, 1 succumbs in Mohali||As many as 150 more dengue cases surfaced in the tricity on Friday, with Mohali reporting 95 of them alone. The district also reported one death on the day, taking this year’s death tally after dengue outbreak to 31. The latest victim is a 54-year-old female of Karala village in Mohali, who was admitted at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. Chandigarh reported 41 new cases while Panchkula had 14 fresh infections. Both jurisdictions did not have any new fatalities. 12 new Covid infections in tricityWith 12 fresh infections, tricity’s single-day Covid tally returned to double digits after six days on Friday. The infection count is expected to rise amid the festive hustle bustle. Chandigarh and Mohali reported five infections each while two cases surfaced in Panchkula. Also, no death was recorded for the 24th consecutive day here. In Chandigarh, the infections were reported from Sectors 9, 15, PGI Campus, Dhanas and Ramdarbar. In Mohali, three cases were reported from Mohali, while two cases surfaced in Kharar. In Panchkula, the infected people are residents of Debar and Pinjore. Tricity’s active cases tally also rose to 73 on Friday, with 30 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 29 in Mohali and 14 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/150-more-down-with-dengue-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-1-succumbs-in-mohali-101635541854826.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will file defamation suit against Rajan Sushant: Himachal forest minister Rakesh Pathania||letterschd@hindustantimes.comForest minister Rakesh Pathania has threatened to file a ₹2-crore defamation suit against the former member of parliament Rajan Sushant, who is contesting the October 30 byelection as an independent from Fatehpur, for the alleged corruptions allegation against him.Pathania said Sushant had alleged a “cash for job” scam in the recruitment of forest guard held earlier this month. He alleged that ₹20 lakh was being charged from per person for job of forest guard. “Merely an apology will not do. I will see him in court,” said Pathania.Making counter allegations, he said, “He tried to fool the public by saying that he had given up his pension. However, the truth is that he had withdrawn pension till May and rest of the pension was pending due to non-submission of life certificate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-file-defamation-suit-against-rajan-sushant-himachal-forest-minister-rakesh-pathania-101635540954816.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC hikes park-maintenance charges paid to RWAs||Facing the prospects of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) withdrawing from the maintenance of neighbourhood parks, the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday increased the maintenance charges being paid to them. Now, instead of ₹2.48 per sq metre a month, the RWAs will get ₹4.15 per sq metre a month for maintaining the neighbourhood parks. The cost for the MC for park maintenance through RWAs will increase to ₹5.66 crore per year against the current cost of ₹3.38 crore per year. The demand for increasing the quantum of payments being made to the RWAs was being made for a long time. In accordance with the requests of the area councillors and RWAs, a committee was constituted in September 2021. The committee examined the rates being given to the RWAs by MCs of Panchkula and Mohali, which showed that Chandigarh MC was paying very low rates in comparison to these corporations. Panchkula MC increased the rates for maintenance and development of parks from ₹3 per square metre month to ₹5 per square metre per month for parks with area less than an acre and for parks with area more than one acre, the rate was increased from ₹3 per square metre per month to ₹4 per sq m per month. Mohali MC gives ₹4.35 per square metre per month for maintenance of parks to RWAs.After analysis of rate on the present market rate of DC rate has been calculated for maintenance of the neighbourhood parks and its comes out to be ₹4.15 per sq m per month. The rate includes gardener charges, sanitation worker charges, tree maintenance costs, fuel costs, etc.The total cost of a park maintenance comes out to be ₹2,01,444 per park per year.Also, the MC horticulture division will use its own manpower and machinery once in a week to dispose the horticulture waste from the parks. Other decisionsThe MC house decided to give maintenance of backlanes from Sectors 1-30 to RWAs. The norms will be decided in consultation with the RWAs and area councilors. The house approved exemption in license fee to the licensees of taxi stands due to Covid. MC deferred a decision on license fee exemption to parking contractors. Contractors have been demanding exemption on account of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-hikes-park-maintenance-charges-paid-to-rwas-101635540895302.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||11 more PU departments to open from Nov 1; hostel accommodation with Covid protocol||As PU continues to reopen in a phased manner amidst the pandemic, the authorities have announced that 11 more departments are set to open from Monday; hostel accommodation will be limited with the Covid protocol in placeAs per PU authorities, the University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology, department-cum-national centre for human genome studies and research, department of biotechnology, department of computer science and applications, department of environmental studies, department of mathematics, department of microbial biotechnology, department of microbiology, department of statistics, institute of forensic science and criminology and university institute of fashion technology and vocational development will be opened for final year postgraduate students. A decision regarding this was taken at a meeting held on Friday. Hostel accommodation will be limited with the Covid protocol in place. Limited students will be allowed to stay in the hostel and for this, they will need a consent form signed by their parents stating they will follow all Covid protocols. They will have to submit an undertaking to the chairperson of the department that if the situation demands they will vacate the hostel and leave the university accommodation and students must have been administered both vaccine doses. A negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours will also be required.Currently, only single room accommodation will be given to students. Guest and visitor entry to hostels will also be banned till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-more-pu-departments-to-open-from-nov-1-hostel-accommodation-with-covid-protocol-101635540358913.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh toilet scam: CBI special court dismisses former superintending engineer’s application||A Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) special court on Thursday dismissed the application filed by Ramesh Chander Diwan, former superintending engineer, seeking discharge from allegations in the toilet scam pertaining to the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) where the exchequer had incurred losses worth ₹13.66 crore.“The accused does not get the benefit either of the amendment in the Prevention of Corruption Act or Section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and cognisance of the present case already stands taken by the court in 2016. Thus, no merit is found in the application,” said Jagjit Singh, special judge, CBI court, while dismissing the application. Diwan had sought discharge from the charges on the ground that the CBI had failed to take prosecution sanction. He had argued before the court that as per the amendment in the Prevention of Corruption Act, even for a retired public servant, sanction was a must to prosecute him which was not the case earlier. Seeking dismissal of the application, the CBI had argued that when the challan was filed, the accused had retired and there was no requirement of seeking sanction for a retired public servant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-toilet-scam-cbi-special-court-dismisses-former-superintending-engineer-s-application-101635540357256.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Overseas job fraud: Chandigarh man duped of ₹1.72 lakh||A Sector 9 resident has been duped of ₹1.72 lakh in an overseas job fraud. In his complaint, Arvinder Singh of Sector-9, Chandigarh, alleged being duped by Kanpur-based Global Jobs International. He said on January 4, 2019, a person identifying himself as Anand from Global Jobs International approached him and offered him guaranteed placement in the Middle East in 90 days if he paid the registration and other charges. He alleged that the accused had even shown him the website of the company which was now deleted. Arvinder ended up paying ₹1.72 lakh on various occasions as different charges and advance commission for his placement and his interview was scheduled with guaranteed placement for March 22, 2019, but the same did not happen. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overseas-job-fraud-chandigarh-man-duped-of-rs-1-72-lakh-101635540356190.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana big relief to people; gives free treatment up to ₹5L per family: Balbir Sidhu||Former minister and present MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Punjab government was committed to extending the benefits of public welfare schemes to every person and continuous efforts were being made to make people aware of these schemes.Addressing people during a Suwidha camp here at the district administrative complex, he referred to the scheme of allotting plots of five marlas each to the needy. He said he took up the matter with the chief minister to ease out the norms to extend the benefits to everyone. He said he met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and demanded relaxation of terms and conditions so that a maximum number of people could avail the benefits of the scheme. Talking about Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, he said this scheme had become a major source of relief to the people as it provided free treatment up to ₹5 lakh per family to the beneficiaries in public hospitals as well as private hospitals.Stressing the need to sensitise people about various welfare schemes, the MLA said the government had taken a big initiative to conduct Suwidha camps so that the benefits of the government schemes could be provided at one place. He said around 4,000 beneficiaries had availed benefits of various schemes till October 28 during these Suvidha camps held at subdivision level across the district. On the occasion, he also distributed job cards of the MGNREGA scheme, pension approval letters and consent letters of various schemes to beneficiaries. During the camp, various departments also set up stalls to provide benefits of welfare services to people on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-big-relief-to-people-gives-free-treatment-up-to-rs-5l-per-family-balbir-sidhu-101635540355007.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC House orders probe into delay in floating tenders for sanitation contract||After grilling civic body officials for the delay in floating a fresh tender for southern sectors’ sanitation contract, the municipal corporation’s general house ordered a “high-level” inquiry into the “deliberate delay”.The House also extended the contract of Lions Services Limited till March 31, which will accrue a payment of ₹15 crore in four months. Earlier on May 31, the House has decided against renewing the firm’s tender, so as to float a fresh tender and minimise the cost burden on MC.Passing a resolution requesting the Punjab governor and UT administrator to get an inquiry conducted over the delay, many councillors, particularly from the treasury benches, alleged there were malafide intention behind the delay. The House also demanded recovery of the loss to the MC from the officials, if found guilty.The present manual-sweeping contracts of Sectors 31-63 ends on November 30, 2021 while the mechanical-sweeping contract expires on February 14, 2022. It will now continue till March 31 next year. It was granted to Lions in 2016.Willful violation of MC resolutionQuestioning the delay in floating the new tender, senior deputy mayor and BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, said, “Even after five months, the MC officials have failed to follow the House resolution. This has left the MC with no option but to go against its own resolution and extend the contract of the Lions Company.”Alleging intentional delay to benefit the current firm, BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “When we talk of zero tolerance on corruption, why are officers opening doors for it? What was the malafide intention behind not respecting the sentiments of 35 councillors. Who are the mischievous officers to favour the company?”In rare bipartisanism, opposition councillors too joined the ruling councillors in criticising the MC officials for the delay. Leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla, “We are paying nearly ₹5 crore per month to the firm, which has been in question since the begining. Even MP Kirron Kher had questioned the huge amount being paid to them.”When confronted, MC officials contended the tendering process would take three months, and in view of the scheduled imposition of code of conduct in November, this process couldn’t be completed.‘Only followed superiors orders’Scaling up the attack on MC officials, the councillors led by BJP state president and councillor Arun Sood called for the official files related to the calling of the tender.Sood, while reading from the file, stated that the preparation of a fresh bid document was completed in July but still, the MC officials didn’t proceed with the tendering process. “Instead, unnecessary information was sought from other departments to delay the process,” said Sood.MC medical officer of health (MOH) Dr Amrit Pal Warring faced the burnt of councillors’ anger. Standing in the well of the house, Warring, said, “It was done with the orders of superiors of that time.” But the councillors said it was his responsibility and he could not pass it on to others. He was questioned for his noting on the file seeking total road length in the city from the MC engineering department even after the final tender document was ready, which councillors alleged led to delay in calling fresh bids. In response, Warring also said he was only following the MC House directions for a comprehensive tender for the entire city. But councillors said no such resolution was passed by the house. Box: Kainth-Mitra face offThere was uproar in the house after Congress councillor Satish Kainth criticised MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra alleging non-delegation of powers. Kainth also alleged that files related to his works have been pending at the MC chief’s office for a long time, and her office was not giving him an appointment. Mitra rubbished the allegations and said, an appointment was given to Kainth, but it was he who left before meeting her. On the allegations of delay in clearing files, the commissioner submitted a timeline of the works indicating no pendency of files. As per the timeline report, rough estimate for work of green belt in Sector 56 approved on April 28, admin approval on May 19. File on work of desilting of sewer in Sec 56 was submitted for approval of commissioner on Sep 16 and approved on September 24. The BJP councilors lead by BJP city chief Arun Sood backed the commissioner and ridiculed Kainth’s allegations terming these as “lies”. Meanwhile, on the complaint of Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla who named an Xen (executive engineer) Dharminder Sharma for delay in allotment of works, the commissioner ordered to chargesheet the XEN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-house-orders-probe-into-delay-in-floating-tenders-for-sanitation-contract-101635539574875.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction row: Sukhbir leads SAD protest in Amritsar||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday took out a march in Amritsar to protest against the Centre’s move to extend the Border Security Force (BSF)’s jurisdiction in Punjab. The party leaders also questioned the role of chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi, alleging that he had “surrendered” before the Centre.The march led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal saw the participation of thousands of people with scores of motorcyclists traversing the six-kilometre stretch from the Attari border to the Golden Gate in an unbroken line. “The electrifying atmosphere is there for you to see. People have formed a sea of humanity to send out a clear signal that they will not tolerate any dilution of the federal structure,” said Sukhbir. Earlier this month, the Centre issued a notification to allow the BSF to arrest, search and seize within 50 km from the International Border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Earlier, it was permitted to undertake such operations only up to 15km.Sukhbir said Punjabis had also displayed their resolve that they would not let the conspiracy to make the state subservient to the Centre succeed at any cost.Asking the CM to walk the talk instead of indulging in “photo ops”, Sukhbir said the Punjab cabinet should pass an executive order directing the state administration not to allow any interference by the BSF in policing duties beyond 15 km from the international border. “This is the time for firm decisions. Passing resolutions in the state assembly will not resolve this crisis,” he saidThe SAD president also condemned the BJP government for adopting a dictatorial attitude, be it on the three farm laws or on the present issue of extending the central jurisdiction in the state. Senior leaders, including Bikram Singh Majithia, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Anil Joshi and Virsa Singh Valtoha, were present on the occasion. Majithia said the BSF should be limited to guarding the border and should not be involved in internal security. He said its was not the first time the Congress government had colluded with the Centre, sharing that how the responsibility of manning the state jails was given to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-row-sukhbir-leads-sad-protest-in-amritsar-101635539097662.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD, BJP corner Congress over Tytler’s appointment||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday slammed Congress president Sonia Gandhi for naming Jagdish Tytler, one of the main accused in the 1984 anti-Sikh violence, as a permanent invitee to Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee.“This is a brazen display of shocking insensitivity to the Sikh wounds by Sonia Gandhi and the Congress party. They have chosen the eve of the painful anniversary of the massacre of Sikhs to announce this decision. Could there be a worse way to rub salt into the deep, festering wounds of the Khalsa Panth than this decision and its timing?” said Sukhbir in a statement. October 31 will mark the anniversary of anti-Sikh violence that erupted following then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984. Sukhbir also dared Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit SIngh Channi to show the moral courage to oppose the decision and get it rescinded. “Collapse of character stems from the compromise corner. Now come out of that corner, show the moral courage to at least speak the truth and prevent the collapse of your character,” said the SAD chief in his statement. “Will Punjab Congressmen, including Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sunil Jakhar, now awaken their conscience, listen to it, and save the collapse of their character by opposing this decision?” he said.Decision regrettable: BJPPunjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said the Congress has reinforced that it stands behind leaders who had committed heinous crimes against Sikhs in 1984. In a statement, Sharma said it was regrettable that Channi and Sidhu have remained silent on Tytler’s appointment.Sharma said it was the BJP government that on coming to power constituted an SIT to give justice to the riot victims. “On the contrary the Congress safeguarded the guilty and is now promoting them,” he said.“Can one expect justice from a political party like the Congress on the sacrilege issue in Punjab? Unfortunately, no justice will be done under the Congress regime of Charanjit Singh Channi,” he said.Party must have consulted Soni, Channi: JakharFormer Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said that since Tytler’s appointment is a sensitive issue concerning Punjab, the party leadership would have taken Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on board before deciding on it. “Both, particularly Soni who has donned the role of key interlocutor in deciding issues related to Punjab, are important party leaders and were in Delhi on Thursday. The two apparently had a long meeting on Friday. Their opinion must have been taken on this matter, which has wide repercussions in Punjab,” he said. Soni was the front-runner for the chief minister’s post last month, but opted out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-bjp-corner-congress-over-tytler-s-appointment-101635539096445.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bains acquitted in Ludhiana passport office trespass case||A Ludhiana court on Friday acquitted Lok Insaaf Party president and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains in a case of trespassing and deterring a public servant after the prosecution failed to prove the charges against him. The case was registered on the complaint of an assistant passport officer on April 24, 2018. The complainant had alleged that Bains along with his armed gunmen and 10-15 supporters forcibly entered the Passport Seva Kendra in Ludhiana. The FIR stated that Bains and his supporters began making videos on their mobile phones, following which applicants got scared and started leaving the office. While the prosecution examined 15 witnesses, the defence counsel examined three witnesses. During arguments, defence counsel Vijay Verma said that Bains is an elected representative and he had received a call about certain agents duping people at the passport office. “It was in his capacity as an MLA that Bains had entered the office and met the assistant passport officer. There was no forcible entry or any trespassing as claimed by the prosecution. It was all done to malign his image,” Verma said to court during final arguments. The court also acquitted the MLA’s assistant Maninder Singh Mani and driver Ranjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bains-acquitted-in-ludhiana-passport-office-trespass-case-101635539094922.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala serial murder: Retired army officer held for aiding son||Eight days after a Patiala man was arrested in a double murder case, police have arrested his father for allegedly assisting him in disposing of his fiancee’s body.Navninder Pal Singh, 40, is accused of choking his fiancee Chapinder Pal Kaur, 28, of Bathinda to death on October 14. His father, identified as Balwant Singh, 84, retired as a lieutenant colonel from the army and is presently staying at Urban Estate in Patiala.Navninder and Chapinder were to marry on October 20. He allegedly killed her and buried the body in his bedroom after she discovered that he was already married. Earlier, on September 20, Navninder had allegedly killed his first wife, Sukhdeep Kaur, 39, of Sangrur. The two had got married in February 2018.Helped bury fiancee’s bodyPatiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harcharan Singh Bhullar said Balwant Singh knew about his son’s relationships and marriages with different women.“During investigations, it came to light that Balwant assisted his son in disposing of and burying Chapinder’s body besides helping his son in distorting the evidence,” said the SSP, adding that he has been nominated in the case under Section 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code.One of the officials said the investigators were suspecting involvement of family members following which they questioned them. “It is not possible to dig a four-foot-deep pit in a room alone when other family members reside in the same house,” an official said. Was planning to kill another wifeThe SSP said during investigation, Navninder also deposed that he was planning to kill his second wife Lakhwinder Kaur of Sangrur’s Bhawanigarh. Lakhwinder, who married the accused in October 2018, has been living near his residence.“The accused was habitual of having affairs with different women and marrying them before killing them. Navninder told police that he used to watch murder thrillers to get ideas about committing such offences and destroying evidence,” the SSP said. The accused had used nitrogen gas to kill both women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-serial-murder-retired-army-officer-held-for-aiding-son-101635539043747.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala farmers protest against FIR registered on BJP leader’s complaint||Hundreds of protesters under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) staged a dharna outside the Dhanaula police station in Barnala on Friday to oppose the registration of a case against eight farmers for allegedly damaging the crops of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Harjit Singh Grewal.Farmers led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha had allegedly uprooted paddy from the fields belonging to Grewal at his native place in Dhanaula in July this year. Police recently nominated eight farmers in the FIR and arrested four of them.Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Balwant Singh Uppli said police had registered a “false” FIR under Grewal’s pressure. He said farmers will keep opposing the BJP leader, who has remained at loggerheads with them over the three agriculture laws, and intensify the agitation for cancelling the FIR.“We have also submitted an application against Grewal for using derogatory language against women farmers. We demand that an FIR be registered against him and the false case against farmers be quashed,” said Uppli.Dhanaula police station in-charge Harsimranjit Singh said investigations are still on in the case against farmers. It was registered under Sections 441 (criminal trespass), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-farmers-protest-against-fir-registered-on-bjp-leader-s-complaint-101635539041147.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: PSPCL to procure 500 MW solar power||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has received bids from across the country after it floated two tenders to procure 500 MW solar power. The two projects with the capacity of 250 MW each will help meet the rising demand of power in the state and provide a green alternative, said a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office.According to PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad, under the first tender for procurement from projects located anywhere in India, ReNew Dinkar Jyoti Private Limited has offered 250 MW solar power for ₹2.33/kWh. Under the second tender for procurement from projects located anywhere in Punjab, SJVN Limited has offered 100 MW solar power for ₹2.69/kWh and SAEL Limited has offered 50 MW solar power for ₹2.69/kWh. Other agreementsThe CMD also pointed out that PSPCL had signed a power sale agreement with the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) under which 500 MW hybrid (solar and wind) power will be made available to the corporation from this December in phases, and is likely to be fully available by the end of this fiscal. Likewise, the PSPCL has also signed a memorandum of understanding with Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL), which a joint venture of public sector undertakings under the power ministry, for development of 140 MW solar power projects on spare land of 66 KV substations to increase the share of clean, green and low tariff renewable energy, said Prasad. He said the corporation has already tied up for about 951 MW solar power from various projects and PSPCL is committed to serve its consumers with best quality of reliable and cheap power. With the addition of this power, the PSPCL’s generation capacity will be enhanced to 14,500 MW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabpspcl-to-procure-500-mw-solar-power-101635539039828.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur women’s college chairman booked after ruckus over principal’s suspension||The chairman of a women’s college in Sangrur and his aides have been booked for allegedly stopping the principal from entering the premises and misbehaving with students, police said on Friday. The alleged incident took place at the Akal Degree College for Women on Thursday. The FIR was registered against chairman Karanvir Singh Sibia, management committee and unidentified men on the complaint of college principal Sukhmeen Kaur Sidhu. Sidhu said that when she reached the college on Thursday morning, the management closed the main gate and a clerk gave her Sibia’s written orders stating that “she could not enter into the college”. Her suspension orders, dated October 23, were also cited.After she sat on a dharna at the gate, some outsiders allegedly used derogatory language and misbehaved with girl students when they tried to meet her, the complaint stated.The dharna went on for about an hour till the management allowed her entry after receiving a government communication about the cancellation of her suspension orders.Sibia could not be contacted for a comment after he was booked. However, on Thursday, he had stated: “After the receipt of state orders, the management complied with them and allowed Sidhu to join the college immediately.”Sangrur deputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said a case has been registered on the principal’s complaint and investigation in underway. Sibia and others have been booked under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person, otherwise than on grave provocation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-women-s-college-chairman-booked-after-ruckus-over-principal-s-suspension-101635539038519.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police take stock of security along border in Amritsar||Punjab Police have stepped up efforts to strengthen the state’s second line of defence along the India-Pakistan border to tackle anti-national activities, especially movement of drones for smuggling arms and drugs, amid the festive season.Monish Chawla, inspector general (IG), border range, Amritsar, on Friday visited various sensitive border outposts (BoPs) in Amritsar district and held meetings with Border Security Force (BSF) officials for better coordination. The visit comes a day after a drone was spotted along the border near Ajnala in Amritsar. In recent months, there has been a spike in such sightings as well as recoveries of drones and smuggled contraband attached to them.“Activities of anti-national elements increase during the festival season. To keep a strict vigil on every suspected movement from across the border, better coordination between the BSF and Punjab Police is mandatory. During the meeting with BSF officials, issues related to infiltration, drone activities and problems in guarding the border during the foggy season were discussed,” said a senior police official.BSF commandant Kulwant Singh was present as the police officials visited Dharam Parkash, Singhuke, Panjgarayian and Shahpur border outposts among others. “We often increase our vigil along the border in festival seasons. Foggy season is also approaching, and we will increase our manpower to ensure maximum security,” said a BSF official“We have installed several nakas at various sensitive points leading to the border. Movement of every suspect is being watched closely. Our officials are also in regular touch with BSF officials to tackle any kind of anti-national activities from across the border,” said senior superintendent of police, Amritsar Rural, Rakesh Kaushal, who accompanied the IG. Sources said police have also stationed special bullet proof vehicles near the border to handle any kind of untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-take-stock-of-security-along-border-in-amritsar-101635539037328.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Area under basmati rice shrinks by 25% this kharif season||Punjab’s diversification plan has suffered adversely as the area under the premium paddy variety basmati has shrunk by one-fourth this kharif season. According to figures released by Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), basmati was sown over 4.4 lakh hectare this season, against last year’s area of 6 lakh hectares under cultivation, witnessing a steep fall of around 25%. For the past half a decade, the centre has been studying the cropping pattern, recording areas under different crops in kharif and rabi seasons. Basmati is the best bet for diversification as it consumes half the water required to grow parmal varieties, which consume 3,367 litres of water for a kilogram of rice. Adding to the glory, Punjab has the GI (geographic indication) tag for this aromatic variety, which makes it the native crop of the region and a favourite of rice eaters worldwide. The premium crop is cultivated in the border districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, and some parts of Moga, Muktsar and Faridkot. Farmers shifting to parmalThe fall in area is attributed to poor economics attached with the premium crop, forcing the basmati growers to shift to parmal, which is covered under the system of minimum support price. This season, parmal varieties have been cultivated over 26 lakh hectares of area. “An acre of basmati gives a yield of 18-20 quintals, which sells for ₹2,400 a quintal making a total sale of ₹48,000. While the yield of an acre of parmal variety is 30-32 quintal, which sells at a fixed price of ₹1,940 per acre,” said an official of the state’s food and civil supplies department. He added that parmal fetches per acre value of ₹58,000-62,000, leading to ₹10,000-12,000 profit. According to officials, there needs to be a system to regulate prices offered to basmati growers by traders to ensure they don’t get fleeced. ‘Sanctions on Iran hit exports’Ashok Sethi, director, basmati exporters’ association, said the fall in prices is due to the closure of business with Iran, which used to import grain worth ₹12,000 crore from the state. “We are hopeful of an upward swing in the basmati market once the sanctions imposed on Iran by the US are lifted. The sanctions have disturbed the basmati trade in India, particularly in Punjab,” he said. Annually, basmati export from India is worth ₹34,000 crore (USD 4.66 billion), out of with Punjab contributes 40%. The quantum of Indian basmati rice consumed in Saudi Arabia is 50% of the total import to Middle East, which is 70% of the exports. Other countries and regions that import from India majorly include Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, North America and Europe. Harpreet Singh, a basmati grower from Batala, said basmati’s 1509 variety sold for ₹2,400 to ₹2800 per quintal this season. “Let us see how much price the late varieties, expected to arrive in mandis within 10 days, are able to fetch,” he said. He said the continuous fall in prices over two to three years has forced farmers to stop cultivating the premium grain and shift to water guzzling parmal varieties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabarea-under-basmati-rice-shrinks-by-25-this-kharif-season-101635539035982.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sacrilege cases: Special public prosecutor not to appear before trial court till November 23||The Punjab government on Friday undertook before court that special public prosecutor Rajwinder Singh Bains, appointed to conduct trial in the 2015 post sacrilege violence cases, would not appear before trial court till November 23.The undertaking was given in a plea in which his appointment was challenged by former Bajakhana station house officer (SHO) Amarjit Singh Kullar, one of the accused in these FIRs. Bains was appointed special public prosecutor on October 1 to speed up trial in these politically sensitive cases to appear before trial courts as well as in high court. Kullar’s counsel had argued that Bains has been a counsel and has appeared for the complainant and the kin of the victim in two separate petitions in high court and espoused their cause. As per settled law, the public prosecutor is to act in an independent and impartial manner. However, in view of previous engagements of Bains, there is an apparent and manifest conflict of interest, the court was told.It was also argued that even otherwise his appointment is in violation of Section 24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) as the fact of him representing the complainant was not considered in the decision making process of his appointment. The court was also told that on this appointment, there has been no consultation with the high court on administrative side, which is mandatory. Though detailed order is awaited, the high court while seeking response from Bains and the state government posted the matter for hearing on November 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sacrilege-cases-special-public-prosecutor-not-to-appear-before-trial-court-till-november-23-101635539034660.html
30-10-2021||Other||381 Covid cases, seven deaths in Karnataka||Bengaluru: Karnataka on Friday logged 381 new cases and seven deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 2,987,694 and 38,061, the health department said.The day also saw 305 people being discharged, pushing the total number of recoveries to 2,940,978.Active cases stood at 8,626, a department bulletin said.Bengaluru urban district reported 179 new cases and four deaths.Other districts too recorded fresh cases including 55 in Mysuru, 35 in Dakshina Kannada, 28 in Hassan, 21 in Kodagu and 10 each in Udupi and Uttara Kannada.While nine districts reported zero infections, 14 districts had cases in single digits.Chikkaballapura, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad reported one death each, the bulletin said.Bagalkote, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Gadag, Haveri, Koppal, Raichur, and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero COVID-19 related deaths. As many as 27 districts reported zero fatalities.The positivity rate for the day was 0.33 per cent and the case fatality rate was 1.83 per cent.A total of 1,12,658 samples were tested in the state including 90,143 today, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 5.06 crore.The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 6.5 crore, with 2,24,144 people being inoculated on Friday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/381-covid-cases-seven-deaths-in-karnataka-101635537114647.html
30-10-2021||Other||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea against Karnataka govt’s move to limit inter-state travel due to Covid||New Delhi: The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain a plea challenging the Karnataka government’s decision to restrict entry from Kerala at borders of Kasaragod and Mangalore only to those having a negative RT-PCR report saying there was no violation of the fundamental rights of persons.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai observed that COVID has not yet ended and the conditions imposed are not unreasonable and issued in the larger public interest.The apex court said otherwise there is no restriction on the movement of citizens from Kerala to Karnataka.The bench said the earlier restrictions have been relaxed by Karnataka by issuing a revised circular dated July 31, 2021, which had relaxed the requirement for RT-PCR test taken within 15 days from the date of travel. This was done in the interest of students, business professionals, and others, it said.“The rights of movement of individuals from the State of Kerala to the State of Karnataka is not restricted. There is no violation of any fundamental rights of persons in Kasargod district to travel to Mangalore or other parts of Karnataka. Circulars issued by the State of Karnataka cannot be interfered with by this court in the interest of larger public health. Therefore we see no reason to interfere,” the bench said.The apex court granted liberty to the petitioner to make a representation to the Karnataka government on the issue.Advocate Haris Beeran, appearing for a Kerala MLA, submitted that the people in Kasargod depend on Mangalore city for education, medicare, and other needs. It was also his contention that their travel to Mangalore daily has been inhibited by the circulars issued by Karnataka.Beeran referred to the guidelines issued by the Centre to the states and Union Territories (UTs) which asked not to place any restrictions on the intra-state movement of persons and goods by air, water, or road. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by Manjeshwar constituency MLA A K M Ashraf challenging the September 28 order of the Kerala High Court which had dismissed two pleas challenging the Karnataka government’s decision to restrict entry from Kerala at borders of Kasaragod and Mangalore only to those having a negative RT-PCR report, saying the neighbouring state was well within its powers to issue such directions.The high court had said it was an admitted fact there was no blockade of the roads from Kerala to Karnataka and the restrictions, like a negative RT-PCR certificate, were imposed within that state because of the unprecedented surge of COVID-19 pandemic prevalent in Kerala.“Therefore, going by the guidelines issued by the central government, it is clear that under any such circumstances, the states are given the power and responsibility to impose reasonable restrictions, to combat the disease.“Therefore, state of Karnataka was well within its powers to issue circulars, orders or guidelines under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in consonance with various guidelines issued by the central government,” the high court had said while dismissing the two PILs, one by Ashraf and the other by Jayananda K R, the Secretary of Rastrakavi Manjeshwara Govinda Pai Smaraka Samithi.The high court had said that the Karnataka government has the necessary leverage to issue circulars, taking into account the situations prevailing in the neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra.“Viewed from that angle, it can never be said that a part of the cause of action for the writ petitions has arisen within the state of Kerala. This is more so when there is no absolute prohibition for the citizens of Kerala to travel to Karnataka by any means, but we can only view it as restrictions imposed by the state of Karnataka.“Whether the restrictions imposed within the State of Karnataka are reasonable or not, is a matter to be considered and decided by the jurisdictional High Court,” the bench had said.PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-karnataka-govt-s-move-to-limit-inter-state-travel-due-to-covid-101635536815843.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah meets oldest BJP cadre||An old BJP cadre, said to be 107-year-old, was also present for the meeting that Union Home minister Amit Shah had with party leaders at the Indira Gandhi Pratisthaan on Friday. Shree Narayan alias Bhulai Bhai has been with the party since the inception of Jan Sangh, which later paved the way for the emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Bhulai Bhai was a Jan Sangh lawmaker from Naurangia assembly segment (present day Khadda assembly segment) in Kushinagar. In 1977, he was again elected lawmaker. Party leaders say that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken to him during the Covid surge. Only recently, defence minister Rajnath Singh too had met him separately after watching him stand in a queue of partymen waiting to see him. “He still tells how party ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya himself offered him food from his plate and blessed him with a long life,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-meets-oldest-bjp-cadre-101635536695023.html
30-10-2021||Other||Karnataka: Opposition attacks Bommai govt over bitcoin hacking case||Bengaluru: On February 12, then Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai in a review meeting told the told the top brass of the state police to make priority cybercrime originating from the dark web their priority. Bommai had then said the police have cracked some cases, but they were only the tip of the iceberg.The statement came months after the Karnataka police arrested 25-year-old Srikrishna, who had allegedly hacked into three bitcoin exchanges, multiple online poker applications and one government e-procurement website. Bitcoins worth ₹9 crore were recovered from him, which he had either stolen using data theft or through online extortion. He is also accused in the case of stealing ₹11 crore from the e-procurement portal.It was this case that prompted Bommai to give the police a new direction, which has now snowballed into a controversy where the Opposition is accusing the government of trying to cover up the case.Srikrishna was caught on November 18 after police arrested some drug dealers, to whom he had allegedly sold drugs procured from the dark web. Srikrishna graduated in computer science from a college in Amsterdam in the Netherlands in 2017.A senior police officer said Srikrishna would encrypt data and demand payment from owners for the site to be unlocked by attacking the sites online. “After returning to Bengaluru, he could not find any job. He then started hacking gaming and other websites to steal data. He also used to create mirror sites and get information on credit or debit cards used by people who accessed the sites to steal money,” the senior officer said requesting anonymity.Police said Srikrishna used online gaming platforms with chat boxes to communicate with buyers of data but mostly, he would walk up to people on the road and ask if he could use their phone claiming he had lost his own. “He would tell them he had to get in touch with someone urgently and download Wickr app on the stranger’s phone,” the officer said. Wickr is an encrypted messaging app, which also has a ‘burn-on-read’ setting, where the recipient will have access to the message only for a limited time after receiving it.Police had to introduce new standard operating procedures since presenting bitcoin as evidence in court was a challenge. A senior police officer explained that a bitcoin account was opened in the police department’s name and the 33 bitcoin Srikrishna had in his possession, was transferred to that account. Though it seemed like a straightforward cybercrime, the enforcement directorate was involved to probe a possible money laundering angle, involving the hacker. ED probe has revealed that he had laundered the ₹11 crore stolen from the e-procurement portal to different bank accounts.Officers aware of the developments said that controversy over bitcoins started over the money laundering charges. The suspect despite having cases of serious financial crimes against him is out on bail. It is alleged that while the official records show that 33 bitcoins were recovered from him, in fact, the seizure was much bigger. “A tip-off from an international intelligence, which was tracking the hacker’s activity, had tipped off India’s central agencies. From the information available to us, now there is a probe into whether there was cover up and bribe paid in the form of cryptocurrency,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-opposition-attacks-bommai-govt-over-bitcoin-hacking-case-101635536574521.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||F Bar firing case: Punjab and Haryana HC stays criminal proceedings against UT inspector||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the criminal proceedings against UT police inspector and former station house officer, Sector-26, Poonam Dilawari.The high court bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur acted on her plea against a Chandigarh court summoning her and a sub-inspector, Maluk Singh, on a criminal complaint by Gunkaran Singh.The order summoning the duo was passed on May 3. In the complaint, Gunkaran had alleged that he was wrongly arrested and implicated in an FIR on November 20, 2018. The allegation was that his arrest and the implication was done by her and the investigating officer, Mulak Singh. Gunkaran is the owner of the discotheque, F Bar. On November 19, 2018, shots were fired allegedly by the members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang in the bar during the birthday celebrations of Sahdev Salaria, an aide of MP Kirron Kher, leaving four persons injured. Gunkaran had claimed that he did not direct the security guard not to frisk guests, but was involved in the FIR.Senior advocate Chetan Mittal had told the court that a challan had been presented against him and the additional sessions court had framed charges against him while dismissing his discharge application. The summoning order under Section 211 of the IPC (false charge of offence with the intent to injure) could not have been issued on the private complaint as cognisance on such complaint is barred under Section 195 of CrPC. It was also argued that he was under custody on the orders of the court which could not be said to be illegal detention. Hence, there is no question of Section 342 of the IPC (wrongful confinement). The high court has stayed the proceedings and sought a response by December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/f-bar-firing-case-punjab-and-haryana-hc-stays-defamation-proceedings-against-ut-inspector-101635536394480.html
30-10-2021||Other||Kannada superstar Puneeth Rajkumar dies: ‘He never considered himself a hero’||Bengaluru: It was around 2002 when I first met Puneeth Rajkumar, right before the release of his first movie in the lead role, “Appu”. “Do not be afraid of asking anything. Ask any question no matter how controversial, I will answer and you can write the same,” he told the waiting reporters, some of whom were nervous, knowing that he was the son of the biggest name in the Kannada film industry, Dr Rajkumar. This characteristic of the young actor made an instant impression on not just the reporters gathered to interview him, but to many whose lives he touched throughout his illustrious career. Not many doubted his acting prowess. After all, he made his first appearance on big screen when he was only six months’ old in the movie ‘Premada Kanike’, starring his father Dr Rajkumar. He even won the national award before his father, in 1985 for the movie ‘Bettada Hoovu’, when he was just 10 years’ old. He was also known to promote newcomers in the industry through his production house which produced films, TV serials among other content. Puneeth never used his status as Rajkumar’s son to promote himself or his films, however, directors and producers never shied away from using the star’s dynasty. Though out his illustrious career, spanning over 49 films — he missed the half century as ‘Dwitwa’ and ‘James’ are still under production —his attitude towards cinema and people in general never changed over the years. After each release, he would call me to get my opinion on his role and if there was anything he could have done differently. He would welcome criticism just the same as he would accept appreciation. I am sure he asked others for their opinions as well. He had some big hits under his belt, including ‘Appu’, ‘Arasu’, ‘Doddamane Huduga’, ‘Rajakumara’ and ‘Yuvarathna’. Almost all his movies focused to some degrees on social messages like rightful treatment of women, children and elders, which eventually became a sort of his signature style. His movies ‘Prthivi’ and ‘Ranavikrama’ were about the illegal mining in Karnataka’s Ballari district, which was at its peak in real life, as he played a deputy collector, taking the empire of bad guys head-on. Incidentally, Puneeth himself was into the granite business before his entry into cinema as the leading man. One day, his father called him and said there was no need to sell “stone and land” for a living as there was an industry that he could call his own, prompting a debut soon after. He had also written a book on his father (published in 2012) “the person behind the personality” and any earnings from this, he used it to fund government schools in the border districts of Karnataka. He was also a prolific singer who never took any remuneration for them. A significant chunk of his earnings went to old age homes and he had even adopted 45 Kannada schools. He never considered himself a hero, was a big fitness enthusiast and a humble soul. He would sometimes cycle to Mysuru, covering 125 km from Bengaluru. A director’s actor, Puneeth never discriminated between juniors and seniors. He stayed honest about everything in life: a trait that became one of his many loveable and adored characteristics, earning him not just a huge fan base for his reel life, but also in real life. (As told to Sharan Poovanna )(Muralidhar Khajane is a veteran journalist, who has covered cinema, politics among other beats for over 40 years. He is also the writer of book, ‘Random Reflections Kaleidescopic Musings on Kannada Cinema’)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kannada-superstar-puneeth-rajkumar-dies-he-never-considered-himself-a-hero-101635536334525.html
30-10-2021||Other||Telangana’s Huzurabad assembly gears up for a triangular fight today||Karimnagar The stage is set for polling in the bye-election to Huzurabad assembly constituency in Telangana on Saturday, with the ruling TRS, opposition BJP and Congress locked in a triangular contest.As many as 2,37,036 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise, district collector RV Karnan said on Friday. They include 1,17,933 male and 1,19,102 female voters.Polling would start at 7 AM and continue till 7 PM in 306 polling stations in the constituency.As many as 1,715 polling personnel, including presiding officers, have been deployed. “Live webcasting” would be done in the polling stations, he said.COVID-19 protocols would be followed strictly, he said.Karimnagar Police Commissioner V.Satyanarayana said 107 polling stations have been identified to be sensitive and additional forces are arranged there. As many as 3,865 police personnel have been posted to ensure smooth conduct of the polling. Twenty companies of Central forces have also been deployed.The bye-election has been necessitated in Huzurabad in view of the resignation of Eatala Rajender in June following his removal from the state Cabinet over allegations of land grabbing.Rajender, who dismissed the allegations, has quit the TRS and joined the BJP. He is seeking re-election on BJP ticket.Though as many as 30 candidates are in the fray, the main contest is among Gellu Srinivas Yadav (TRS), Eatala Rajender (BJP) and Venkat Balmoori (Congress). The bypoll is a do-or-die battle for Rajender, while it is significant for the BJP as it aims at emerging as the alternative to ruling TRS in the 2023 Legislative Assembly elections.It is crucial for the TRS as well as it would like to demonstrate that its dominance in state politics continues unchallenged.The counting of votes would be taken up on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telanganas-huzurabad-assembly-gears-up-for-a-triangular-fight-today-101635535739911.html
30-10-2021||Other||PM Modi, politicians, celebrities pay tribute after Kannada superstar Puneeth Rajkumar dies||Bengaluru: Soon after the news of the death of 46-year-old Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar due to cardiac arrest surfaced in the media on Friday, tributes poured in from all sections of society and from across the country, including politicians cutting across party lines, celebrities from across the country and fans alike.Sharing a picture with the actor and his wife Ashwini Revanth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “A cruel twist of fate has snatched away from us a prolific and talented actor, Puneeth Rajkumar. This was no age to go. The coming generations will remember him fondly for his works and wonderful personality. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti!” He posted another tweet in Kannada.Puneeth was the youngest son of Dr Rajkumar, one of Kannada cinema’s legends, who died in 2006. His mother Parvathamma Rajumar was a producer and one of the most influential names in Kannada cinema. His brothers--Shiva Rajkumar and Raghavendra Rajkumar--are also actors and producers, making this arguably the first family of Kannada cinema industry.“Anguished by the untimely demise of noted Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar. After starting his career as a child artiste, he made a mark as a phenomenal actor, playback singer, TV presenter and producer. Indeed, he was a man of many talents. #PuneethRajkumar,” Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu posted from the official handle on Twitter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also joined in to pay tributes to the late actor. “My heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and fans of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar. Gone too soon,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin said, “Deeply shocked and appalled to hear about the sudden demise of Power Star Puneeth Rajkumar who is also the son of late legendary Kannada star Rajkumar avargal. Both our families share a cordial bond for many decades. Thus, it’s a personal loss to me.” His colleagues from film fraternity also paid rich tributes. “Appu, you cannot leave us so shattered. You are a gem I have known. I am not able to take this news. Don’t go Appu... come back…pls come back. Pls. #RIP #PuneethRajkumar,” Khusboo Sundar, one of southern cinema’s biggest actors said on Twitter, while changing her display picture on the micro blogging site with a photo of Appu.“One of the kindest and warmest Actors/gentlemen. Praying to the almighty to give Puneeth Sir’s family, friends and his ocean of fans the strength to cope with this irreplaceable loss,” Dulquer Salmaan, actor and son of Malayalam cinema legend Mammootty said.Over the decades, there have been seamless collaborations between different film industries in the south.Sumalatha Ambareesh, former actor and MP from Mandya, said she was in shock. “We are all so fond of him and he was just 46. It’s unbelievable for anyone to believe this,” she told HT, trying to hold back tears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-modi-politicians-celebrities-pay-tribute-after-kannada-superstar-puneeth-rajkumar-dies-101635535616013.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of deceased end protest after Karnal admn accepts their demands||The family members of an 18-year-old youth from Haryana, who had allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Thursday, have ended their protest following an assurance from the Karnal district administration on their demands.The family was protesting since Thursday, alleging that the youth had committed suicide after police challaned him for ₹13,500, and thrashed him.The Karnal district administration has agreed to register an FIR against unknown cops as per complaint of the family. Government job on DC rate to a family member of the deceased and compensation of ₹1 lakh to the aggrieved family was also assured.Following the assurance by Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia, the deceased’s family agreed to cremate the body and end their protest.“We have registered a case under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unknown police personnel,” Punia said.The DC has assured that he will also submit a case to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is also the Karnal MLA, on demand of compensation of ₹25 lakh to the family.As per information, the deceased, a resident of Mangal Colony Part-II in Karnal, used to work in a mattress factory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-of-deceased-end-protest-after-karnal-admn-accepts-their-demands-101635535614425.html
30-10-2021||Other||Chorus to bring VS Sasikala back in AIADMK grows after poll debacle||Chennai: The AIADMK’s debacle in the rural local body polls held earlier this month after their loss in the assembly elections in May is leading to voices in favour of uniting with Sasikala so the party can be stronger ahead of the urban local body polls slated to be conducted in the ensuing months. Even leaders who have staunchly opposed her entry have changed their mind to at least discussing the Sasikala factor even as she started her tour of the districts in a van used by J Jayalalithaa during election campaigns.“Why should we say that there won’t be any discussion? Clearly it seems like some people want her in the party especially now that we have lost two elections,” said a veteran party leader who did not wish to be identified. The leader who is a supporter of O Panneerselvam added that Pannerselvam had suggestion last week that the AIADMK leadership will discuss her reinduction.“After having the discussion we will abide by what the majority of the cadre want. So, it can either mean Sasiakla and her family will not be taken back or if the majority wishes for that so the party can be strengthened and we cannot deny that wish. We are a cadre-based party,” he said.AIADMK’s members have been speaking in different voices in public taking either a pro or an anti-Sasikala stance. On Thursday, AIADMK had expelled a senior party leader and deputy secretary for minorities wing, J M Basheer, for saying that he would expose former CM Edappadi Palaniswami on the issue of Sasikala’s return.On Friday morning, Sasikala is said to have used the same campaign van of late J Jayalalithaa in Madurai to garland the statue Muthuramalinga Thevar, a freedom fighter and an icon for the thevar community. Sasikala and Panneerselvam belong to the Thevar community which is predominant in the southern districts. She then made her way to his hometown in Pasumpon to pay tributes.On Saturday, chief minister MK Stalin, AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami, leaders from Congress and BJP will also pay tribute to Thevar’s statue in Pasumpom. As frictions are emerging to the fore in the AIADMK, the community support will play a significant role on the leader who can consolidate the party--a position currently occupied by Palaniswami; but is being threatened by Sasikala with the support of Panneerselvam. Another AIADMK leader said that channels of communication have been open between Panneerselvam and Sasikala. “We didn’t want to act hastily ahead of the elections but we were waiting for the right time to bring necessary changes to the party,” he said. Since Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, the AIADMK under the dual leadership of Panneerselvam and Palaniswami has lost three elections- 2019 parliamentary elections, 2021 assembly elections and the local body polls in nine newly carved rural districts. Political analysts say caste-factor played a role in AIADMK’s defeat in the recently held rural local body elections in nine districts. “AIADMK didn’t conduct polls to rural bodies during their regime because they are weak in this region,” said political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy. “Among the three castes who support AIADMK-vellala gounder, vanniyar and mukkulathor-- are not present much in these regions so in any situation AIADMK’s performance will be bad. This is unavoidable. Based on this, we cannot assess their performance in 2024 (general elections) and 2026 (assembly elections). That will depend on their alliance partners and situation.” Duraisamy said, adding despite the given developments Panneerselvam will not give up his right in the party. “He will continue to be in the dual leadership. Sasikala’s strength is still questionable but he can keep her close for his future growth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chorus-to-bring-vs-sasikala-back-in-aiadmk-grows-after-poll-debacle-101635535499324.html
30-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin inspects ancient Sangam-era excavation site||Chennai Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday inspected the ancient excavation site of Keeladi in Sivaganga district where the archaeological findings reveal the Sangam-era settlement on the banks of Vaigai river.About 11,470 artifacts were dug out from Keeladi and group of sites over sustained excavation over the years and these would be displayed at the site museum. The CM who visited the Sivaganga district near Madurai, enquired with the archaeological officials the status of museum to be established at an outlay of ₹12.21 crore.“The chief minister enquired with the officials about the state-of-the-art site museum coming up at a cost of ₹12.21. The artifacts which have been excavated would be showcased at the museum,” an official release said.Stalin who had earlier visited the site in his capacity of leader of the opposition party in the legislature, spent time going around the exhibits and interacting with the Tamil Nadu Archaeology department officials. State Ministers K K S S R Ramachandran, K R Periakaruppan, Thangam Thennarasu, P Moorthy, and Raja Kannappan, were present on the occasion. Principal secretary to Chief Minister T Udhayachandran, Principal secretary for tourism and culture B Chandra Mohan and Sivaganga district collector Madhusudhanan Reddy were among the officials who made a presentation to the Chief Minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-cm-mk-stalin-inspects-ancient-sangam-era-excavation-site-101635535442189.html
30-10-2021||Other||Mullaperiyar dam: Ruling party, Opposition spar in Kerala assembly||Thiruvananthapuram A day after the Supreme court directed to maintain the water level in Mullaperiyar dam at 139.5 feet as notified by an expert panel, the Kerala Assembly on Friday witnessed the ruling and opposition members sparring over the dam and the stand taken by the Left government on the issue.Attacking the government, the Congress-led UDF alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s recent statement that there was no need for anxiety with regard to the dam was used by the Tamil Nadu government to protect their interests.Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala claimed that the government failed to present the state’s views clearly before the Supreme Court.Supporting his stand, his party colleagues Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and K Babu said the Vijayan government backtracked from its stand of maintaining the water level at 136 feet and they failed in finding a political solution to the problem.However, Finance Minister K N Balagopal rejected the charges and said the government has always tried to protect the state’s interests in the decades-old dispute with the neighbouring state.Minister for Industries and Law, P Rajeev made it clear that through the ‘no need for anxiety’ remark, the Chief Minister only intended not to create scare through social media platforms.The war of words over Mullaperiyar cropped up in the House during the time of discussion.The Supreme Court on Thursday said Tamil Nadu and Kerala would abide by the water level notified by the expert committee as per which it would be maintained at 139.5 feet till November 10 in the over-a-century-old Mullaperiyar dam.The dam was built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar said it would be open to the committee to review its decision about water level if the situation warrants it. The apex court posted the matter for hearing on November 11 to enable Kerala to file a better affidavit, especially to deal with the issue on the rule curve and about the correct approach in that regard.The shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala, operated by Tamil Nadu, were raised on Friday morning as the water level in the reservoir crossed 138 ft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mullaperiyar-dam-ruling-party-opposition-spar-in-kerala-assembly-101635535437216.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Strong Africa-Haryana ties top priority, says Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the state government will engage with African countries to develop frameworks of cooperation, maintain brotherhood, and promote cultural exchange and people-to-people contact.Addressing the delegates on the second day of the Haryana-Africa Conclave, the CM said today the world is at crossroads of transformation.“New technology and digital interfaces are creating a world which is opening new opportunities as well as challenges. New processes and products are opening new ways of economic development,” Khattar said.Diplomats from 12 African countries – Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania, Madagascar, Nigeria, Eritrea, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Senegal, Kenya, Ethiopia, and Ghana – are attending the conclave.Khattar said discussions during the conclave will help create stronger Haryana-Africa ties on socio economic development.Assuring the visiting countries of Haryana’s support, the CM said Africa will be one of our top priorities. “We will build as much local capacity and create as many local opportunities as possible. It will be on terms that will be comfortable for you, will liberate your potential and not constrain your future. We will keep our markets open and make it easier and more attractive to trade with Haryana. We already have a significant trade and businesses with Africa and will support our industry to work in Africa, he added.He assured that Haryana’s experience with the digital revolution will be harnessed to support Africa’s development, improve delivery of public services, extend education and health services, spread digital literacy, expand financial inclusion, and mainstream the marginalised.The CM said Africa has approximately 60% of the world’s arable land, but produces just around 10% of the global output. Similarly, Haryana constitutes 1.5% of India’s area, yet contributes 15% of its agricultural produce.“We will work with you to improve Africa’s agriculture through long-term engagements in sharing and implementing the best practices in the sector,” he said while addressing the diplomats.Khattar said since the state government believes in communication and transparency, an accountable governance mechanism in the form of Right to Service and use of auto appeal software has been implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/strong-africa-haryana-ties-top-priority-says-khattar-101635535378301.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||JNU cancels webinar on Kashmir after a section of teachers, students protests||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Friday night cancelled an online webinar on the situation in Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 amid protests by a section of teachers and students.“As soon as it came to our notice that an online webinar titled ‘Gendered Resistance and Fresh Challenges in Post-2019 Kashmir’ was going to be organised at 8.30pm today [Friday] by Centre for Women’s Studies, JNU, the JNU administration immediately instructed the faculty member organising the event to cancel it,” JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said in a press statement issued late Friday night.The press statement added: “The notice of the webinar says, ‘This talk will draw and build upon the ethnography of… gendered resistance to Indian occupation in Kashmir.’ This is a highly objectionable and provocative subject, which questions the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. JNU cannot be a platform for this kind of very questionable webinar. The matter is being inquired into.”Kumar also said the faculty member did not seek the permission of the administration before planning such an event.The statement was released after a faction of JNU teachers and students, under the banner of JNU Teacher’s Forum (JNUTF) objected to the event. “A webinar in JNU declares ‘Indian occupation in Kashmir’. JNUTF strongly opposes such an anti-national stand taken by the Centre for Women’s Studies. JNU must take action against those involved in organising it,” JNUTF said in a statement four hours before the administration announced the cancellation.The students’ outfit Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad also objected to the seminar. Shivam Chaurasia, president ABVP-JNU, said they demanded that the administration stop this webinar as “it undermines the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of India and the Constitution of India.”The group also demanded severe action against those who were a part of the organising team of this webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-cancels-webinar-on-kashmir-after-a-section-of-teachers-students-protests-101635535374446.html
30-10-2021||Other||YSR Congress looks set to bag Badvel seat in Andhra Pradesh by-election||Hyderabad It’s advantage for ruling YSR Congress party in the by-election to Badvel assembly constituency in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district, with main opposition Telugu Desam Party opting out of the contest and two other contenders – Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress not having enough strength to fight the battle.The by-election to Badvel is necessitated due to the sudden death of sitting YSRCP MLA Dr Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah in March this year due to illness.The YSRCP has fielded Subbaiah’s widow Dasari Sudha, a practising doctor, to cash in on the sympathy factor. Moreover, Kadapa has been the bastion of YSRCP led by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and in the last elections, the party swept all the 10 assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats in the district.Badvel, too, has been the stronghold of YSRCP, which has been representing this constituency for the last two terms. Naturally, it has the advantage over others in winning the by-poll to be held on October 30.Interestingly, the TDP, which initially announced the candidature of Obulapuram Rajasekhar who unsuccessfully contested the last assembly elections, for Badvel, but opted out of the contest after YSRCP announced the candidature of deceased MLA’s widow.“As per the tradition established by the TDP itself, we don’t want to contest the by-elections, if the spouse of a sitting MLA is fielded by the rival party,” TDP state president K Atchannaidu said.Jana Sena Party established by popular Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan declared that it would fight the by-polls with the help of its alliance partner BJP, but it also dropped out from the contest on the grounds that it would follow the convention of not fielding candidate against the spouse of the deceased MLA.BJP, however, sprang a surprise on its alliance partner by jumping into the fray and fielding Panthala Suresh, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 election from Railway Koduru constituency. Similarly, the Congress also fielded former MLA P M Kamalamma, who represented Badvel from 2009 to 2014.However, both the BJP and the Congress have not been strong enough to fight against the YSRCP. The Congress has lost its ground in the state completely post bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh and has been drawing blank both in the assembly as well as Lok Sabha elections since 2014. Most of its leaders and cadre have already defected to the YSRC.Similarly, the BJP has little base in Andhra Pradesh, though it won a few seats earlier due to the alliance with the TDP in the past. Yet, it wants to put up the fight in Badvel as part of its long-term plan to grow as a political alternative to the YSRCP.Several BJP leaders including state party president Somu Veerraju, BJP national general secretary Daggubati Purandeshwari, BJP national in-charge of AP Sunil Deodhar, MPs C M Ramesh and G V L Narasimha Rao and BJP state secretary Satya Kumar have been campaigning for their candidate in Badvel for the last few days.Though Jana Sena has been the alliance partner of the BJP, it has stayed away from the campaign as a matter of principle. That is also a negative factor for the BJP. “But the Jana Sena Party cadres will vote for the BJP. Even the TDP cadres are expected to vote for the BJP candidate, as they definitely won’t vote for YSRCP candidate,” a state BJP leader said.As the YSRC is sitting pretty in the Badvel constituency, it is not sweating it out much in the campaign. Party president and chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy stayed away from campaign but wrote open letters to all the voters asking them to give a huge majority to YSRCP candidate in the by-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ysr-congress-looks-set-to-bag-badvel-seat-in-andhra-pradesh-byelection-101635535316376.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||UP climate conclave: Time to plan energy conservation, say experts||LUCKNOW: With increasing urban sprawl, it was time to plan energy conservation and cut carbon emission in whatever one did, from making a building to having a meal, said experts on the second day of the ‘UP Climate Challenge Conclave-2021’ on Friday. “Carbon is emitted not only when you start making a building or start using lighting and cooling equipment, it starts from the point building material is made. There are 250 types of building materials,” said Vasudevan Suresh, chairman of the Indian Green Building Council, while addressing the technical session along with other experts. He said, “In all, 75% development is taking place in urban areas and factories, buildings and big offices are coming up. We need to think what components we use and whether we are focusing on making buildings sufficient with natural energy.” “We have green space of 2-sq mts per person but the WHO says it should be 9 sq mts per person. In fact, we need to see the present situation as an opportunity to work with abundance of sunlight in the country,” said Suresh. Vandana Sehgal, dean, department of planning and architecture, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, spoke on climate resilient infrastructure. “Mapping of the urban areas under development is now necessary to decide the energy needs,” she said. There were one billion air conditioners running in the country at present and data said by 2050 they would increase to 4.5 billion, said Anupam Bansal, an architect. Senior forest officials, including Manoj Singh, additional chief secretary, department of environment, forest and climate change, Pawan Sharma, and representatives of other organizations, including Mukesh Singh, state head and chairman of Indo-American Chamber of Commerce, Lucknow Chapter, were present in the programme. Faggan Singh Kulaste, Union minister of state for steel and rural development, said that commendable work had been done by the Yogi government since 2017, be it plantation or cleaning rivers. He requested to submit a detailed set of recommendations by experts during this two-day conclave. In all, 11 technical sessions were conducted in two days. Topics covered role of environmental legal framework in climate action, climate science-decoding 1.5 degree centigrade and climate vulnerability in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-climate-conclave-time-to-plan-energy-conservation-say-experts-101635535315143.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farm leaders refuse to open side of highway at Tikri||The Jhajjar administration on Friday held a joint meeting with the Delhi Police officials, farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws at the Tikri border, and industrialists in Bahadurgarh over clearing one side of NH-9, which connects Delhi to Rohtak. The talks, however, remained inconclusive.A senior Jhajjar police official said the farmers raised objections to the proposal of clearing one side of the road near Tikri and allowing plying of non-commercial vehicles on the highway, citing security reasons.Farm leader Buta Singh said they have agreed upon giving a five-feet way to two-wheelers but refused to allow passage of four-wheelers as it may pose threat to the safety and security of the protesters who will stay put at Tikri along the highway, and have been here for around 11 months.“The issue will now be discussed at the Samyukt Kisan Morch (SKM) meeting scheduled for November 6,” he added.Jhajjar deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said the farmers were given the proposal of allowing non-commercial vehicles on the highway as a large number of people travel to Delhi in their cars on regular basis, but they did not agree to this and sought time to discuss the matter with the SKM.The Delhi Police had removed at least six barricades on Thursday night giving hints to clear one side of the Rohtak-Delhi Highway soon. Now, only one concrete barricade remains to be removed on the border.“The Delhi Police had put up at least seven-layer barricading on the Tikri border to thwart the farmers and others entering the national capital. JCB machines worked the whole night to remove the concrete barricades and iron bars placed there but the work was stopped without removing the last barricade,” said Bablu, a protester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farm-leaders-refuse-to-open-side-of-highway-at-tikri-101635535194778.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||More farmers shifting to mustard cultivation in Haryana||Eyeing a rich harvest in the next rabi season and amid skyrocketing prices of edible oils, more and more farmers from the wheat-growing belts of Haryana are shifting towards mustard cultivation.Mustard was earlier considered a main crop in non-irrigated southern parts of Haryana but as per reports, sowing of mustard is now on the rise in the northern parts as well.With the mustard prices reaching above ₹7,000 per quintal in the open market last year against the MSP of ₹4,650 per quintal, farmers are considering mustard a better option as compared to wheat. They said mustard requires lower input cost than wheat and has become more remunerative due to sudden rise in edible oil prices.“Last year, I had earned ₹50,000 from just one acre of mustard. This year I have sown the crop on five acres,” said farmer Jasvinder Singh, of Ladwa in Kuruksehtra district.Another farmer Ishwar Singh, of Karnal’s Indri block, who has sown mustard on six acres, said it is the best option for inter-cropping with sugarcane as it takes just three to four months for harvesting.Additional chief secretary (agriculture and farmers’ welfare department of Haryana) Sumita Misra believes besides last year’s price trends and higher MSP of mustard, the state government’s efforts for crop diversification have also pushed more farmers to go for mustard cultivation.Crop diversificationAgriculture experts, on the other hand, do not term it crop diversification as they believe the government wants to increase area under oilseeds and has given a push to its cultivation by increasing the MSP.They said MSP of mustard has witnessed over 31% hike in the past five years and has further been increased to ₹5,050 per quintal for the next rabi harvesting season from ₹4,000 of 2017-18.“Farmers are not sowing mustard for diversification. The good price of mustard is a major factor behind them shifting to oilseed farming. Farmers are ready to shift to other crops if there is an assured monetary benefit,” said agriculture economist Devinder Sharma.He said the increase in mustard acreage will bring down the prices of edible oils but if the government increases import of edible oils and cuts duty on import, that will also affect the prices of mustard.On whether the government will be able to procure the entire produce of the farmers if the area under mustard increases further, Haryana agriculture department director general Hardeep Singh said, “The government will procure mustard to ensure stability of prices even if the market prices in the open market come down. The government will support the farmers with the MSP.”Mustard sown on 4.73 hectare by Oct 28 Figures of the state agriculture department revealed a considerable increase in the area under mustard cultivation in Haryana. It has increased to around 6.10 lakh hectare in 2020-21 from 5.62 lakh hectare in 2019-20.“Till October 28, mustard has already been sown on around 4.73 hectare land and there is a strong possibility that it may reach around 8 lakh hectare this year against the set estimate of 6.50 lakh hectare,” said a senior official of the state agriculture department.In 2019, the Haryana government had procured around 5.19 lakh tone mustard from farmers who had registered themselves on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal. In 2020, the government had procured only 4.53 lakh tone mustard seed on MSP.But the sudden increase in mustard acreage may create a problem as government agencies will not be able to procure the entire produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-farmers-shifting-to-mustard-cultivation-in-haryana-101635534894600.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad all set for voting today||Stakes are high for the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), ruling BJP-JJP coalition and main Opposition Congress as voting will be held in the Ellenabad constituency of Sirsa district on Saturday.As many as 1, 85,873 voters, including 98,930 males, 86, 639 females and 304 service voters, will decide the fate of INLD candidate Abhay Singh Chautala, his former aide and Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal, and BJP’s Gobind Kanda, who are locked in a triangular contest for the Ellenabad seat.As many as 17 candidates are in fray but the real contest is between these three candidates, say experts.Meanwhile, on Friday evening, independent nominee Parthvi Sandhu extended support to Abhay, who is eyeing a fourth consecutive victory from his family bastion.The bypoll was necessitated after INLD’s lone MLA Abhay had resigned from the state assembly on January 27, after the Republic Day violence at Red Fort, in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws.As per the Election Commission of India (ECI), the voting process on 211 booths in the Ellenabad constituency will start at 7am and continue till 6pm on Saturday.Of the 211 booths, 121 were considered vulnerable and most vulnerable. Ellenabad town’s booth number 116 and Mehna Khera’s booth number 9 have been established as model booths.Sirsa deputy commissioner Aneesh Yadav said they have made all necessary arrangements to ensure free and fair elections. Counting of these votes will take place on November2.Abhay hopes to retain seat; ‘golden chance’ for BJPThe Ellenabad bypoll seems crucial for the INLD and its nominee Abhay Singh Chautala because this was the only assembly seat of the 90 seats in Haryana from where INLD had won in the 2019 assembly polls.A decisive win from here would reassert INLD’s stature in the state politics and particularly in the Jat-dominated farming belt.On the other hand, BJP claims that the bypoll is a golden opportunity for them and a test for the INLD, which has been holding the agriculture dominated seat since 1996.Abhay has been representing the seat since 2010 while the BJP has never won from here. No member of the Chautala family has lost from here so far since 1966.This assembly seat includes 35% Jat voters, a majority of whom are dependent on agriculture. Hence, INLD’s Abhay Chautala is expecting their support amid the farm agitation. However, the BJP is trying to get majority of the non-Jat chunk of votes as it has fielded turncoat Gobind Kanda.Abhay said the bypoll is a referendum for the three farm laws and he is fighting for the farmers’ issues.“The BJP can make all attempts but it cannot buy the votes of Ellenabad residents. Result of the bypoll will depict BJP-JJP’s poor governance in the last two years and the farmers’ anger towards them and the three farm laws,” he added.However, BJP election in-charge for the bypoll and former state chief Subhash Barala said people need a dedicated MLA who can fight for their rights.“Due to Abhay’s attitude, INLD saw a vertical split and his party was reduced from 19 seats to just one being won by himself in the 2019 assembly polls. His estranged nephew Dushyant Chautala, who is the deputy CM, in an alliance with our party, and had proved in the 2019 polls that he is the heir of Devi Lal’s legacy by winning 10 seats. Our alliance nominee will win from here and Abhay’s dream of getting Devi’s legacy will be shattered,” Barala added.Rajender Sharma, political science professor at Rohtak’s MDU, said the bypoll will reflect the BJP-JJP’s two year rule and the farmers’ anger against Centre’s farm laws.“This bypoll is crucial for INLD to retain its place in the state assembly while will have no major impact on the BJP-JJP government. But if BJP loses, there will be a question mark on the coalition government as it had lost the Baroda bypoll last year,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-all-set-for-voting-today-101635534660367.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack: BKU Ugrahan to oppose Cong leaders in villages for not announcing relief||BKU (Ekta-Ughrahan) on Friday announced to not let Congress leadership hold political programmes in villages.The step was taken after the Left-leaning union was unable to make the state government announce compensation of ₹60,000 per acre to the cotton growers whose crop was damaged in the pink bollworm attack.BKU activists had laid siege to the Bathinda district administrative complex (DAC) on Monday after that the official work at the secretariat was completely paralysed for the next five days.On Friday, union vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke announced to end a blockade of the secretariat.He said it was decided that Congress leader would face gherao if she or he enters any village for political activities.Jethuke charged the Congress government with being insensitive to their demand of compensation for the loss of cotton to the pest attack and damage done to paddy in the recent rain and hailstorm.“Prior to a dharna in Bathinda, farmers from various districts staged a round-the-clock agitation for 15 days at Badal village in Muktsar. But the government has not taken any step to grant financial assistance,” said Jethuke.Owing to the farmer agitation, public dealing at the secretariat was hit as the officials, including the inspector general of police, deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of police, were unable to step inside their offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-attack-bku-ugrahan-to-oppose-cong-leaders-in-villages-for-not-announcing-relief-101635534654474.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE topper gangrape: Three accused get 20-year jail||A trial court in Haryana’s Narnaul town on Friday pronounced 20-year jail term to three main accused in the CBSE topper gangrape case.A day earlier, special court for crime against women additional district and sessions judge Mona Singh had held three main accused – Pankaj, Nishu and Manish – guilty under Sections 328 (forcibly administering intoxicating substances), 365 (kidnapping) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and acquitted five others in the case.Pronouncing the sentence, judge Mona Singh sentenced the three main accused to 20-year jail term, besides imposing a fine of ₹20,000 each on them. She has also directed the district legal services authority (DLSA) to compensate the victim with ₹5 lakh.The incident took place on September 12, 2018, when the then 18-year-old CBSE topper on her way to a coaching centre in Mahendragarh district was abducted and raped.A chargesheet was filed against eight accused with Pankaj, Nishu and Manish being named as the main accused, while Deen Dayal, Naveen, Dr Sanjeev, Manjit and Abhishek faced other charges.On Thursday, after hearing arguments of both sides, the additional district and sessions judge had convicted accused Pankaj, Nishu and Manish, who were booked under Sections 328, 365 and 376 of the IPC. The judge had acquitted the five others who were booked under Sections 202, 118 and 216 of the IPC.Ex-army man from victim’s village convictedThe gangrape made headlines in 2018 after the police had booked eight people, including an army man. Police said the three accused had intercepted the girl, who was a state-level kabbadi player when she was on her way to a coaching centre from her native village in Rewari district. She was taken to a field, where the accused’s accomplices joined them.In her statement, the victim had said that Pankaj, who was then in the army and whom she knew, and Manish, both residents of her village, met her near Kosli bus stand in Mahendragarh district when she was going to attend her coaching class.They offered her a glass of water after drinking which she fell unconscious. The duo along with Nishu took her in a car to a well in a nearby field and gave her another drink. They raped her there, she had told police.Victim’s family alleges threat from accusedThe accused were arrested four days later. The rape survivor’s family alleged that five accused out on bail and now acquitted used to send threats to them.A senior police official, who was part of the special investigation team, said the team had recorded statements of 23 people in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-topper-gangrape-three-accused-get-20-year-jail-101635534474410.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Ex-SSP seeks probe into injuries suffered by cops||Former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma, who is an accused in the 2015 police firing case, asked the court to issue directions to Punjab Police to conduct further investigation with regard to the injuries suffered by the cops as well as damage to the public property during the Behbal Kalan firing incident of October 14, 2015. Sharma has been granted interim bail on health grounds in the case. Sharma filed an application in the court of additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi on Friday. The court has issued a notice to the state to file a reply on the next hearing on November 12. A list of eight police officers along with their medico-legal reports (MLRs) was submitted by Sharma claiming that they received injuries during the incident at Behbal Kalan. “The matter pertaining to injuries to the police officials as well as damage to public property is still unanswered. Even the probe commissions and Punjab police teams have no answer in this regard. Only one side of the case has been investigated by police teams, which is unfair,” he added. In his petition, the former SSP claimed that protestors started pelting the police party with stones and also firing on cops with intent to kill them. “Many shots were fired from amongst protesters and police was also attacked with sharp-edged weapons,” it reads. However, the special investigation team (SIT) probing 2015 police firing cases has claimed in the chargesheets that police opened fire on peaceful protesters and the former Moga SSP conspired with other police officers, including former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal to cover up facts relating to the firing, in which two Sikhs protesting over sacrilege incidents were killed at Behbal Kalan. The court also heard arguments on an application filed by Sharma challenging appointment of senior advocate RS Bains as special public prosecutor. However, the matter was adjourned after the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed Bains’ appearance in the trial court till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-ex-ssp-seeks-probe-into-injuries-suffered-by-cops-101635534354495.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||18+youths may use voter helpline app to get voting right||Agra Youngsters who complete 18 years of age by January 1, 2022 can become new voters through the voter helpline app of the Election Commission. One can check one’s name in the voter list and can apply too on this app. To have more representation in voters list, a campaign will be started in Aligarh district in November. Aligarh district magistrate Selva Kumari J, who is also district election officer, informed about online facilities made available by the Election Commission ahead of the state assembly elections to be held in Uttar Pradesh in 2022. “In view of the forthcoming state assembly elections in UP, a month-long special programme would be conducted from November 1 to 30. The voter list would be published on November 1 and voters can check their names on voter helpline app,” she said. “If a voters comes across anomalies in his particulars, he can fill form 6 and 7 for rectification online. It is an opportunity for those attaining the age of 18 by January 1, 2022 to be part of voter list and become first time voter by applying online” she said. Special booth level camps would be organized on November 7, 13 , 21 and 27, she said. Deputy election officer, Aligarh, Rakesh Kumar Patel urged more and more youths to join as voters. One can lodge election related complaint on toll free number 1950 which is a number monitored by Election Commission itself, he stated. Patel informed that election results would also be available on this voter helpline app and one could download it from the website of the Election Commission or Google Play Store. On Friday, a seminar was organized at DS Bal Vidya Mandir in Aligarh and features of online app of the Election Commission were illustrated. An arts competition was organized in Aligarh on Friday for enhancing public awareness about voters right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/18youths-may-use-voter-helpline-app-to-get-voting-right-101635534294375.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four held with 17kg opium, pistol, ₹1 lakh drug money in Amritsar||The counter intelligence wing of Punjab Police has busted an inter-state gang involved in opium smuggling with the arrest of four of its members during a barricading on Ram Tirath Road in Amritsar.The police have recovered 17kg of opium, a .32-bore pistol and ₹1.1 lakh drug money from the possession of the accused. Police said the accused were travelling in a Hyundai Verna car (B02-EB-3171) and were intercepted following a tip-off. The accused were smuggling the opium from Jharkhand to Punjab, they added.The arrested men have been identified as Jobandeep Singh of Wadala area, Sukhjinder Singh of Chainpur village, and Ranjit Singh and Jaspal Singh of Bhittewad village in Amritsar.A spokesperson of the counter intelligence said during the preliminary investigations, it has come to light that Jobandeep was earlier involved in a case pertaining to the recovery of 7kg of opium, which was registered at the Beas police station. It has been revealed that the accused came in touch with Jharkhand-based suppliers through their contact, presently lodged in Kapurthala jail. It has been also learnt that the Jharkhand-based party is a leading supplier of opium in different parts of Punjab.“Investigations are being carried out to unearth the whole network of drug suppliers, dealers and their buyers. Efforts are being made to identify the procurement and supply chain across different states. The accused will be produced before a court for police remand in due course,” said the police. A case under Sections 18, 25, 29 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the state special operation cell police station in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-held-with-17kg-opium-pistol-rs-1-lakh-drug-money-in-amritsar-101635534176421.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||‘Provocative’: JNU cancels Kashmir webinar after ABVP, teachers’ body objects||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University on Friday night cancelled an online webinar on the situation in Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 amid protests by a section of teachers and students.“As soon as it came to our notice that an online webinar titled “Gendered Resistance and Fresh Challenges in Post-2019 Kashmir” was going to be organised at 8.30pm today by Centre for Women Studies, JNU, the JNU administration immediately instructed the faculty member organising the event to cancel it,” JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said in a statement issued late Friday night.The statement quoted from the notice for the webinar posted by the faculty member, which says, “This talk will draw and build upon the ethnography of… gendered resistance to Indian occupation in Kashmir.”“This is a highly objectionable and provocative subject, which questions the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. JNU cannot be a platform to this kind of very questionable webinars. The matter is being inquired into,” the university vice-chancellor said.Kumar also underlined that the faculty member did not seek the permission of the administration before planning such an event.A webinar in JNU declares "Indian occupation in Kashmir". JNUTF strongly opposes to such anti national stand taken by the Centre of Women's Studies. JNU must take action against those involved in organizing it. @narendramodi @AmitShah @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @DelhiPolice pic.twitter.com/LYLXLDcmvVThe university action came hours after a section of JNU teachers and students under the banner of JNU Teacher’s Forum objected to the event.“A webinar in JNU declares “Indian occupation in Kashmir”. JNUTF strongly opposes such anti-national stand taken by the Centre of Women’s Studies. JNU must take action against those involved in organizing it,” JNUTF said in a statement four hours before the administration announced the cancellation.
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Moga sacrilege: Court vacates stay on trial against 5 dera men||The court of additional district and sessions judge, Moga, on Friday vacated stay on trial proceedings against five Dera Sacha Sauda followers in a sacrilege case of Malke village in the district. Now, the proceedings of trial will commence against the dera followers after a gap of over six months. The local court has already framed charges against them. On November 4, 2015, torn pages of bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib were found scattered on the streets of Malke village, triggering statewide protests. The police had registered a case under Sections 295A and 295 of the IPC against unidentified persons at the Samalsar police station. On March 31, the court of additional district and sessions judge had ordered a stay on the proceedings of the trial court after the accused filed a revision petition demanding comparing of their fingerprints with that on torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib. The accused were identified as Prithi Singh, member of the dera state committee and a resident of Baghapurana, Mithu Singh and Ramandeep Singh, both residents of Malke village, Satnam Singh of Baghapurana and Davinder Singh of Hariye Wala. On October 29, 2018, the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police led by deputy inspector general (DIG), Ludhiana range, Ranbir Singh Khatra, had arrested Pirthi, Mithu and Ramandeep while Satnam and Davinder were arrested on December 1, 2018. A court of judicial magistrate on July 31, 2019, had framed charges under Sections 295A (intended to outrage religious feelings) and 295 (intent to insult the religion) against the five accused. Special public prosecutor for the sacrilege case of Malke village Sukhdev Singh said: “The court of additional district and sessions judge has vacated the stay on trial against five dera followers. The court has also dismissed the revision petition of the dera followers in which they have sought comparison of their fingerprints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-moga-sacrilege-court-vacates-stay-on-trial-against-5-dera-men-101635534054350.html
30-10-2021||Gurugram||35 held for attempts to thwart namaz in Gurugram; being harassed, say devotees||At least 35 people associated with different Hindu groups were detained by Gurugram police for trying to disrupt namaz by Muslim devotees in Sector 12A on Friday afternoon. More than 500 officers were deployed at five designated namaz sites to ensure law and order. No violence was reported and prayers were offered peacefully, police said.Fellow members of the groups sat on protest around 7pm at the deputy commissioner’s office against the detention.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, “Directions were earlier issued that anyone found shouting religious slogans or trying to disrupt namaz would be taken to the nearest police station. Police teams had been deployed since early morning at all five sites to check any unlawful activity and crime teams were deployed in plain clothes,” he said.Units of right wing organisations have been protesting against offering namaz in the open since September. Following a memorandum submitted to the administration by a consortium of Hindu groups on October 26, police were deployed again this week.The right-wing activists started gathering at the Sector 12A crossing and started protesting before people started offering prayers.They raised religious slogans and were seen holding up placards that asked the administration to take action against those offering prayers in the open.A group of people led by Kulbhusban Bharadwaj, a member of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, a consortium of 22 local units of right wing organisations, assembled at the crossing but before they could move towards the namaz site police caught hold of them and forced them to board a police bus and drove them away. After half an hour another group of people, mainly women residents of the area, assembled outside a medical shop at the crossing and started shouting slogans; the cops picked them up too and took them to the police station.Gurugram police had deployed more than 500 cops from all police stations, crime units, rapid action force (RAF) and other intelligence teams. Police barricaded the namaz area from all four sides to ensure no security or law-and-order problem arose, and all possible precautions were taken as the Hindu groups had threatened that they would not let the Muslims offer prayers.Prayers in sectors 47, 14, 56, DLF Phase 3, and other areas were peaceful, police said.Police said the residents of Sector 47 and other areas did not enter the prayer grounds and no one objected anywhere except in Sector 12A.Rao said a fringe group started staging protests earlier this year which intensified in September at a site in Sector 47. “Residents and locals joined the protest, chanting Hindu prayers at the time of namaz on consecutive Fridays over the past few weeks,” he said.Two memorandums were given by different groups to the district administration in the last few days demanding a complete ban on namaz in the open area and they have been threatening to not allow prayers in places other than mosques and Idgahs.At present, Muslims offer namaz at 37 different places on government land, identified by the district administration.The Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti had earlier carried out protests in May 2018. After that, the administration discussed the issue with both communities and designated 37 sites in the city for namaz.While being taken in the police bus on Friday, the protesters shouted slogans against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and vowed to return once out of custody. “Police can arrest us, beat us but cannot keep us from protesting. We will return next Friday and until the open namaz is stopped, we will not stay quiet. It’s an open challenge and we will make sure no government land is used for open prayers. The government is providing protection to those encroaching on government land and we are being punished for taking steps,” said Bharadwaj.Ramesh Kumar, a Samiti member who has been a part of the protests, said, “The police are not ready to listen to us... This will lead to bigger issues and will take an ugly turn, resulting in violence.”Ankita Choudhary, sub-divisional magistrate of Gurugram who was deployed at the Sector 12A site, said some people assembled in the area and they were requested by police and the administration to not cause any disruption but they did not listen and started shouting slogans. “They were taken into preventive custody to maintain law and order and the site was cleared so people could offer prayers,” she said.Members of the Muslim community said they were being harassed by the protesters and they were being targeted for no reason. They demanded designated land so that they could set up mosques, after which they would not have to offer prayers in the open.Altaf Ahmad of the Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch said right wing groups have been making false allegations that Muslims offering namaz are outsiders. “All the people who come here to offer namaz are locals, why will anyone from other cities, districts or states come to Gurugram to offer namaz? We are being targeted unnecessarily and Hindu groups want to give it a communal angle and are provoking our men,” he said.Haji Shehzad Khan, chairman of the Muslim Ekta Manch, said if given space for a mosque they would not pray in the open. “Just because people are creating a ruckus, we should move to another spot is no justice to us. People offer namaz near their workplace and it’s a break for them, why should they travel to remember God? Spreading hate and lies, shouting slogans against Muslims and disrupting Friday namaz has become a focal point for right wing groups in Gurugram,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/35-held-for-attempts-to-thwart-namaz-in-gurugram-being-harassed-say-devotees-101635533934782.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Recover ₹23 crore for GIMS repair from officials, say activists||During a meeting with Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari on Friday, activists demanded that ₹23 crore required to reconstruct/modify the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) building in Kasna be recovered from officials of the Greater Noida authority for their alleged negligence with regard to the faulty design of the building. The move comes after concerns were raised about the building’s structure which has “major design faults”, which has raised safety concerns, said activists. “Officials of the Greater Noida authority, who were handling construction of the GIMS building, and the authority’s main administrative office should pay the amount needed to reconstruct/modify the unsafe basement structure, as they did not do their duties properly. The government must file an FIR against the officials involved in this. The building structure is unsafe according to the government report and the loss caused should be recovered from the officials responsible for it,” said Praveen Bharatiya, founder president of NGO Corruption Free India. Bharatiya, and another member Deepak Sharma went to Lucknow and raised the matter with Tiwari on Friday. “The chief secretary has assured that appropriate action will be taken in this matter without failure, or we will meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and approach a court if needed,” said Bharatiya.He earlier complained against the officials in the matter, following which the chief secretary inspected the hospital building and directed action.“Waterlogging and seepage is weakening the foundation of the building. But nothing has happened in this regard We want to know why no action has been taken so far,” said Alok Nagar, another activist. The foundation of GIMS was laid on the May 13, 2008 by then UP chief minister Mayawati and the hospital was named as Manyawar Kashiram Multi-Specialty Hospital. The state assembly passed the bill on December 4, 2012, and proposed to rename the institution as Medical University and Allied Hospital. The building was then constructed as per the university norms. On April 2, 2013, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav inaugurated the hospital from Lucknow to start the services of the out-patient department. Emergency services in the hospital commenced from August 15, 2014. On February 15, 2016, the institution was rechristened as the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) by the Yogi Adityanath government. It handled Covid-19 patients quite well during last two years.The chief secretary did not take respond to calls seeking a response on this matter. “ ₹23 crore is needed to improve the faulty design of the building. We will soon start work after hiring an agency. We have taken action against the firm for faulty design,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of the Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-recover-23-crore-for-gims-repair-from-officials-say-activists-101635533575384.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police constable sacked for social media posts on farmer protests||A Delhi Police constable was dismissed from the force on Wednesday for allegedly using social media to criticise the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest, police officers in the know of the matter said on Friday. For nearly 11 months, different farmer groups from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country have been protesting at Delhi’s three borders points of Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu, against the three contentious farm laws passed last year. The constable, who was posted at the Sabzi Mandi police station in north Delhi, allegedly tagged Central government ministers and the Prime Minister in his posts and allegedly criticised them for their handling of the protest. Delhi police officers, privy to the details of the dismissal, said he was dismissed by police commissioner Rakesh Asthana under Article 311(2) (B) of the Constitution. According to that article, the authority (police commissioner in this case) is empowered to dismiss or remove a person or reduce him/her in rank for some specified reason, which has to be recorded in writing by the authority. The Delhi Police comes under the ministry of home affairs(MHA). The officers said the constable used derogatory language against Central government ministers. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said they followed “due procedure”. “After following due procedure of law, the constable has been dismissed under article 311(2) B of the Constitution of India,” he said.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said in the present case, the police headquarters received a complaint on October 7 from the special branch about the constable, who was regularly posting his views on social media and tagging the Prime Minister and other Central government ministers. The special branch is the police’s internal intelligence unit. “ An inquiry was conducted against the constable for posting such content. He was active for the last one or two months. His dismissal order reads that he had indulged in derogatory and inciting language against Central government and high dignitaries,” said the officer quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-constable-sacked-for-social-media-posts-on-farmer-protests-101635533335613.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: No seating cap at movie halls, 200 allowed at weddings and funerals||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday allowed cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes to operate at full seating capacity, and also increased the number of people allowed at weddings and funerals from 100 to 200.The relaxations will come into effect from the intervening night of October 31 and November 1 and will be valid till November 15-16 or until further DDMA orders, said an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev.The order also allowed meetings and conferences in banquet halls in the city. So far, only marriages and exhibitions were allowed there.Cinemas, theatres, multiplexes in the city were closed with imposition of lockdown in April amid a raging second wave of Covid, and was subsequently reopened at 50% seating capacity in the last week of July.The DDMA order on Friday stated that owners of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will be responsible for strict adherence to the standard operating protocol (SOP) and official guidelines, as well as ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour at the premises. “In case any violation is found, strict penal, criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant, bar, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes,” said the order.Restaurants and bars will continue to function at 50% seating capacity.As for funeral and marriage related gatherings, the DDMA has allowed such functions with a ceiling of 200 persons. During the second wave of Covid-19 in April-May, funeral gatherings were scaled down to 20 persons and weddings were allowed with up to 50 persons. Gradually, with the improvement in Covid-19 situation, 100 persons were allowed in both the gatherings.From November 1, DDMA has allowed increasing it to 200 people.The order also confirmed that schools can resume for all classes from November 1.The DDMA order maintained that all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural and religious gatherings will remain prohibited. However, festival related gatherings will be allowed as per a previous order of DDMA issued on September 30.Delhi Metro and public transport buses will ply with full seating capacity but no standing passengers will be allowed, stated the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiseating-cap-lifted-in-cinema-halls-weddings-can-have-up-to-200-guests-101635533280212.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Robbers make off with cash from CR Park ATM after holding guard hostage||Armed men allegedly assaulted the security guard of an ATM kiosk in south Delhi and held him hostage for more than an hour while they used gas cutters to break open the ATM tray and flee with the cash on Friday morning, the police said.The ATM is located in the Masjid Moth Phase 2 market on Outer Ring Road, metres before the Chirag Delhi crossing.A case has been registered but police are yet to make an arrest till late evening. The ATM belonged to a leading public bank and its officials are yet to ascertain the amount of cash that was stolen, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaikar said the police control room received a distress call from a local who alerted them about the robbery around 6am.“The caller told us that there were about three to four persons who had arrived there in a car. The police rushed to the spot and the security guard told the officers that the robbers, carrying a pistol and knife, entered the ATM kiosk and broke into machine with the help of a gas cutter before fleeing with the cash. Bank officials are yet to ascertain the cash that was in the tray,” Jaikar said.The officer a robbery case has been registered at the CR Park police station.Investigating officials said the robbers held the guard hostage for at least an hour, while they cut into the cash tray below the ATM screen.Police said that preliminary investigation has revealed that the three men entered the kiosk around 4am.Police are examining CCTV camera footage from the market to identify the suspects.The robbers striking an ATM in the heart of south Delhi, on an arterial stretch, has prompted the Delhi Police to constitute several teams to arrest the robbers. Although there have been cases of ATM thefts and uprooting of machines in the past, most of these were reported from the outskirts of the city, police said.In the past two years, police have arrested over a dozen criminal gangs, mainly from the Mewat region of Haryana, for allegedly uprooting ATMs using SUVs and chains.Police investigations have revealed that the same gangs uprooted machines not just from Delhi but also from states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat.In Delhi, the gangs mostly targeted machines in poorly lit markets of outer Delhi, the police said, adding that they are checking to see if the present case is also the handiwork of criminal gangs from Mewat or a gang or gangs that have ties with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-robbers-make-off-with-cash-from-cr-park-atm-after-holding-guard-hostage-101635533111936.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Comply with order banning crackers: Supreme Court tells states, UTs||The Supreme Court on Friday told states and Union territories to strictly comply with its order prohibiting the sale, manufacture or use of banned firecrackers ahead of Diwali and warned that the chief secretaries, police commissioners, police district superintendents and station house officers will be personally liable in the event of violations.“No authority can permit the violation of the directions issued by this Court and permit banned firecrackers under the guise of celebration,” said a bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna. The Court clarified, however, that there is no blanket firecracker ban, because green crackers can be used during the festival.To be sure, despite this order, the use of firecrackers of all types (including the ‘green’ ones) will remain banned in Delhi and Odisha, where there is a total ban on the sale, storage or use of any kind of crackers.In Delhi, the ban is effective till January 1 next year in view of the worsening air pollution, and Odisha has imposed the ban in the interest of protecting general public health.Uttar Pradesh on Friday said it will permit the use of green crackers during Diwali for two hours, in areas where air pollution levels are ‘moderate’ or better.The Court’s order came on an application moved by a minor, Arjun Gopal, and two others. The case was argued by the minor’s father, senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan.The application cited a report by NGO Awaz Foundation, which tested “green crackers” and found them to contain the chemicals banned by the Court orders of September 2017 and October 2018. The report also found “fake QR codes” printed on the boxes of these crackers.The Court earlier prohibited the use of barium, lithium, arsenic, antimony, lead, mercury in firecrackers owing to its adverse impact on human lungs and eyes. It had also banned the use of joined firecrackers (laaris) owing to the huge noise, air and solid waste problem.The bench termed the violation of its directions as “unfortunate”.“It prima facie appears that the implementing agencies of the concerned states either lack the desire to implement the directions issued by this Court or they close their eyes for whatever reasons.”On October 23, 2018, the Court prohibited barium salts in manufacture of firecrackers but the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which undertook an investigation against fireworks manufacturers, recently submitted a report to the Court finding barium and other banned chemicals in firecrackers put on sale.“Celebration cannot be at the cost of the other’s health. Under the guise of celebration, nobody can be permitted to infringe the right to health of the others, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and nobody can be permitted to play with the life of the others, more particularly the senior citizens and the children,” the bench said,To ensure strict compliance, the bench said, “Any lapse on the part of the state governments/state agencies and Union territories shall be viewed very seriously and if it is found that any banned firecrackers are manufactured, sold and used in any particular area, the chief secretary of the concerned state(s), the secretary (home) of the concerned state(s) and the commissioner of police of the concerned area, district superintendent of police of the concerned area and the SHO/police officer in-charge of the concerned police station shall be held personally liable.”In its October 2018 order, the top court fixed the responsibility on district magistrates and police SHOs to ensure compliance of its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-asks-states-uts-to-comply-with-order-prohibiting-banned-crackers-101635533110895.html
30-10-2021||Dehradun||Man stabs daughter to death for marrying against his wish, son-in-law hurt||Angered by his daughter’s decision to marry for love, a man, along with his son, attacked his daughter and son-in-law with a sharp-edged weapon in Kathgodam area of Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Friday evening. The daughter died on spot in the attack while the son-in-law was injured and has been admitted to a government hospital in a critical condition, said police. Jagdish Chandra, superintendent of police (city) Haldwani said, “On Friday evening, a father, along with his son, attacked his daughter and son-in-law in Kathgodam area. The girl died on the spot while son-in-law has been injured in the incident.” Chandra said Salman, 24, resident of Kathgodam had an affair with Kainaat, 21, from the same neighbourhood. “Both got married one and a half months ago without informing their family members. On this, the families of both the boy and the girl were accusing each other. Once there was a fight in both the families wherein the boy’s mother got hurt. Police registered an FIR in the matter. Later, the two sides reached a consensus. After this, Salman started living in rented accommodation in the same locality,” he said. Chandra said on Friday evening, Salman and Kainaat were standing outside their rented accommodation. “Suddenly Kainat’s father Saleem and her brother Alam reached the spot with sharp-edged weapons. Before the newlyweds could understand anything, the father-son duo attacked them. The father stabbed his daughter repeatedly with a knife. At the same time, his son attacked his brother-in-law with blows. Hearing their screams, when the boy’s father and brother rushed to the spot, the girl’s father and brother fled the spot.” “The boy’s family members took him to the hospital by a tempo. Meanwhile, finding the girl alone, her father and brother came back and hit her on the neck. Due to this, the girl died on the spot,” the SP said. After getting information about the incident, the police force rushed to the spot. The girl’s body was taken into possession and sent for the post-mortem. Both the accused are absconding. The police have registered a case against the father-son duo on the complaint of the boy’s mother, said Chandra. He said they have registered a case against both the accused under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/man-stabs-daughter-to-death-for-marrying-against-his-wish-son-in-law-hurt-101635533108347.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Diwali melas bring festive cheer in Delhi-NCR||The festival of lights remains incomplete without shopping and bingeing. And what better place to do both that than at some of the popular Diwali melas in town! In the run up to the festival, and due to very few cases of Covid-19, Diwali melas have returned to Delhi-NCR in their physical form. Here are the deets on where and how you can plan to visit them and get the #FestiveVibes:Blind School Diwali MelaOne of the most awaited Diwali melas in the city, this spot is your one-stop-shop for everything related to Diwali. Be it candles, diyas, planters or anything else you need to adorn your place, this bazaar has it all. This mela had to shift online last year, due to the pandemic situation. But this year, the organisers are hosting a physical event while maintaining all Covid-19 protocols. “We have a total of 69 stalls this year. We’ll have regular stalls plus some stalls for accessories, clothes, as well as other household artefacts. We’ve made it a point to not have any food stalls this year,” says Tejender Singh Bisht from Blind Relief Association.Where: Blind School Relief Association, Lal Bahadur Shastri MargWhen: October 28 to November 1Timing: 10am to 8pmFestival Of LightsWith almost 165 stalls, this Diwali mela is a mix of all things festive. “From home decor, accessories, fashion, jewellery, textile to handmade pieces in wood and folk art, we have quite a wide range of options. We also have healthy diet snacks, dry fruits from Kashmir and Afghanistan, which can be used instead of sweets as a healthier alternative to gift this Diwali,” says Sana Masroor, project coordinator, Dastkar.Where: Nature Bazaar, Andheria Modh, Chhattarpur On till: October 28 Timing: 11am to 7pmThe Sunday Market Who doesn’t like a lazy Sunday? And if Diwali is approaching then keeping in mind the festive season, this Sunday bazaar is for everyone who wants to enjoy the various activities such as pottery, kite making, toy making as well as some art and cultural activities. There will be products of emerging artists and handcrafted torans, diyas, ghee candles alongside scented candles, and trays. Besides, there will also be books, bangles, saris and shawls, to shop for. Keeping Covid-19 restrictions in mind, there will be only 23 stalls.Where: Bikaner House, Pandara Road When: October 31Timing: 11am to 6pmGrand Diwali MelaWith more than 100 stalls, this is truly one grand Diwali mela, which will have everything from apparel and jewellery to home furnishings and décor to give a complete makeover to your house. “We’ve also kept other Diwali related things like diyas as well as options for Diwali gifts,” says Swati Bhasin, organiser, adding, “We are making sure that everyone follows Covid-19 protocols and we’re regularly sanitising the venue.”Where: Apparel House, Sector 44, GurugramWhen: October 30 to November 1Timing: 11am to 8pm The Earth Collective Organic — Natural Lifestyle Market If you are on the look out for Diwali gifts that are thoughtful, then this might be the place for you! “This market is a special edit for conscious gifting, and has been organised with the intention of avoiding the last minute frenetic purchasing that people often end up doing. We will have a host of weavers, potters, and also those displaying options in beauty and home care. Alongside there will be jewellery, food and beverage options, too. In fact, there are going to be some amazing brunch options from our star home cooks,” says Meenu Nageshwaran, organiser.Where: Sunder Nursery, NizamuddinWhen: October 30- 31Timing: 8am to 2pmNatural Farmers Festive MarketIf you believe in being true to mother Nature and keep looking out for 100% organic fruits, dry fruits or cosmetics, then head to this farmers’ market that will offer you a variety of options to choose from. “We do these markets regularly, but this one coming up has a Diwali twist! We have lots of diyas and other chatpata khana to give a festive feel. All the items are from farmers of Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. We wanted to encourage people to eat and gift natural and healthy stuff this Diwali, so that’s how the idea of this market was developed. Like we’ll have two stalls just to showcase organic honey,” says Gauri Sarin, organiser.Where: The Grand Arch, Sector 58, Gurugram When: October 30Timing: 4pm to 8pmMela in the Covid era:On ground melas are returning to the Capital this year with a lot of precautions and Covid-19 protocols, which the organisers are following and encouraging the visitors to note: - All vendors will be vaccinated.- Mandatory temperature checks at the entrance.- Proper checking of face masks at the entry. Some melas will also provide masks for those who are caught not wearing them.- Complete sanitisation of the venue. Some organisers have also provided sanitisers to shopkeepers to ensure customers sanitise their hands while visiting the stalls.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/diwali-melas-bring-festive-cheer-in-delhincr-101635533041654.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Organisers to arrange ponds for Chhath festivities, Yamuna out of bounds||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday prohibited Chhath Puja celebrations along the banks of river Yamuna and said all such festivities will be allowed only at designated sites in the national capital.Chhath, celebrated after Diwali by people belonging to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, involves the offering of prayers to the sun god by fasting women, while standing in knee-deep water. Since these ritualistic prayers are not allowed on the banks of the Yamuna this year, communities will arrange ponds for devotees, after obtaining due permission from the district magistrate concerned.“The celebration of Chhath Puja during the month of November shall be allowed only at designated sites outside containment zones with requisite permission from the district magistrate. No site shall be designated on the bank of river Yamuna,” read the DDMA order, issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, on Friday.The authority further said designated sites shall be identified and managed by the respective district magistrates in coordination with the agencies concerned. The DDMA order also said at designated sites, the puja material offered by devotees should be collected by the municipal authorities and other relevant agencies for immediate and proper disposal in a scientific manner. “All devotees shall be strictly prohibited from throwing puja material like food grain, oil etc into river Yamuna. It shall be ensured that no such material is permitted to join the main stream of river at any point,” the DDMA order said.It also asked all organisers of Chhath Puja to submit an undertaking to the district magistrate, agreeing to strictly adhere to the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal and the Yamuna monitoring committee.Wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, using hand sanitisers will be mandatory for all devotees at all times, the DDMA said, adding that both devotees and organisers will have to follow guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare in October last year.Earlier, in an order dated September 30, the DDMA had prohibited Chhath celebrations in public places in view of the threat posed by Covid-19.But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged protests across the city and also outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding that Chhath celebrations be allowed.Later, on October 14, Kejriwal wrote to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal requesting him to allow Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi, following which the DDMA, earlier this week, gave its nod for festivities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/organisers-to-arrange-ponds-for-chhath-festivities-in-delhi-yamuna-out-of-bounds-101635533035566.html
30-10-2021||Noida||With AQI at 321, Ghaziabad becomes ‘most polluted city’ for 2nd time in a month||Ghaziabad on Friday was listed as the “most polluted city” across the country with the air quality index (AQI) recorded at 321 under the ‘very poor’ category, according to the daily bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The city was listed as the “most polluted city” for the first time on October 16, following the implementation of the graded response action plan (Grap) on October 15 this year. The AQI figures released by the CPCB on Friday also showed that neighbouring Greater Noida and Noida recorded respective AQIs at 284 and 282 under the ‘poor’ category.It also revealed that all the four monitoring stations at Indirapuram, Loni, Sanjay Nagar and Vasundhara recorded the primary pollutants in the district at PM2.5. “The high levels of pollutants -- PM2.5 -- in the city indicate a high volume of vehicular pollution. Stubble burning also has a contribution of 20%, coupled with moderate wind speed which results in lesser dispersal of pollutants. All these factors have affected the AQI in the city,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh pollution control board.“According to the Grap protocols, we will now enforce steps to be taken to prevent the air quality being in the ‘very poor’ category. As directed by the CPCB, there is a ban on DG sets, and implementing agencies have been instructed to take care of it,” Sharma added.An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Stubble burning had a contribution of 20% to the existing situation, with fire counts at 1,112, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar).“As forecasted by the Safar, the AQI in the city is in ‘very poor’ category and is likely to deteriorate further during the daytime, until early Saturday. It is likely to improve marginally from Saturday evening, but will remain in the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category due to slightly improved ventilation coefficient,” said a Safar statement.It also said that the wind direction and speed in the city is favourable for transportation of stubble burning towards Delhi. Environmentalists said that the AQI has shown a “deteriorating” trend even before Diwali, which will be celebrated on November 4 this year.“The situation will worsen as the winter sets in. High levels of PM2.5 indicate high levels of vehicular emission. There is a heavy rush and movement of vehicles during the festival time, and it must be regulated with effective enforcement. Enforcement agencies concerned are rather lax in this context and are unable to control the unmanageable vehicle on roads,” said Akash Vashistha, a city-based environmentalist and lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-aqi-at-321-ghaziabad-becomes-most-polluted-city-for-2nd-time-in-a-month-101635532975570.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Canada-based gangster Landa issues threats to cops in FB post||TARN TARANDays after being booked for demanding ransom and opening fire at a fuel station in Chohla Sahib, Canada-based gangster Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, has reportedly threatened Punjab cops of dire consequences through a Facebook post.Landa, a resident of Harike in Tarn Taran, is also wanted in the Patti double murder case in which Akali worker Amandeep Singh, alias Fauji, and his aide Prabhjit Singh were gunned down allegedly by notorious gangster Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon. The killing was allegedly hatched by Landa, who fled to Canada in 2017.“Today, I want to say one thing to the policemen: don’t harass (my) family members or relatives. If any man is guilty, shoot him. When I was in India, fake cases were registered after calling me from my home, and now after four years, firing was opened in my house. You don’t register illegal cases and we will not unnecessarily harass anyone. But, if you continue harassing the family members and the relatives, it’s your wish. But, don’t think that your families are safe, whether your children are in foreign countries or in India, we know about everyone. We have four, but we will take forty of yours and the responsibility will be of the police,” the post reads.Landa and one Satnam Singh were booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (Act done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Sections 25-27-54-59 of the Arms Act by the Chohla Sahib police on October 23. The case was registered on the complaint of one Jagjit Singh of Chohla Khurd. He had alleged that Landa had demanded ₹50 lakh ransom before opening fire at his fuel station.After the Patti shootout, Tarn Taran police had started the process to get Landa extradited from Canada. The police had written to the Union government for pressing the Interpol to issue a red-corner notice against Landa. According to the police, Landa had demanded ₹20 lakh ransom from a Patti-based person and Aman Fauji was opposing this. Landa had hired gangster Preet Sekhon to kill Fauji, who was a close friend of Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, political adviser of former Akali Dal minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon.Facing eleven criminal cases, including three of attempt to murder, Landa has been a headache for Punjab Police. He is facing cases under the Arms Act and the NDPS Act in Tarn Taran, Moga and Ferozepur districts, and Chandigarh. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harvinder Singh Virk said, “We are verifying the post and a suitable action will be taken after the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/canadabased-gangster-landa-issues-threats-to-cops-in-fb-post-101635532974358.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Barricades come off at UP Gate site, farmers to decide on future course||Commuters on Friday continued to face traffic snarls on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway even after the Delhi Police started removing heavy barricades from the UP Gate the same day, where farmers have been protesting against the three controversial farm laws since November 2020. Following the development, farmer leaders were non-committal whether they would vacate the roads near the UP Gate or not, and said that their umbrella body -- Samyukta Kisan Morcha -- will take a call on this.The UP Gate protest site has been occupied by the protesting farmers for almost 11 months now, as they have been demanding roll back of the three farm laws since November last year. They have been camping on the lanes of the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway, underpass area of the UP Gate flyover, with their temporary tents being lined up till Noida’s Khora Colony.On October 21, 2021, some farmers had removed a temporary tent below the UP-Gate flyover and claimed that the Delhi police blocked the road and not the farmers. In the next move, the Delhi police started removing heavy barricades using reinforced concrete boulders, iron spikes and barbed wires.In a statement issued on Friday evening, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha reiterated their stand over the blockades and said that the “stand of the farmers is vindicated”. “It is the police who have barricaded and blocked the roads and not the farmers, and this is something that the farmers have explained in the past too. The protesters had traffic movement in the past too, and will continue to do the same. We are talking about the protest site near the Tikri border and the Ghazipur border (UP Gate),” it said.“Police have fortified the morcha sites by placing huge cement boulders, multiple layers of metal barricades, sand trucks, and multiple layers of nails across the roads. In the latest narrative that they are trying to give a spin, partial removal of these barricades is being taken up, ostensibly to impress the Supreme Court of India,” it added.The UP Gate site is one of the several sites, including different borders of Delhi, where the farmers have been camping to protest the farm laws.On October 21 this year, the Supreme Court had said that the farmers have the right to protest, but cannot block roads indefinitely. The court was hearing a petition filed by a Noida resident, who urged the protesters to move away from the roads across the National Capital Region (NCR) as “their agitation takes a toll in daily commuting”.The court had also granted a three-week time period to the farmer unions to file their response, and listed the next date of hearing on December 7 this year.“Ultimately, a solution has to be found. We are not averse to their right to protest even when a legal challenge is pending, but roads cannot be blocked,” the court had said.Amid the scenario, the commuters feel that they are suffering the most as commuting on the DME did not resume yet. “The situation on ground remains as it is at the UP Gate as the road is still not open for commuting as the farmers are camping there. The courts must take a look at this and come to the rescue of the citizens. As a result of the situation at the UP Gate, thousands of commuters travel via Kaushambi, and the local residents are affected due to traffic snarls and pollution. It seems like resumption of commuting via those routes will take more time,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments RWA.The DME stretch comprising the UP Gate sees movement of about 60,000 passenger car units per day, and it is also a key area for diversion of the Ghaziabad-bound traffic to different localities, like Vaishali, Kaushambi, Indirapuram and Sahibabad. “It has been almost 11 months since the commuters are suffering, and there is absolutely no respite for thousands of them who use the UP Gate route. The situation at the UP Gate also shows how easy it is to block the highway for 11 months, and get away so easily. With farmers occupying the area, removal of barricades will not solve the purpose. The highway was built for commuters and it should be opened for the commuters only,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of Federation of Association of Apartment Owners.Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad police has also put up barricades near Indirapuram and Pratap Vihar, and the traffic is diverted to Noida Sector 62. The stretch from Pratap Vihar to the UP Gate is about 10 kilometres and is not open for the commuters. “The barricades have been put up so that the commuters don’t reach the UP Gate where the farmers are camping. It may cause law-and-order problems. Commuting will not resume unless the framers vacate the site. For this, our officials are in touch with the farmer leaders,” said Ramanand Kushawaha, superintendent of police (Ghaziabad traffic police).Farmer leaders said that they were occupying the road as the Delhi police had put up barricades there.“The Samyukta Kisan Morcha will take a call on the removal of barricades by the Delhi police. The dismantling of barricades shows that it was the police who blocked the highway and not the farmers,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP Gate site spokesperson of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Senior Delhi police officials, who reached the UP Gate site on Friday, said that it was their first action since the protest started. “We want that commuting on the highway be resumed. We are in touch with the protesting farmers, and we will request them to ensure that the way for commuters should be opened. We have started removing barricades from there,” Deepandra Pathak, Delhi’s special commissioner of police (law and order) told reporters at the UP Gate on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/barricades-come-off-at-up-gate-site-farmers-to-decide-on-future-course-101635532928955.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Coldest morning so far this season, AQI may worsen in Delhi||Temperatures continued to dip in the region on Friday, as Delhi recorded the season’s lowest minimum at 14 degrees Celsius in the morning, a drop which coincided with a season high farm-fire contribution of 20% percent to the city’s pollution levels, worsening its air quality further.Temperatures are expected to remain in a similar range over the next few days, even as the pollution is likely to worsen by Saturday morning, possibly dropping into the ‘very poor’ zone, agencies forecast.Delhi recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) reading of 283 (poor) on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, with at least 11 monitoring stations hitting the ‘very poor’ category in the evening.The Capital logged an AQI of 268 (also categorised as ‘poor’) on Thursday’s bulletin.
30-10-2021||Delhi||33 DPCC teams to enforce ban on diesel gensets in Delhi||A day after the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) banned the use of diesel generator (DG) sets across Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said 33 teams will soon be making the rounds of Delhi to identify violators and penalise them.Only emergency and essential services have been exempted from the ban and these included health-care facilities (for escalators and elevators), railway stations, airports, interstate bus terminals, the Delhi Metro, sewage treatment plants and national security related activities. Those found using generator sets without permission will be prosecuted under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, a violation of which could warrant a fine of ₹5,000 or a jail term of up to 18 months.DG sets have been banned across the Capital as well as NCR towns, following directions issued by the subcommittee on the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), which on Thursday enforced measures falling under the ”very poor” category of Grap.On Friday, Delhi recorded an air quality index of 283 (poor), according to the CPCB.KS Jayachandran, member secretary, DPCC, said so far, they have not received any request for exemptions from any individual, private company or housing society. “The use of DG sets will have to be shown as ‘essential’ if an exemption is to be granted,” said Jayachandran, adding that 33 teams have been deployed to work on two fronts – construction and demolition waste and to monitor industries which were not using PNG fuel.“Soon, the same teams will monitor the use of DG sets as well. The environment compensation charge imposed on a violator will depend on various factors such as its size, how long it had been violating the norms and what fuel type it uses – kerosene, diesel or petrol,” he said.Professor Mukesh Sharma from IIT Kanpur, who is part of the team that recently signed an agreement with the government to carry out real-time apportionment of pollution sources, said DG sets could contribute up to 2% of the overall emission load.A Delhi power department official said the city will receive uninterrupted electricity supply during winter, reducing the need for DG sets. “...each year DG sets are banned and Delhi faces no problems. This year will be no different,” the official said.Officials from Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam told HT that they were ready to give uninterrupted power to all Gurugram residents.Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the Uttar Pradesh PCB, said he had just received the CPCB order: “We will go through the order and ensure it is enforced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/33-dpcc-teams-formed-to-penalise-violators-of-dg-sets-ban-indelhi-101635532794928.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Heritage look of ghats will add to Ayodhya’s sparkling celebrations||LUCKNOW A 500-Drone aerial show to showcase Lord Ram’s story on the skyline of the temple town, ghats with a heritage look and a laser show will be the highlights of the fifth edition of Deepotsav celebrations organised in Ayodhya by the Yogi Adityanath government this year. Preparations are on in full swing to make the six-day celebrations at Ram Ki Paidi from November 1 a grand affair, said officials. The majestic venue, which will also see a laser show, is being given a heritage look and painted with various features of Ramayan. A company, Mojarto, has been roped in by the state government for the purpose. The Saryu Ghat and Ram Katha Park are also being given a facelift for the Deepotsav celebrations. French artist Chifumi is bringing Ram Katha back to life on the walls near these places. Besides, 500 drones will fly and light up the Ayodhya sky with Ramayan era scenes. “The state government wants the last edition of Deepotsav in Ayodhya on a grand scale. Preparations are underway to the organise the event as per the expectations of the government,” said a senior official of the Ayodhya administration. The Ayodhya administration is pulling out all stops to keep the city clean on the festive occasion. Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay said Saryu Ghat, Ram Ki Paidi, Hanuman Garhi, Kanak Bhawan and the entire Ram Kot area among other parts of the city are being spruced up. BID FOR GUINNESS RECORD Nine lakh diyas will illuminate Ayodhya during Deepotsav on November 3. Of these, 7.51 lakh diyas will be lit at Ram Ki Paidi and the rest at other ghats in the city. The administration will go for a Guinness record by lighting 7.51 lakh diyas at one place - Ram Ki Paidi. A team from the Guinness Book of World Records will be in Ayodhya to judge the event. To create a world record, one earthen diya will have to remain lit for a minimum five minutes. For this, organisers have decided to use 40 millilitre (ml) oil for each earthen diya. The Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Ayodhya, has deployed 200 coordinators for the event. Their task is to make sure that each earthen diya is lit properly. Separate teams of evaluators and supervisors will also be deployed at Ram Ki Paidi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heritage-look-of-ghats-will-add-to-ayodhya-s-sparkling-celebrations-101635532735741.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||5 take oath as Punjab and Haryaya HC additional judges||The five lawyers appointed as additional judges on October 28 took oath of office at the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday.The lawyers include senior advocates Vikas Suri, Jasjit Singh Bedi, son of former high court judge HS Bedi, Vinod Sharma (Bhardwaj), senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain, and Haryana additional advocate general Sandeep Moudgil.Suri and Bhardwaj were practising mainly on civil Side. Jain was appointed senior standing counsel in December 2018, while Bedi is a known criminal lawyer. As of Moudgil, he has been associated with Haryana advocate general’s office for nearly five years. With these appointments, the number of judges in the high court has reached 50. The names of the four lawyers were recommended for elevation on September 1 by the Supreme Court collegium and that of Sandeep Moudgil on September 29. The high court collegium had recommended their names in August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-take-oath-as-punjab-and-haryaya-hc-additional-judges-101635532674391.html
30-10-2021||Noida||NHAI to assess damages on Delhi Meerut expressway before allowing vehicles||Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said on Friday commuting on the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) will be allowed only after they assess the condition of the expressway, which is currently heavily barricaded by the Delhi Police and is occupied by the farmers protesting against the three farm laws. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday night issued a statement, saying that the ‘morcha’ (protest site) will continue and also appealed to farmers to reach UP-Gate. The UP-Gate protest site falls under phase 2 of the DME and connects it with Dasna over a stretch of about 19.8kms. When HT team visited the expressway, it found cracks on the surface at the UP-Gate flyover. Officials of NHAI said they will assess the damage to the roads and also the infrastructure at UP-Gate. “The road will be open to commuters only after we assess the damages and take up road repairs and maintenance work. In the past, we have already apprised the Ghaziabad authorities in writing about the lack of maintenance resulting from the farmers protest at the expressway. The assessment will be taken up once the farmers vacate the roads,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. “There has been damage to electricity cables; there has been no maintenance and inspection of the UP-Gate flyover due to the ongoing protest. During monsoon, the roads were flooded due to blocked drainage system. It has been almost 11 months now that we are facing these issues,” said Garg. Earlier in September, the NHAI had raised concerns about the maintenance issues related to the expressway as a result of the ongoing farmers’ protest. NHAI officials sought urgent intervention from the district authorities and also shot a letter to the Ghaziabad district magistrate and requested that the farmers be removed from the expressway with the help of the police. “We are taking stock of the issues and also assessing the said loss/damage to the DME infrastructure. Suitable steps will be taken up,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate R K Singh. Farmers camping at the UP-Gate protest site have been demanding rollback of the three new farm laws introduced by the Centre since November last year. They also occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway since December and have put up their tents and dais at the site. On Friday, the Delhi police also started removing barricades from the expressway. Officials said other barricades will also be removed. Meanwhile, on Friday night, the BKU issued a statement appealed to farmers to reach the UP-Gate protest site in large numbers to strengthen the agitation.“We appeal to farmers to reach Ghazipur (UP-Gate) site and strengthen the protest. We make it clear that the ‘morcha’ (protest) will continue and there will be no change. The police blocked the road after January 26 and they are trying to correct their mistake. The protest site will continue... There have been conspiracies against the protest and we must be ready to fight these,” said the statement issued by BKU on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nhai-to-assess-damages-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-before-allowing-vehicles-101635532621058.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police starts removing barriers at Ghazipur||The Delhi Police on Friday began removing concrete barriers, concertina wires, and spikes from near the farmer agitation spot in Ghazipur (Delhi-Ghaziabad boder) and also from Tikri (Delhi-Haryana border) where they started the process on Thursday, so that vehicular movement may be restored at both border points that have remained closed for the past 11 months. However, it was not immediately clear when the border will be fully opened.Farmers, mainly from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab, have been camping in protest at the capital’s three border points of Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri since November last year.Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of around 40 farmer groups, said the removal of barricades by the police vindicated their stand that it was the police who blocked the movement of traffic at these key border points, and not farmers. The leaders said they will take a call on the next course of action only on November 6.“Police had fortified the protest sites by placing huge cement boulders, multiple layers of metal barricades, and sand trucks across the roads, apart from fixing spikes on the road. As part of the latest narrative that they are trying to spin, partial removal of these barricades has been taken up, ostensibly to impress the Supreme Court. SKM takes note of these development, and is watching the manoeuvres of the BJP government...,” said a statement issued by the group.On Friday, police said they have removed the barricades from NH-9 and NH-24 and were working with Ghaziabad police to restore traffic movement. DCP (east) Priyanka Kashyap said traffic movement will resume in the coming days. However, even after the removal of concrete barricades, restoring traffic to normal is unlikely as the main stage and several tents set up by farmers are still creating obstructions.“Delhi Police has taken an initiative towards restoring movement on the highway by removing barricades. We are in constant touch with farmers and have requested them to allow vehicular movement. If they try to move towards Delhi, we will deal with the situation as per procedure,” said Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of police (law and order, Zone 1)Farmers said they have allowed the movement of vehicles in the past as well and will continue to do so. Two farmer leaders from the Ghazipur site – Rakesh Tikait and Jagtar Singh Bajwa – said they will now move towards Delhi as the barricades have been lifted.When asked about their comments, a SKM member, requesting anonymity, said the next course of action will be decided at a meeting on November 6.“Farmers had already vacated one carriageway at the three protest sites for vehicular movement. Arrangements are being made to see that the one side is available to all commuters,” the member said.While the police began removing barricades from Tikri on Thursday, they started doing so in Ghazipur only on Friday morning. Farmers at the spot said police used earth movers to tear down concrete barriers, concertina wires, and spikes, all installed after the January 26 violence.The Supreme Court, on October 21, had observed that protesters cannot block public roads indefinitely and “some solution” should be worked out. The matter will be heard again on December 7.On Friday, most farmers in Ghazipur and Tikri said they were waiting for instructions from leaders. Jitender Singh, 32, a farmer at the Ghazipur site, said, “We hope we are able to take our voice to Delhi because that is what we came here for.”Farmer leader Bogh Singh Mansa, who has been leading the agitation in Tikri, said, “Not all barricades have been removed. The police are only facilitating removal of barricades because they want to have something to show the Supreme Court at the next hearing.”Delhi cop sacked for social media postMeanwhile, a Delhi Police constable was dismissed from the force on Wednesday for allegedly using social media to criticise the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest, police officers in the know of the matter said on Friday. The constable, posted at Sabzi Mandi police station, allegedly criticised Union ministers and the Prime Minister in his posts for their handling of the protest.DCP (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said, “After following due procedure of law, the constable has been dismissed under article 311(2) B of the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-start-removing-barricades-from-ghazipur-famers-say-they-stand-vindicated-101635532614382.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||NDMC announces partial rollback of last year’s property tax hike||Following in the footsteps of the south corporation, which partially rolled back its property tax hike last month, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday decided to enact a similar partial rollback of the property tax hike that was enforced last year on the basis of the third municipal valuation committee (MVC) report.A proposal to this effect was cleared by the standing committee on Friday. The tax relief will be applicable to the categories of vacant land, non-residential rented properties, and commercial as well industrial (vacant) land. However, the order specified that tax payers who have already filed their returns will not be refunded.Irked by the clause, trader bodies said honest tax payers, who filed their taxes early, are being harassed. But officials argued that norms under Delhi Municipal Corporation (DMC) Act do not permit a refund in such cases. The rates were increased on August 27, 2020. Jogi Ram Jain, standing committee chairman, said a large number of property tax owners will benefit from the partial roll-back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-civic-body-partially-rolls-back-property-tax-hike-enforced-last-year-101635532556527.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Furniture shop in Greater Noida gutted in fire, none hurt say police||A furniture shop at Site IV area in Greater Noida’s Sector Beta 2 was gutted in fire on Friday morning. Police said no one was injured in the incident. Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector Beta 2 police station, said police team and firefighters reached the spot after receiving information about the incident. “The fire had spread rapidly as there was wood and other combustible material in the shop. Three fire tenders brought the fire under control in two hours,” said Kumar addinfg that primary investigation indicates that a short circuit led to the fire. Meanwhile, in a second case, two people on their way to Palwal from Ghaziabad had a close shave when their car caught fire on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dadri on Friday evening. Pradeep Tripathi, SHO of Dadri police station, said, “On the way, their car got heated and caught fire. The two people evacuated the vehicle on time and escaped safely. A fire tender reached the spot and doused the fire,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/furniture-shop-in-greater-noida-gutted-in-fire-none-hurt-say-police-101635532436348.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Study to make Mumbai railway stations more inclusive for PwDs||Mumbai’s suburban railway stations may soon become disabled-friendly. Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC), a joint venture of the Maharashtra government and the Indian Railways, has begun a technical assistance study on improving universal access for people with disabilities (PwDs). The focus of the study would be on increasing facilities and how to make suburban railway stations more accessible for PwDs.Various amenities, including introducing wheel chair facility on stations, making ramps for wheelchairs at entrances and washrooms, and building platforms with wheelchair access to the ‘handicapped compartment’ of local train stations, are likely to be introduced. MRVC has invited tenders for the study at identified railway stations of Central and Western Railway under the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP)-3A. “Over the years, we have been working on increasing the amenities for PwDs and on making the suburban railway stations disabled-friendly. The study will help us determine what amenities and facilities can be provided,” said a senior MRVC official.Churchgate station had upgraded its amenities in 2019 to become a completely disabled-friendly railway station by using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. The Central and the Western Railways have introduced braille signages inside local train compartments and on suburban stations. On Central Railway, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT), Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Byculla, Wadala and Panvel stations are disabled friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/study-to-make-mumbai-railway-stations-more-inclusive-for-pwds-101635532434710.html
30-10-2021||Chandigarh||Double murder cracked, woman among two held in Patiala village||The district police solved a double murder case with the arrest of two persons, including a woman, from Patiala’s Bosar Kalan village on Friday. Those arrested have been identified as Gurinder Singh, 29, and his woman friend Manjit Kaur, 40, who helped him in procuring a .32-bore pistol used in the crime. On October 4 this year, unidentified miscreant shot dead 32-year-old Varinder Singh of Bosar Kalan village when he was returning home after closing his shop in Patiala.Senior superintendent of police Harcharan Singh Bhullar said during investigation, a special team of the Patiala CIA zeroed in on Gurinder, who developed enmity with Varinder after knowing that his cousin was in a relationship with the latter’s relative. “On October 12 last year, Gurinder shot dead his cousin Harneet Kaur after he knew about her alleged relationship with Varinder’s relative Sehajpreet Singh. The case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC but after committing the crime, Gurinder concocted a story that he had committed suicide by jumping into a canal on October 22. He left a suicide note and his vehicle and other belongings were recovered from near the canal,” the SSP said. He added that Gurinder’s family considered him dead. “Gurinder fled and stayed in Madhya Pradesh. He visited Patiala on a few occasions to meet his female friend Manjit Kaur,” said CIA in-charge Shaminder Singh.During interrogation, the accused confessed that he was planning to kill another person named Laddi of same village over old rivalry. “We have recovered four countrymade pistols from Gurinder’s possession,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/double-murder-cracked-woman-among-two-held-in-patiala-village-101635532374512.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: South MCD launches amnesty property tax scheme for unauthorised colonies||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) rolled out an amnesty scheme on Friday, under which owners of residential properties in unauthorised colonies can pay a year’s property tax and owners of non-residential properties in unauthorised colonies can pay three years’ property tax in lieu of their previous property dues.“Property tax prior to 2021-2022 will be waived for owners of residential properties if they pay tax for the financial year 2021-2022. Similarly, property tax prior to 2019-2020 will be waived for owners of non-residential properties if they pay tax for three financial years (2019-2020, 2020-2021 and 2021-2022). The scheme is applicable to all unauthorised colonies (excluding affluent unauthorised colonies), such as Lal Dora village, and to the extended population of such villages and properties allotted to Kashmiri migrants by the government. The scheme will be operational till March 31, 2022,” SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said. BK Oberoi, the chairman of SDMC’s standing committee, said that SDMC had rolled out a similar amnesty scheme the previous year as well. “The move will provide a major relief to property taxpayers who could not pay property tax due to financial constraints. This scheme is also beneficial for those taxpayers who are not able to pay taxes due to penalties and interest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisouth-mcd-launches-amnesty-property-tax-scheme-for-unauthorised-colonies-101635532316899.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||12 who conned online fraud victims held in Delhi||Delhi Police caught a gang that duped victims of online financial fraud by floating a fake online redressal system and posing as cyber fraud officers. Police said on Friday that they arrested 12 persons from Delhi and Noida, who created webpages with similar nomenclature as of the government complaint redressal system and took money from online fraud victims by claiming to register their complaints.KPS Malhotra, deputy commissioner of police(cyber cell), said that the gang conned over 3,000 victims of online fraud. Police found the arrests conned the victims of atleast ₹1.74 crore in the last year. “They were conning individuals who tried to lodge complaints regarding online cheating. They charged the victims processing fees and subsequently stopped responding by blocking them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gang-that-conned-online-fraud-victims-held-in-delhi-101635532254345.html
30-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: Demand for e-vehicles rise; district got 6,937 such vehicles||The transport department in Gautam Budh Nagar has so far (approximately in two years) registered 6,937 electric vehicles and the demand for such vehicles has been gradually rising due to enforcement drives against polluting vehicles and rise in fuel prices, said officials on Friday.A K Pandey, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO - administration), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the total 6,937 electric vehicles include 5,938 electric rickshaws, 611 two-wheelers, 299 electric carts, 82 four wheelers, and seven three wheelers in the district.“We usually register 10 to 15 electric vehicles a day. Due to the rise in enforcement drives against polluting vehicles in the district, the demand has been increasing in the recent months. These electric vehicles are environment-friendly and do not need pollution under control (PUC) certificates,” Pandey said, adding that the district transport department has launched a drive to check pollution levels of vehicles, and a fine of ₹10,000 will be imposed against people crossing the limits, i.e., the violators.Md Irfan Azad, director of an electric vehicle showroom in Noida Sector 9, said that the prices for petrol and diesel have been rising and hence people are opting for electric vehicles. “These electric vehicles are environment-friendly and are very economical as compared to petrol/diesel vehicles. These vehicles are also fitted with smart charging cables and can be charged at home easily,” Azad said.Abhijeet Sinha, director, Ease of Doing Business programme of the Advance Services for Social and Administrative Reforms (ASSAR) -- which is developing an electric corridor on the Yamuna Expressway -- said that he has studied electric mobility of people living in Delhi-NCR. “We have found that most of the people living in Delhi-NCR travel to other cities frequently. Before buying a car, they consider if they will be able to drive the car in other cities. Since charging the vehicles is an issue, some people hesitate to buy electric cars,” Sinha said.Sinha also said that from November 25 to December 25, 2020, the ASSAR had conducted a trial run on the Yamuna Expressway, and found that 10 electric vehicle charging stations are required along the route -- one each in Greater Noida and Agra, and four on both sides each. At present, there are only two charging stations -- one each in Noida and Greater Noida.The ASSAR has submitted a report to the central government on the electric corridor, Sinha said, adding that the prices of electric vehicles are high and it should be reduced so that more people can buy those.The transport department in Gautam Budh Nagar said on Friday that it has got 771,087 registered vehicles (including electric vehicles), with 472,547 two-wheelers, 225,290 four-wheelers, 19,647 goods carriers, 17,765 autos, 13,148 taxi/cabs, 7,482 tractors, 5,816 electric rickshaws, 4,094 buses, 2,141 commercial two-wheelers, 538 ambulances, and 2,619 other vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-demand-for-e-vehicles-rise-district-got-6-937-such-vehicles-101635531731578.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Ownership rights for over 10,000 residents of unauthorised colonies in Delhi||About 10,650 residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi have received ownership rights of their properties under the Centre’s PM-UDAY scheme, which was launched in 2019.According to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the nodal agency for the scheme’s implementation, 87,275 property owners have applied for ownership rights under the scheme. About 30,717 applications have been disposed of so far. “Of the 30,717 applicants, 10,650 have got conveyance deeds or registration slips -- they can now register their properties with the Delhi government,” said an official, requesting anonymity.Two years after the DDA started implementing the scheme, close to 438,000 people have registered on its website till October 22.Ahead of the Delhi assembly election in 2020, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government announced the Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY) which aims to benefit the 4 million people living in 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ownership-rights-for-over-10-000-residents-of-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-101635531354403.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||Amid buzz over VAT relief on fuel, UP government may have to assess financial situation||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government would have to weigh its options and evaluate the prevailing financial situation if it considers reviewing the rate of value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel in order to give any such relief in fuel prices to consumers before the 2022 assembly elections, experts have said.Although chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who presided over a high-level meeting to discuss the rate of VAT in the backdrop of the consistent increase in prices of petrol and diesel on Thursday, did not give any specific directives on the issue, his move to discuss the same has triggered a debate.“Yes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath convened a meeting to discuss the issue on Thursday. He has, however, not given any instructions in this regard after the meeting,” said a senior officer aware of the discussions there.The Uttar Pradesh government imposes VAT of 26.80% or ₹18.74 per litre (whichever is higher) on petrol. It imposes VAT of 17.48% or ₹10.41 per litre (whichever is higher) on diesel.UP finance minister Suresh Khanna, quoting the VAT in Uttar Pradesh via-a-vis other states, had recently asserted that the rate of tax was higher than Uttar Pradesh’s in many other states.Those aware of the prevailing situation on the financial front feel the timing of the decision on the issue would be crucial if the state government goes ahead with the move in the coming weeks.“If the state government goes ahead with the move to bring down the rate of VAT, it will certainly give some relief to the people. The timing may, however, be dictated by electoral compulsions. The state government has been claiming an increase in its revenue in recent months. This may give some elbow room to the state government to provide relief to the people,” said professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the economics department at Lucknow University.The state government earned VAT of ₹2200.40 crore, about 106% of the target of ₹2060.43 crore for September 2021 against ₹1653 crore earned in the same month in 2020. It earned ₹12137.27 crore as VAT in the first six months of 2021-2022, only 39% of the annual target of VAT collection of ₹31,100 crore. The state government’s likely VAT collection in 2021-2022 therefore shows that any cut in the tax rate will directly affect UP’s finances in the coming months.“Yes, the state government is bound to lose substantive revenue by giving relief to the people in VAT in the coming months. The state government will have to weigh all the options carefully before taking a call on the issue. It will be better if the Centre also complements the Uttar Pradesh’s move by reducing the excise duty on them to provide some relief to the people,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/buzz-over-vat-relief-on-fuel-up-government-may-have-to-assess-financial-situation-101635531294217.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DDA earmarks ₹825cr to ease water, power access in Narela||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has approved projects worth nearly ₹825 crore in Narela, as part of its initiative to revive the area as the new residential, industrial and commercial hub in the Capital.According to a senior DDA official, the land-owning agency is focusing on upgrading the existing civic infrastructure in two important sectors, G2 and G6, where close to 20,000 flats have been constructed or are in various stages of construction. DDA plans to develop them as “zero waste” sectors.In a recent meeting, the DDA also approved projects related to construction of a 10-km-long road (20m wide) connecting the sectors, laying of water supply lines, stormwater drains and sewerage, among others.“We have sanctioned projects worth ₹824.73 crore of which ₹245 crore will be spent on water and sewerage, and ₹138 crore for setting up of an electric grid sub-station. In the days to come, new industries, institutions and residential areas will come up due to which there will be an increase in demand for electricity,” said a senior DDA official.Lack of water and transport services has been one of the main reasons why Narela, which is one of the three sub-cities planned by the DDA, could not become a popular residential hub.Earlier this year, the DDA decided to develop Narela as a priority area and made budgetary provisions to address water and transport related issues.The DDA has decided to pay ₹1,000 crore, in a phased manner, to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the construction of Rithala-Bawana-Narela corridor, which is going to be the first Metrolite corridor developed by DMRC in the city. The two agencies are working on a proposal to construct a 5.6km-long line from the Rithala-Narela corridor to connect Pooth Khurd and Holambi Kalan areas.“We will pay ₹1,000 crore for the project. We have allocated ₹400 crore in next year’s budget for the Metro project. We are focusing on developing Narela in a big way,” said a senior DDA official.The National Highways Authority of India is soon going to start work on the 79km-long Urban Extension Road-II project, which will connect north Delhi areas, such as Narela and Rohini, with west and southwest Delhi, including IGI airport.A senior DDA official said, “UER-II will improve the connectivity between Narela and the rest of Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidda-approves-825-crore-infra-projects-to-develop-narela-101635530934518.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Gogi gang sharpshooter shot dead, two policemen injured in gunfight||An alleged member of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gang was killed and two police personnel sustained injuries in a shootout on Friday morning in New Delhi’s Begumpur area.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said Deepak Sharma alias Bachi, 25, a resident of Jind, Haryana, had at least six criminal cases against him and was a sharpshooter of Jitender Gogi gang. DCP Tayal said Sharma was wanted in connection with the murder of a person named Deepak Singh, alias Radhe, on October 11.Radhe, a suspected member of the Tillu Tajpuria gang, was allegedly shot dead by Gogi’s accomplices on October 11, apparently because he had hosted a party to celebrate Gogi’s murder. In the last two weeks, police have arrested four people -- gangsters Rohit Moi, Gogi’s second in command, and Kapil Maan, both of whom were in jail, and two others Sahil Solanki and Naveen Sharma -- in connection with the case.DCP Tayal said that on Friday morning, police received a tip off about Sharma visiting his accomplice in Begumpur in Rohini. “Our team laid a trap in the area at around 5-5.15am. The team saw a man on a white TVS Apache motorcycle and signalled him to halt. But instead of stopping, he fired at the police team. One of our inspectors was hit on his bulletproof vest. He also fired at two constables who sustained bullet injuries. Our team also fired in self defense and Deepak Sharma was injured. We rushed him and the two constables to the hospital, where Sharma was declared brought dead,” said DCP Tayal.Police said Sharma had jumped parole in Delhi and Haryana and had been declared a fugitive.Gogi was shot dead by two gunmen inside a courtroom in Rohini district court when he was produced for a hearing on September 24. The gunmen posed as lawyers to enter the courtroom and waited for over half an hour for Gogi to show up, before opening fire on him. Police had earlier arrested Tajpuriya and gangster Sunil Maan, for Gogi’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhigogi-gang-sharpshooter-shot-dead-two-policemen-injured-in-gunfight-101635530874203.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up government over hawking plan||The Delhi high court on Friday pulled up the state government for not preparing the statutory street vending plan, saying that the city’s administration can’t be held at “ransom” by vendors.The court also questioned the formation of the Town Vending Committee (TVC) for the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area.“Please get down to some real work. Enough of politics. Where is the (street vending) plan?... Unfortunately, we are saying with a lot of pain that you people are not acting in the manner the Street Vendors Act was framed. People are taking advantage of it,” said a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh.It also pointed out that the NDMC TVC includes representatives of small markets but excludes the bigger stakeholders like shopkeepers of Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Khan Market, Janpath, Gole Market, and Bengali Market.The court was hearing a plea by the New Delhi Traders Association, through senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, seeking to strike down the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2019.While seeking the Delhi government and NDMC’s response on the plea, the court directed the Delhi government to specifically mention in the affidavit the justification for the constitution of the current TVC for the NDMC area.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra and standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi, representing the Delhi government, said, “It is festival period... if they are spared for a week, they will be able to earn some money during the festival and help their families... Kindly modify the order (of removal of illegal hawkers and street vendors).”The court said, “Till the time it is a no hawking zone...you have to implement it. If you have the power to amend the law, do it, but till the time law is there, you have to implement it,” it said.The matter will now be heard on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-delhi-government-over-hawking-plan-101635530456613.html
30-10-2021||Delhi||Amid protests, DU body passes hiring changes for assistant professors||Delhi University’s executive council (EC), the varsity’s highest decision-making body, on Friday passed a number of academic reforms, including changes to the recruitment process for assistant professors in the colleges and university departments, which drew protests from the teachers’ body.Among the changes include caps on the number of people to be interviewed for the post and a screening mechanism for shortlisting candidates for the interview, which some teachers claimed goes against a 2019 agreement promising all ad hoc teachers in the varsity a chance to interview for the assistant professor job. Three of the 20-member EC dissented on the proposal (item 5.1).Dissenting members sat in protest against the screening process, and sought absorption of all ad-hoc and temporary teachers.EC member Seema Das said that the vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh had promised discussion on the 2019 document in future meetings. “Interviews are not good enough as we have seen how they are discriminatory. We rejected the 5.1 annexure and registered our dissent,” said Das.Rajpal Singh Pawar, another EC member who dissented, said that it was important to do away with the point-based criteria for screening: “A number of people will be left out at the screening level itself if one goes by the current parameters and the assessment point index. There are people who have been teaching for years and don’t have a PhD.”DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said that teachers’ body will not tolerate any violation of the December 5, 2019, record of discussion.“Teachers gathered outside the VC’s office today to protest against the unfair screening process,” said Ray.However, EC member VS Negi, a member of the National Teachers’ Democratic Front, said all working ad-hoc teachers will get a chance to appear for the interview. “During the meeting, the VC assured that the December 5 letter will be examined...,” said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-protests-delhi-university-executive-council-passes-asst-prof-hiring-changes-101635529795417.html
30-10-2021||Lucknow||‘300+ seats again’: Amit Shah sets pitch for 2022 UP||Union home minister Amit Shah set the tone for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections, coining the slogan “ek baar phir se 300 paar (once more 300+ seats)” and urged the people of the state to re-elect the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power and Yogi Adityanath as the chief minister in Uttar Pradesh.UP goes to the polls early next year and Shah claimed his party has met “more than 90%” of the promises in its 2017 manifesto. “We need five more years to make UP the number one state in the country,” he added, emphasising the importance of the state to the party’s electoral prospects in 2024. If you want to see Narendra Modi as Prime Minister in 2024, he said “you have to make Yogi Adityanath UP CM in 2022”.In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP and its allies won 325 of the 403 seats in the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party and its allies won 64 of the 80 seats in the state.Shah was speaking at the launch of the party’s membership drive ‘Mera pariwar, bhajapa pariwar (my family, BJP family)’ in Lucknow on Friday.Even as he lauded CM Adityanath’s handling of the Covid situation in the state, Shah lashed out at :Akhilesh and company”, “behenji”, and “Gandhi-Vadra pariwar” , the Samajwadi Party, Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress, the three other main players in the state.“We have done a lot in these five years. But these political parties have left such big holes behind that filling them would require some more time. UP will set the stage for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. I have come here to appeal to you to give another chance to Modi ji and help make Yogi ji chief minister again and that is why we are saying, once more, go past 300 seats,” Shah said at a well-attended public meeting in Lucknow.Twice during his address, Shah, who is expected to visit UP twice in November, urged the people to help make Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister again, an exhortation that did not go unnoticed within the party. Yogi Adityanath’s continuation, as the chief ministerial candidate ahead of the polls, was subject to much speculation in May-June.Shah’s address was sprinkled with remarks on the Ayodhya Ram temple and the exodus of Hindus from Kairana in western UP in 2016, something which has been stopped, he said . He said the temple issue got a clear resolution under the leadership of PM Modi. “Kairana palayan se mere khoon kholta tha… par ab palayan karane wale ab palayan kar rahe (my blood boiled at the Kairana exodus.. but those who forced the exodus have now fled themselves)” he said. “UP is the land of Baba Vishwanath, the birthplace of Lord Ram and Krishna but for the first time since the Mughal rule, the state seems to have got its identity back,” he said.Hailed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “man of the match” for the party’s win in 2014 Lok Sabha polls, when BJP swept UP, Shah also launched the Modi 11 app, an online platform to help people connect with the party. He said that the BJP’s membership drive would continue till the end of the year. “We believe in family planning but we relax this definition when it comes to expanding our BJP family,” he added.“Governments are not meant for family benefits. They are meant to help the poorest of the poor. We are willing to give an account of our term in power but Akhilesh babu, I surely would like to ask you how much time did you spend in a foreign land, where were you during Covid-19 and floods? These politicians and parties have worked for themselves, their families or at the most, their caste. But, the Modi government has worked for the poorest of the poor, Dalits, tribals, women, backwards.”Reacting to Shah, Congress leader Zeeshan Haidar said: “In politics, one should be humble... The beauty of democracy is that people’s will is supreme. So one should not behave as if they are here forever...”Professor Manuka Khanna of Lucknow University’s political science department said: “Predicting a clear cut winner is difficult but BJP appears to be well prepared for the battle at the hustings at the moment.”Ajay Mishra shares stageUnion minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, also shared the stage with Shah at the event.While Mishra refused to comment on the case, he said: “That’s a satisfaction that none can say that I misused my position (to save his son).”Criticising Mishra’s presence at the event, Haidar said: “This shows the hollowness of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s claim that rule of law prevails in UP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-boosts-morale-of-bjp-workers-underscores-need-for-discipline-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-101635528474062.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Enquiry against Sameer Wankhede; NCB vigilance team records statement of one more person||A four-member Mumbai Police team, headed by an officer of rank of assistant commissioner of police (ACP), has begun its probe into allegations of corruption against officers of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), including Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the lead investigator in the cruise drugs raid case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was arrested earlier this month.“If the enquiry reveals commission of any cognisable offence, a First Information Report (FIR) would be registered against the concerned person/s and further investigation would be commenced as per due procedure,” an officer familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity.At least four police stations have received complaints against NCB officials and Wankhede after Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the drugs case, in an affidavit on October 23 claimed that investigators made him sign on 10 sheets of blank paper at their office on the day of the raid.Sail also alleged that he overheard his employer, Kiran Gosavi (another witness in the case) speaking on the phone about extorting ₹25 crore to settle the case and release Aryan Khan, which could be negotiated to ₹ 18 crore, with ₹8 crore purportedly for Wankhede.The affidavit further stated that Gosavi met Shah Rukh Khan’s manager, Pooja Dadlani, and a purported exchange of money took place between them on October 3. Aryan was arrested later that afternoon and released on Friday.Wankhede has denied all allegations made in the affidavit. “This is a malicious allegation to target my reputation. I condemn it,” he said.The Mumbai Police team, led by ACP Milind Khetle of Azad Maidan division, and comprising inspector Ajay Sawant (Colaba police station), sub-inspector Prakash Gawli (cyber police) and assistant inspector Shrikant Karkar (anti-narcotics cell), began examining call detail records (CDR), close circuit television (CCTV) footage at the locations where the alleged meetings took place and where a bag of cash was purportedly exchanged. It also began examining the phone call locations of NCB officials and other individuals who were part of the alleged extortion plan.“The focus of our inquiry is to ascertain how the money transactions, if any, took place. Sail said that there were cash transactions and proving that will be very challenging. We are in the process of identifying witnesses who were part of the alleged transaction or witnessed it. Only after finding strong evidence will we register an FIR,” another officer said on condition of anonymity. “Once we establish that money transactions were made for the purposes of bribery or extortion, we will try to ascertain whether Gosavi was acting on his own or whether he was following any NCB officer’s orders,” the officer added.The police team is being supervised by ACP Dilip Sawant and DCP Hemrajsingh Rajput.Sail, who was interrogated by Mumbai Police for several hours on October 27 and 28, filed an application seeking protection at Sahar police station on October 25. “He has shared all details to substantiate his claims,” Sail’s lawyer Tushar Khandare said.A separate enquiry is being conducted by a vigilance team, led by NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh, based on Sail’s allegations. The team, which is currently in Mumbai, has recorded the statements of eight people, including Wankhede and four other NCB officers, so far. It has also sought Sail’s participation in the enquiry. “[On Thursday] We requested the Mumbai Police commissioner also to convey our message to Sail, as we learnt through various media reports that he was being investigated by them, to join our inquiry. Surprisingly, Sail has not come forward. In the last three days, we have used all our sources to serve him a notice directly and also through his relatives and also contacted his advocate,” Singh told reporters on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/enquiry-against-sameer-wankhede-ncb-vigilance-team-records-statement-of-one-more-person-101635526793924.html
30-10-2021||Mumbai||Blacklisted contractors paid kickbacks to be eligible for bidding: Mumbai BJP MLA||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday alleged that the seven-year ban on two road contractors was reduced to three years, while the others were given a clean-chit following kickbacks to a minister. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had blacklisted the six contractors for their involvement in the 2016 roads scam, BJP said. BJP legislator Mihir Kotecha alleged that kickbacks of around ₹100 crore were paid for reducing the blacklisting period so that the tainted contractors could take part in the new tenders for road works worth ₹2,200 crore.“These road contractors were found guilty in the ₹975-crore road scam. They had been blacklisted for seven years and were not able to bid for any contracts till now. However, the blacklisting period for two of them was reduced to just three years in 2019 and the remaining contractors have been given a clean chit now, so that they can now bid in the current road tenders,” said Kotecha.Kotecha added, “This was done at the behest of a cabinet minister and the minister’s cousin.”The 2016 road scam came to light after incumbent mayor Snehal Ambekar alleged malpractices in repair works in a confidential letter to then municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta.Babasaheb Salve, director in-charge of BMC, who issued the orders to reduce the blacklisting period, refused to comment, stating that he was in a meeting. However, additional civic commissioner P Velrasu said, “The orders [to reduce the blacklisting period] have been issued in a quasi-judicial capacity. Apparently, the companies have already been blacklisted for almost six years. No Act or norm provides for six or seven years of blacklisting. There are strong high court and Supreme Court case precedents available. The Central government procurement manual does not provide for more than two years of blacklisting. So, I feel the orders by the director are logical and proper.” Meanwhile, Shiv Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said, “We deny all the allegations levied by BJP. They are stuck on one figure – ₹100 crore – and bring it up at every instance. This is BJP’s agenda for the upcoming elections as well as because we are exposing their scam in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-road-scam-blacklisted-contractors-paid-kickbacks-to-be-eligible-for-bidding-101635523853632.html
30-10-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC slams Centre for shifting chief secretary case||A two-judge bench of the Calcutta high court on Friday made strong remarks against the Centre while setting aside the Central Administrative Tribunal’s (CAT) decision to transfer the hearing of a petition by West Bengal’s former chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay from the tribunal’s Kolkata bench to Delhi.Bandopadhyay, who was appointed chief adviser to CM Mamata Banerjee after his retirement on May 31, moved CAT after the Centre’s Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) drew up proceedings against him for not attending a meeting called by PM Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda in Bengal on May 28 to review the damage done by Cyclone Yaas. Hours after this meeting, Bandopadhyay was asked by DoPT to report for duty in Delhi but the CM refused to release him.The bench of justices Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya and Rabindranath Samanta on Friday set aside the CAT order and said the modus operandi of the Centre to get the case transferred to the principal bench of CAT in Delhi appeared mala fide.“The entire modus operandi adopted by the Union of India reeks of mala fides. It is unfortunate that the Principal Bench of the CAT nurtured such efforts by passing the impugned transfer order... Rather, the responsibility of meting out justice and serving the cause of justice is on a much higher pedestal for the Union of India than an ordinary individual litigant,” the bench said in its order. HT has seen a copy of the order.Bandopadhyay moved CAT after he was asked to appear before DoPT for framing of charges. He moved the high court after CAT, in its order passed on October 21, moved the hearing of his petition from Kolkata to Delhi.“The alleged recalcitrance of the writ petitioner on May 28, 2021 took place within the territorial jurisdiction of the Kolkata Bench, the articles of charge against the petitioner were levelled in the teeth of the communication of the Chief Minister herself from Kolkata, which could also be a potentially important piece of evidence,” said Friday’s order after the Centre’s counsel challenged the high court’s jurisdiction in the caseBandopadhyay was not available for comments on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/reeks-of-mala-fide-hc-scraps-cat-order-to-move-bengal-officer-s-plea-to-delhi-101635511552932.html
30-10-2021||Other||NDPP retains Shamator-Chessore seat uncontested in Nagaland bypoll||The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) in Nagaland has retained the Shamator-Chessore assembly constituency in the bypoll scheduled for October 30 with its candidate S Keoshu Yimchunger declared elected uncontested on October 13 by the state chief electoral officer’s (CEO) establishment.Yimchunger, a newcomer in the state electoral politics, was the consensus candidate of the newly formed opposition-less United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in Nagaland where the NDPP, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Naga People's Front (NPF) and two independent MLAs are partners. Prior to the 2018 state general assembly elections, the NDPP and BJP had a seat-sharing agreement. While the two parties with the support of one independent, along with two National People’s Party MLAs and one Janata Dal (United) MLA had formed the People’s Democratic Alliance, the latter three MLAs later merged with the NDPP. The old regional giant Naga People’s Front (NPF) had played the role of opposition until July this year when they moved to form an all-party government to push the long drawn-out Naga peace talks. Formation of the new opposition-less government under the nomenclature UDA was finalised in September.The bypoll to Shamatore-Chessore seat in the Nagaland Legislative Assembly was necessitated by the demise of the then sitting NDPP MLA Toshi Wungtung in July this year.Yimchunger was the sole candidate to file nomination papers to contest in the bypoll and following scrutiny of his documents, which were found to be valid and after the last hour for withdrawal of candidature on October 13, he was handed over the certificate of election-by-election officials.With Yimchunger’s uncontested victory, the NDPP’s total strength in the house of 60 now stands at 21, while NPF has 25 MLAs and BJP has 12, and two independent legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ndpp-retains-shamator-chessore-seat-uncontested-in-nagaland-bypoll-101635509320632.html
30-10-2021||Other||YSRC’s strategy to field deceased MLA’s widow gives them edge in Badvel bypoll||It’s advantage for ruling YSR Congress party in the bypoll to Badvel constituency in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district, with primary opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) opting out of the contest and two other contenders – Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress not having enough strength to fight the battle.The by-election to Badvel is necessitated owing to the sudden demise of sitting YSRC MLA Dr Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah in March due to illness. The party has fielded Subbaiah’s widow Dasari Sudha, a practising doctor, to cash in on the sympathy factor. Moreover, Kadapa has been the bastion of YSRC led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and in the last elections, the party swept all the 10 assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats in the district.Badvel has been the stronghold of YSRC, with the party representing the constituency for the last two terms. Evidently, it has the advantage over others in winning the bypoll scheduled for October 30.Interestingly, the TDP initially announced the candidature of Obulapuram Rajasekhar, who unsuccessfully contested the last assembly elections, for the Badvel seat. He, however, opted out of the bypoll battle after YSRC announced the candidature of deceased MLAs’ widow.“As per the tradition established by the TDP itself, we don’t want to contest the by-elections, if the spouse of a sitting MLA is fielded by the rival party,” TDP state president K Atchannaidu said.Jana Sena Party established by popular Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan declared that it would fight the bypolls with the help of its alliance partner BJP, but the party also dropped out from the contest on grounds that it would follow the convention of not fielding candidate against the spouse of the deceased MLA.But BJP sprang a surprise on its alliance partner by jumping into the fray and fielding Panthala Suresh, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 elections from Railway Koduru constituency. Similarly, the Congress also fielded former MLA PM Kamalamma, who represented Badvel from 2009 to 2014.However, both the BJP and the Congress have not been strong enough to fight against the YSRC. The Congress has completely lost its ground in the state post bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, and has been drawing blank both in the assembly as well as Lok Sabha elections since 2014. Most of its leaders and cadre have already defected to the YSRC.Similarly, the BJP has little base in the southern state, though it won a few seats earlier due to the alliance with the TDP in the past. Yet, it wants to put up the fight in Badvel as part of its long-term plan to grow as a political alternative to the YSRC.Several BJP leaders including state party president Somu Veerraju, BJP national general secretary Daggubati Purandeshwari, BJP national in-charge of Andhra Pradesh Sunil Deodhar, MPs CM Ramesh and GVL Narasimha Rao and BJP state secretary Satya Kumar have been campaigning for their candidate in Badvel for the last few days.Though Jana Sena has been the alliance partner of the BJP, it has stayed away from the campaign as a matter of principle. That is also a negative factor for the BJP. “But the Jana Sena Party cadres will vote for the BJP. Even the TDP cadres are also expected to vote for the BJP candidate, as they definitely won’t vote for YSRC candidate,” a state BJP leader said.As the YSRC is sitting pretty in the Badvel constituency, it is not sweating it out much in the campaign. Party president and chief minister Reddy stayed away from campaign but wrote open letters to all the voters asking them to give a huge majority to YSRC candidate in the by-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ysrcs-strategy-to-field-deceased-mla-s-widow-gives-them-edge-in-badvel-bypoll-101635506890492.html
