31-10-2021||Pune||245 new Covid cases in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE On Sunday, Pune district has reported 245 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,943 is the death toll and 3,432 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also 6,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 128 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 365,347. The death toll stands at 6,892. Pune city reported 69 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 520,765 with the death toll at 9,199. PCMC reported 48 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268,664. The toll stands at 3,503.Pune district also saw 6,951 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Sunday. A total of 12,107,466 have been vaccinated, of which 7,842,955are first doses and 4,264,511 are second doses. A total of 251 sites saw vaccinations of which 146 are govt centres and 105 are private centres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/245-new-covid-cases-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101635704907459.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Daily wager jumps into crocodile-infested river to save ghariyal eggs||Bahraich: It takes extreme courage to jump into a river infested with crocodiles and ghariyals, merely to save a couple of eggs. But then, exceptions are usual in Katarniyaghat Wildlife Sanctuary, located on the Indo-Nepal border.Unmindful of the risk to his life, Laxman, a daily wage employee in Katraniyaghat Wildlife Sanctuary, jumped into the deep water of the Gairuwa river to save the floating eggs of ghariyals. He retrieved them and placed them back at the breeding pads near the Ghariyal Centre set up at the KWS so that baby ghariyals may be hatched out. On being asked, Laxman said that a sandbar where ghariyals laid their eggs was cut down by the flow of the Gairuwa. He said he saw two ghariyal eggs floating in the river and jumped in without even thinking. There are only two rivers, Chambal and Gairuwa, in the world where ghariyals’ (Gavialis Gengeticus) natural breeding takes place in a concentrated manner. The reptile has been declared one of the most critically endangered species in the world. It is 20 times more endangered than the tiger in the Red Data Book published recently by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN). It may be noted that the Gairuwa , which originates in Nepal, enters the sanctuary through eight channels. Owing to fresh and uncontaminated water of Gairuwa, several endangered species like Gangetic dolphins and ghariyals are growing well here.Divisional forest officer (DFO) Akash Deep Badhawan praised Laxman for his outstanding and courageous task. He said people did not even dare to go on a boat in these waters where ghariyals were present in good number. The DFO said last week a boy’s leg had to be amputated due to crocodile attack.Recalling another forester’s courageous work, Badhawan said one Pawan Shukla was attacked and injured twice in leopard attack in 2006 and 2020. But even after two attacks, Pawan goes to the forest for patrolling with full dedication. The DFO said the work of foresters was not less than that of a soldier deployed on the border. But their work was not being recognized like police men and soldiers. Inspector general of forests Ramesh Kumar Pandey also shared Laxman’s picture on his Twitter handle as an unsung hero.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/daily-wager-jumps-into-crocodile-infested-river-to-save-ghariyal-eggs-101635704784709.html
31-10-2021||Other||UP ATS arrests one more member of inter-state fake currency gang||Lucknow: The UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Sunday arrested one more member of the inter-state fake currency gang, involved in the circulation of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) in various parts of the state and the country, including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Jaipur, said ATS officials. The gang members duped several businessmen, realtors and professors in these cities by providing them high quality fake currency notes, claiming that these were of four times the face value of original currency, they added.UP police additional director general (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said, “The arrested gang member has been identified as Michael Yadav alias Monty, a resident of Varanasi. Monty was arrested on Sunday in connection with a FIR of fraud and loot registered at Gomti Nagar police station in the matter.” The gang was busted after arrest of two persons Abhishek Pratap Singh of Pratapgarh and Saurabh Yadav of Maharashtra, on Friday. ATS officials said that the gang members used to convince the victims that the fake notes were of such high quality that these would easily be circulated, and could not be detected by law enforcement agencies and banks. However, to dupe the victims they used to show a few real Indian currency notes and claim these were fake notes of superior quality, they added. The officials said the gang had duped and robbed at least 20 people using the same modus operandi in the past two years and the victims never complained fearing police action against them. As per the ATS press release, the officials said the gang was busted after arrest of two people Abhishek Pratap Singh of Pratapgarh and Saurabh Yadav of Maharashtra on Friday. The ATS had recovered around ₹ 44.77 lakh from their possession that they had robbed from a Prayagraj realtor in a Noida hotel on October 27. The total ₹90 lakh was robbed from the realtor. Sharing further details, the ADG said that the gang members used to call their prey at some secluded place with money after convincing them on phone and fled with their money after robbing or duping them. “Monty revealed that he has been associated with the gang since March, 2019, after meeting the two leaders of the gang Sachin and Avinendra Mishra in a Mumbai hotel,” he said. “As per Monty’s revelation, the gang has duped ₹5 lakh from an agricultural university professor in Prayagraj, ₹ 80 lakh from a professor of another university in Lucknow, robbed ₹30 lakh from a Jaipur businessman in Delhi, a Prayagraj relator in Noida and a businessman in Varanasi. Besides, the gang had duped and robbed several other people in different cities and states,” he stated. The official said, three members of the gang have been arrested while the involvement of five more have surfaced during the investigation and further efforts are been done for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-ats-arrests-one-more-member-of-inter-state-fake-currency-gang-101635704486751.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||CBI makes first arrest in corruption case against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||The CBI took into custody one Santosh Jagtap on Sunday in connection with a case of alleged corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, making it the first arrest in the high-profile case, officials said.The agency arrested Jagtap, an alleged middleman, from Maharashtra's Thane in the morning, they said, adding that the accused was evading the probe even after the issuance of non-bailable warrants against him last month.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had raided the premises of Jagtap in August and seized ₹9 lakh in cash, the officials said.The agency has booked Deshmukh and other unidentified accused under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) section related to criminal conspiracy and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act for an "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".After he was removed from the Mumbai police commissioner's post, Param Bir Singh had alleged in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over ₹100 crore a month from the bars and restaurants in the city."The Preliminary Enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognizable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra, Anil Deshmukh, and unknown others attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR alleges.According to the CBI manual, a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) is initiated to assess if there is enough prima facie material in the allegations to proceed with a regular case for a full-fledged probe, the officials said.The CBI enquiry found that Waze, Assistant Police Inspector, Mumbai Police, was reinstated into the force after being out of police service for more than 15 years.He was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of Mumbai City Police and Deshmukh, the then home minister, knew about it, the FIR alleges.It also alleges that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials, thereby exercising undue influence over the performance of their official duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-makes-first-arrest-in-corruption-case-against-anil-deshmukh-101635702915762.html
31-10-2021||Noida||Air quality in Noida, Ghaziabad worsens||The air quality in Noida worsened on Sunday, but remained in the ‘poor’ category. The air quality is, however, likely to improve over the next two days due to the change in the wind direction from northwesterly -- which carries smoke from stubble burning -- to the cleaner southerly, according to the air pollution monitoring agencies.“The festival rush or increase in traffic movement, and dropping temperatures or wind speed, are the reasons behind the spike in the pollution levels over the past 24 hours,” said Shambhavi Shukla, deputy programme manager (air pollution), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) reading, on a scale of zero to 500, for Noida on Sunday was at 292 against 260 a day earlier. The AQI in Ghaziabad was at 342 against 273 on Saturday, and 292 in Greater Noida against 273 a day earlier.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the fire count has reduced slightly over the past 24 hours, and the air quality is likely to improve in the coming days.“The air quality is likely to improve to the upper end of the ‘poor’ category in the next two days due to an expected change in the wind direction to westerly or southwesterly, reducing the transport of emissions from stubble burning. Isolated rainfall is likely in the upwind region which would improve the air quality. Share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 is about 8% at present. Prevailing shallow mixing layer height reduces dispersion of pollutants,” according to a statement by the SAFAR on Sunday.According to the Safar, the effective fire count (stubble burning) on Sunday was recorded at 1,734 against 1,826 a day earlier.Meanwhile, the daytime temperatures recorded a slight drop in Noida. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Sunday were recorded at 29.2 degrees Celsius and 17.1 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 29.2 degrees Celsius and 14.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, a day earlier.“Maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 30 degrees Celsius and 17 degrees Celsius on Monday,” said an IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-in-noida-ghaziabad-worsens-101635704066288.html
31-10-2021||Noida||Noida admin launches month-long drive to revise electoral rolls||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration will launch a month-long campaign from November 1 to revise the electoral rolls ahead of the upcoming assembly elections, with an aim to enrol new voters and also weed out people who have shifted out. Vandita Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance and revenue), and deputy district election officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the special summary revision of electoral rolls will take place from Monday. “The booth level officers (BLOs) will visit door-to-door for this exercise. We will also organise four special camps on November 7, 13, 21, and 27 – which fall on Saturdays and Sundays – where people can submit forms for enrolment or corrections,” Srivastava said. “There are 1,754 booths in the district, with one BLO at each booth. We have provided the required training to the BLOs to conduct the revision exercise. They have been asked to ensure 100% compliance to corrections of electoral rolls in their respective areas,” she said. The district administration on Saturday held a meeting with the BLOs, and also conducted the first level checking of the electronic voting machines. “The revision forms can be submitted either online or offline. People can submit their forms to the BLOs and also at their tehsils. In online process, they can use www.nvsp.in or voters helpline app – VHA,” said the deputy district election officer. People who complete 18 years on January 1, 2022, are eligible for enrolment as voters. People can also call the election control room number – 1950 – for any query or clarification, the officials said.Srivastava said that the district election office also conducted the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme in different colleges in Greater Noida in the past few weeks to enrol young voters. As of October 31, 2021, Gautam Budh Nagar has 1,567,617 registered voters in three assembly constituencies – Noida (having 664,837 voters), Dadri (565,682) and Jewar (337,098). Uttar Pradesh may go to polls in May next year, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-admin-launches-month-long-drive-to-revise-electoral-rolls-101635704064969.html
31-10-2021||Noida||Noida’s first anti-smog tower likely to be operational on Tuesday||The first anti-smog tower in the city, along the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) road near the Film City in Noida, may be operational on Tuesday to mitigate air pollution in the area, said officials of the Noida authority on Sunday.The 20-metre-tall anti-smog tower will cover a space of 400 square metres, and mitigate air pollution during the winter season.“We have completed installation of the anti-smog tower and aim to make it operational on Tuesday, if everything goes well. We have completed all the installation work properly, and the operations will commence to keep the air clean,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority.During the trial, if the authority finds out that the tower is capable of reducing the pollution levels, then, it will install multiple anti-smog towers at different locations.“In a trial for at least 15 days, we will plan installation of anti-smog towers at other locations too,” Mishra added.According to the authority officials, it has built the tower under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds which were arranged from the central government’s public sector undertakings (PSUs). A budget of ₹2.5 crore was allocated for the project. The work on the ground started on September 25 this year after the approval in its board meeting on September 24.The tower will clean the air with polluting particles around it and release purified air, said the officials. Equipped with intake and exhaust fans, the tower will initially run with the help of electricity. The authority, however, plans to run the tower with the help of solar energy later.“We will require ₹3 lakh per month to run this tower properly. As of now, we will use electricity to run it, and will install solar panels later,” said an official of the Noida authority, requesting anonymity.He also said that the maintenance cost of the tower, excluding electricity charges, includes changing of filters which will clean pollutants in the air. “We will have to change the filters every 15 days.”Covering an area of 1,000-metre radius around it, the tower will benefit the residents in Noida sectors 15, 15A, 16, 16A (Film City), 17 and 19 among others. Nearly 1 lakh commuters travel along the DND and the Delhi-Noida Expressway link road, and the installation of the tower will be beneficial for them too, said the authority officials.A machine fixed inside the tower will remove nearly 80% of the particulate matter i.e. PM2.5 and PM10 in the air, and help bring down the pollution levels in the area.In November 2019, the Supreme Court had asked the central and Delhi governments to come up with a road map for installing smog towers in the national capital region (NCR) to combat air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-first-anti-smog-tower-likely-to-be-operational-on-tuesday-101635703944741.html
31-10-2021||Other||Sunday vaccination drive in Lucknow: Over 21,000 jabbed against Covid-19||LUCKNOW: Over 21,000 people were inoculated against Covid-19 under the special vaccination drive conducted on Sunday, for the first time in Lucknow. Till 7pm, the total 21618 doses were administered at 133 vaccination centres. Of the total, about 500 doses were administered by private hospitals. “According to the health department data, 10,593 people took their first dose which means new beneficiaries were added on Sunday. This suggests more such initiatives should be conducted on holidays to motivate eligible beneficiaries to take the jab,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “The outcome of the Sunday vaccination will be analysed to decide similar drives in future,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow. Lucknow has so far administered 45,94,597 doses, including 31,06,503 first doses and 14,88,094 second doses, he added. The vaccination by government centres is conducted from Monday to Saturday while private hospitals conduct it seven days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sunday-vaccination-drive-in-lucknow-over-21-000-jabbed-against-covid19-101635703889710.html
31-10-2021||Kolkata||'No chance': BJP leader on Kailash Vijayvargiya returning to Bengal to oversee party's functioning||Former BJP West Bengal unit president Tathagata Roy on Sunday claimed there is “no chance” that the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya would return to the state to oversee its functioning.As in-charge of the party in West Bengal, Vijayvargiya supervised its campaign in the 2021 assembly elections in the state."As far as I know, there is no chance of Kailash Vijayvargiya returning to the state," Roy told a vernacular news channel.Roy had earlier criticised Vijayvargiya, former state president Dilip Ghosh and party leaders Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, blaming them for BJP’s poor show in the assembly polls held earlier this year.Asked for his reaction on Roy's comments, BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar said he has nothing to say about the remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-leader-says-vijayvargiya-won-t-return-to-bengal-to-oversee-bjp-s-functioning-101635703071915.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||#FLOWERPOWER: Diwali lifts spirits, all eyes now on ‘sahalag’!||The hustle bustle at the flower market in Chowk is bringing smiles on the faces of farmers, wholesellers and retailers. It’s 7 am and the buyers and sellers are busy trading the large variety of flowers that are brought from nearby places including cities like Bangalore, Bhopal, Mumbai, Pune as well as abroad. With Dhanteras just a day away, followed by Diwali festivities and marriage season ahead, everyone is upbeat about the coming months. They have faced huge losses due to ongoing pandemic which resulted in small weddings, slim gatherings and low-key events. “Peechle saal se hi dhandha bahut manda hai! Last Diwali was passive and marriages were also low key with cap on large gathering. Is Diwali se umeed hai sab accha hoga aur agey bhi jabardast sahalag hai,” says whole seller Mohd Aleem Rehman who houses decorative flowers which includes gerbera, daisy, star, gladiolus, different variants of rose, lilly, carnation and orchids. The market is however dominated by marigold and nearly 75 per cent of the business is of this yellow flower followed by rose and other variants. Mohd Naeem, who comes from Khadra every day, says, “Currently, the price of genda phool ki ladi is between ₹8-10 per meter which on Diwali can go to ₹20 or even 50 per meter depending on demand and supply ratio. Diwali pe koi daam nahi hota hai. Retailers who buy from us at ₹20 a meter sell at ₹50-60 in plush areas.” Spread across the large expanse, on the majestic backdrop of Bada Imambara and Asifi Mosque, are huge piles of marigold flowers and both men and women making strings that are sold in length — both per meter and in kilos. A woman seller on anonymity says, “Jyadatar ladkiyan woh hai jo school ke lije nikalti hai aur 4-5 ghante mala banati hai. Har din ₹50-100 ke beech tak inka ban jata hai. Diwali wale din ₹1000-3000 sab kama lete as they double up as traders and make their own garland and sell directly.”Besides flowers there is a good range of leaves as well that are mixed with flowers to make decorative bunch and bouquet which includes manokamna leaves, China patti, golden, morpankhi, ferns and many more. “The main reason for these sellers making good money on Diwali is that common retailers too come to pick up fresh stuff. So, even if we charge little extra to them it’s still very economical for buyers from their respective area,” says Talib Mansoori. Young Pinku with his aunt Pooja comes from Sindhauli (50 kms) every day. “We have own farming and buy from market as well. For Diwali we lend money on interest but make good money also. Suppose if we daily earn ₹200-300 profit and in two-days of Diwali we can make ₹10,000 or even more,” says Pooja. Muneshwar Prashad a farmer from Mahilabad brings 50-60 kgs of marigold every day. “Navratri se acchi bazaar chali rahi hai. Ab December main sahalag tak bahut accha dhanda hoga.”Many have started preparing for the Diwali rush as people start decoratinfrom the festival of Dhanteras. “We make strips and keep in cold storage as marigold had good shelf life. But, for puja we don’t sell kept stuff as for prayers we need fresh flowers,” says Abbas, a whole seller and adds if someone smells flower, we throw it away as it can’t be offered in prayers then!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/flowerpower-diwali-lifts-spirits-all-eyes-now-on-sahalag-101635703526055.html
31-10-2021||Noida||Mihir Bhoj row in Greater Noida: Gurjars say they will not celebrate Diwali||Members of the Gurjar community from different villages on Sunday called a mahapanchayat at the Mihir Bhoj PG College in Greater Noida’s Dadri, and decided to not celebrate Diwali this year.The Gurjar community has been protesting against the alleged removal of their caste’s name from the plaque installed below the statue of king Mihir Bhoj that was inaugurated by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on September 22.On October 2, Gurjar leaders set a October 30 deadline for the Uttar Pradesh government to issue an apology to the community for the alleged removal of word ‘Gurjar’ from the plaque.The mahapanchayat was organised under the banner ‘Gurjar Swabhiman Sangharsh Samiti’, and it was attended by nearly 200 people.Ravindra Bhati, national vice president of Akhil Bhartiya Gurjar Parishad, and convener of the programme, said that members of the Gurjar community are “unhappy” over the turns of events.“The samiti has decided to not celebrate Diwali this year, and we also urge the Gurjar community to boycott the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming assembly elections,” Bhati said.After the meeting, the samiti issued a 10-point resolution, including their demand that the Jewar airport be named after King Mihir Bhoj and a huge statue of former Dadri province king Raja Umrao Singh be installed there.In the last few weeks, leaders of the Gurjar community visited different villages to mobilise the people to participate in the programme. However, some Gurjar leaders, who were earlier leading the campaign, were absent at the programme on Sunday.The president of Akhil Bhartiya Veer Gurjar Mahasabha, Gautam Budh Nagar, Shyam Singh Bhati -- who was booked for allegedly smearing black paint on CM Adityanath’s name on the Mihir Bhoj’s plaque on September 28 this year -- said that he did not attend the programme.A row started after some people allegedly removed the word ‘Gurjar’ from the plaque. On September 28, some people also smeared with black paints names of CM Adityanath and other BJP leaders on the plaque in protest. Following the incident, a case was filed against some unknown persons at the local police station and 150 people were booked.Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Dadri police station, said that the police allowed the Sunday programme on the condition that only 200 people attend it. “A number of police personnel were deployed at the meeting venue, and the programme went off peacefully,” he said.Vijay Bhati, president of BJP’s Gautam Budh Nagar unit, said that he considered the organisers of the Sunday programme as “political opponents and not the public/voters”. “We have a good relationship with the people, and they will decide whom to vote for,” Bhati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mihir-bhoj-row-in-greater-noida-gurjars-say-they-will-not-celebrate-diwali-101635703404955.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for murder bid on brother’s son-in-law||A Dugri resident has been booked for attempt to murder after he attacked his elder brother’s son-in-law over a family dispute near Doraha on Friday night.The accused has been identified as Ashok Setia of Nirmal Nagar, Dugri.Complainant, Lalit Narang of Durgapuri, who is currently hospitalised, said there was a dispute between his wife and the accused, following which they had gone to see a lawyer in Chandigarh. On their way back home, the accused threatened Narang with a sharp-edged weapon and forced him to drive to an abandoned place. On reaching a secluded area, the accused snatched Narang’s phone and assaulted him with the sharp-edged weapon while accusing him of performing witchcraft of the former’s family. After Sethia left the spot, Narang borrowed a phone from a passerby and informed the police.On his complaint, police registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 384 (extortion), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. Doraha station house officer, sub-inspector Nachattar Singh said a hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-murder-bid-on-brother-s-soninlaw-101635703344689.html
31-10-2021||Noida||DMRC report suggests 7 Metro stations on route linking Greater Noida with Jewar airport||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has in its ‘inception report’ suggested seven stations on a new Metro corridor that will connect Pari Chowk at Greater Noida with the Noida International Airport at Jewar. The DMRC has suggested ‘fewer’ stations so that the travel time can be reduced between the two destinations, said officials. The DMRC has also suggested that the airport at Jewar be connected with Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport via New Delhi Metro station instead of Delhi’s Shivaji Stadium, said officials. On September 3 this year, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) signed a memorandum of understanding with the DMRC, asking the latter to prepare a feasibility report of a Metro corridor that will provide direct connectivity between Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport and the upcoming Noida International Airport at Jewar, and another corridor connecting Greater Noida to Jewar, said officials aware of the matter. “In its inception report, the DMRC has suggested that there will be only seven Metro stations between Jewar and Greater Noida so that the travel time is less. The DMRC informed us the lines on which they are chalking out the detailed project report that will be completed and submitted in the next three months,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of YEIDA.According to the inception report, the first Metro station in the corridor linking Greater Noida with Jewar will be Pari Chowk, followed by Sector Tech Zone, Sector 22-D, Sector 18, Sector 20, Sector 28, the last station being the Noida airport at Jewar. The corridor will be 35.6km long and will run parallel to the Yamuna expressway. According to initial estimates, at least 17,000 passengers can use the Metro facility if the corridor comes up by 2024, around the same time when the Noida airport is also expected to begin operations. The Yeida has given its green signal to the DMRC for changing the alignment of the Metro corridor that will connect Greater Noida with Delhi airport. “In its previous plan, the DMRC suggested that Jewar airport can be connected to IGI airport via Greater Noida and Shivaji Stadium. But now, they want to connect it via New Delhi Metro station and we have approved this plan,” said Singh.“The new Metro corridor from Pari Chowk towards Yamuna bank will be at an elevation and run parallel to the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. The DMRC has suggested an underground corridor for connecting Yamuna Bank to New Delhi Metro station but nothing is final as of now. The New Delhi Metro station is connected with the Express Line that goes till the IGI airport. We will work further on this project only once the feasibility report is submitted,” said Singh.The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited--a special purpose vehicle set up to undertake the Noida International Airport at Jewar--has already started work on the boundary wall and levelling work at the airport that is expected to be ready by 2024. Yeida officials said they are trying to ensure if the Metro link and the Jewar airport can be readied at the same time. They said the financial modalities will be finalised once the project report is ready.The estimated cost of the Noida International Airport is said to be around ₹20,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dmrc-report-suggests-7-metro-stations-on-route-linking-greater-noida-with-jewar-airport-101635703225049.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 20-year-old booked for abducting, raping minor for over a month||A 20-year-old man has been booked for allegedly abducting a minor girl and raping her for over a month, before abandoning her in Mirzapur of Uttar Pradesh.The accused has been identified as Sohail of Kishanganj, Bihar.The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of the 17-year-old victim’s mother. The complainant said the accused lived in their locality and used to visit their house often. Over time, he befriended her daughter. On September 16, the accused abducted the teen on the pretext of marriage and took her to Uttar Pradesh. He raped her for over a month and fled after leaving her in Mirzapur. After that, the teen contacted her family through phone following which they brought her home. The teen initially did not disclose the entire matter to the family but after the accused started threatening her over phone, she confided in them.Following this, the teen’s mother lodged a complaint. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surinderpal Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366-A (procuration of minor girl) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused and a hunt is on for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-20-year-old-booked-for-abducting-raping-minor-for-over-a-month-101635703105509.html
31-10-2021||Bhopal||2 teachers among 6 held with leopard hide, nails in Madhya Pradesh||Six people, including two teachers, were arrested while they were trying to sell a leopard hide and nails of the animal near Jhabua district in Madhya Pradesh, an official said. Following a tip off, a joint team of the state Tiger Strike Force, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and Special Task Force (STF) of police on Saturday nabbed the accused from Petlawad-Rajod road in the western part of the state, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Alok Kumar said in a statement. A leopard hide and six nails of the feline were seized from their possession, he said, adding that two of those caught are teachers. Six mobile phones, a four-wheel vehicle and two motorbikes used in the illegal trade were also seized from them, he said. A case was registered against the accused under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, he said. The accused included four residents of Alirajpur and two from Dhar district, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/2-teachers-among-6-held-with-leopard-hide-nails-in-madhya-pradesh-101635702569045.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||30 more cases of dengue reported in Ludhiana||As many as 30 cases of dengue cases were reported from the district on Sunday. With this, the total count of confirmed dengue cases in the district has reached 1,228.Of the 30 new cases, 28 were reported from Ludhiana city areas, including MIG Flats, Bahadur Ke Road, Civil Lines, Gill Road, Durgapuri, Haibowal Kalan, Nimwala Chowk, Shimlapuri, Rajguru Nagar, SBS Nagar, and BRS Nagar. Meanwhile, one case each was reported from Sahnewal and Sudhar.According to the daily reports, of total 1,228 total confirmed cases, 926 cases have been reported from the city alone, 48 from Jagraon, 39 from Khanna, 39 from Koom Kalan, 37 from Sahnewal, 31 from Sudhar, 21 from Sidhwan Bet, 19 from Pakhowal, 17 from Manupur, 14 from Malaud, 10 from Hathur, eight from Machhiwara, eight from Samrala, six from Raikot and five from Payal.As of now, a total of 3,060 suspected cases of dengue have been reported in the district this season.At present, around 528 patients are admitted in Ludhiana hospitals, of which 516 are admitted in private hospitals while 12 are in government. So far, 700 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30-more-cases-of-dengue-reported-in-ludhiana-101635702744547.html
31-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Covid hiatus: Passengers want hot cooked meals in trains again||With the decline in Covid-19 cases and most trains back on track, passengers are demanding resumption of catering services in the trains.The Northern Railways’ Twitter account also received a few requests about the resumption of the cooked food supply. The service was suspended as a measure to contain the spread of the pandemic.A few people also reached out to the railway officials in Ludhiana complaining about the hiatus on catering services imposed by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).“The passengers travelling in luxury trains including Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi contended that when the trains have resumed, and everything is back on track, the railway should also start serving food included in the cost of the fare,” said a senior railway official here.A Twitter handle, Anand Hindu, criticized the Northern Railways for not serving meals, soup, and snacks in the trains. He ironically suggested the Railways to not spend much on the pantries in the trains as no food is served to the passengers.Naming an airline, he further tweeted that even airlines have started the hot veg meals for domestic economy class passengers, and thus railways should follow the same.Find packed food expensiveFor now, the rail commuters are getting packed food which according to them, is quite expensive.“I don’t see any problem in serving normal hot food in the trains now. The packed food which is not even included in the fare is so expensive. I bought packed vegetarian biryani for ₹155 during my trip from Ludhiana to Delhi in Vande Bharat. The taste and the quantity disappointed me. Railways should resume serving fresh hot meals in the trains now,” said Akshay Salwan, a resident of Nehru Nagar. Tarun Kumar, station director, Ludhiana, said the packed food is served to keep the commuters safe and prevent the spread of Covid-19.“In case the person who is cooking the food in bulk gets Covid, the infection will be transmitted to all the passengers. Thus, packed food is the safest option,” said Kumar.A senior railway official said that the railway minister is soon going to hold a meeting in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-covid-hiatus-passengers-want-hot-cooked-meals-in-trains-again-101635702564552.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Rain helps Delhi see best air quality in 4 years, even as few areas show concern||Owing to record rainfall in Delhi in October, the national capital has witnessed its best air quality in a single month in four years, news agency PTI reported on Sunday.As reported by Hindustan Times earlier in the day, the city is yet to record a “very poor” air quality index this month. However, forecasters from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) cautioned against the air quality worsening and likely entering the “very poor” category from Sunday onwards. According to data available on the CPCB website, more than four stations of the government agency in the national capital are already experiencing “very poor” air quality. The AQI in Anand Vihar at 9pm on Sunday was 360, in Chandni Chowk at 340, in Jahangirpuri at 377, and in NSIT Dwarka at 338, among other stations.“Wind speeds might slow down from Sunday and this would adversely impact the city’s air quality,” a senior IMD official said.Delhi recorded 87.9mm of rainfall between October 17 and 18 – the fourth highest in a day ever in October, and the highest since 1956, when the national capital received 111mm rain, as per IMD data.The PTI report also mentioned that stubble burning and its share in Delhi’s PM 2.5 pollution remained low owing to heavy rainfall. Typically, air quality in the city starting November commences to deteriorate supremely, systematically reaching to “severe” category every year, due to stubble burning in neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | Capital just 30mm rainfall away from eclipsing all-time recordIn October, Delhi has recorded three “satisfactory” AQI days as against none in 2020, four in 2019, and none again in 2018. Moreover, the city witnessed as many as 19 “moderate” AQI days as opposed to six each in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Also, the eight “poor” AQI days the national capital saw this month was the lowest in October in three years.Notably, an AQI from zero and 50 is termed as “good”, 51 and 100 as “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 as “moderate”, 201 and 300 as “poor”, 301 and 400 as “very poor”, and 401 and 500 as “severe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-helps-delhi-see-best-air-quality-in-4-years-even-as-few-areas-show-concern-101635701989831.html
31-10-2021||Gurugram||Two-kilometre link between Artemis Road, Brig Osman Chowk to be revamped by December||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will start reconstructing a key two-kilometre-long internal road linking Artemis Road and Brigadier Osman Chowk (at the sector 56/57 traffic light) from December, officials said on Sunday, a day after the civic body floated a ₹1.88-crore tender for the project.The unnamed stretch is one of the most important arterial roads of the city as it is accessed by thousands of commuters daily, to bypass the busy Golf Course Extension (GCER).The road helps residents of sectors 49, 50, 51 and 52 bypass the traffic on GCER and Vikas Marg, and head directly towards Huda City Centre, Golf Course Road and the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road. Similarly, residents of sectors 42, 43, 53, 54, 55 and 56 (located along the Golf Course Road) use it to head directly towards Artemis Road, Nirvana Country and Vikas Marg, by bypassing the heavily congested GCER.Despite its importance, the road is in a heavily degraded condition and riddled with potholes.“The project essentially involves recarpeting the entire stretch. The bids for the tender will be opened on November 15 and subsequently, a contractor will be selected within 10 days. We are aiming to start and finish the work within December,” Sunder Sheoran, the executive engineer of MCG, who floated the tender on behalf of the civic body, said.Sheoran said that once the project commences on the ground, it will take the contractor around three weeks to complete the work. In the tender, the MCG has given the contractor a maximum period of six months to complete the project from the date of allotment.According to residents, the stretch has degraded further during the recent monsoon season.“The stretch is in dire need of repairs as it is heavily potholed, which results in traffic congestion. Despite its condition, thousands of daily commuters continue to access the stretch as it helps them avoid travelling through busy stretches, such as GCER, and save around 10 minutes of travelling time. If the road is in an optimal condition, it will help commuters save another five minutes of travel time,” Saurabh Vikas, a resident of Sector 57, said.Last week, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja set a deadline of November 15 for the civic body officials to fix all roads in the city. Last month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also issued a similar directive to Gurugram’s public agencies, to fix all road stretches damaged during monsoon by November 30.“The MCG aimed to complete the reconstruction project before the November 15 deadline. However, due to technical issues in the original tender, there was a delay and the tender had to be prepared afresh,” a senior MCG official, who did not wish to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/twokilometre-link-between-artemis-road-brig-osman-chowk-to-be-revamped-by-december-101635702208603.html
31-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Malakpur dirt track a first in Punjab||To promote the motorcycling sport, a group of local bikers has built Punjab’s first ‘Dirt Park’ in Malakpur, Ludhiana.The park, built on private property, is spread over two acres of land and has been designed by expert riders.A motorcycle sport event, ‘Ludhiana scramble’, was held to mark the inaugural ceremony of the biking track in which over 50 professional bike riders across the north region including, Manali, Chamba, Dehradun, and Chandigarh, competed in three categories including novice, expert, and open bike.The event included a 2-km cross country section and 2.5 laps of the 450m track.Navneet Sangar, a participant from Kurukshetra, who works with an IT company, said, “It is amazing as there is no other such track in Punjab or the neighbouring states. The bikers didn’t have much free space to practice. This will also help make people more aware about this sport.”Another participant, Harpreet Dhiman of Chandigarh, said that it is a dangerous and expensive sport and thus needs proper training.“It is an opportunity for the Ludhiana bikers to avail the benefits and improve their skills,” said Dhiman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-malakpur-dirt-track-a-first-in-punjab-101635702145741.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||SP MLA quits Uttar Pradesh assembly, blames BJP government for non-cooperation||Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh resigned from the Uttar Pradesh assembly on Sunday and blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government for his step. Singh, who represented Gauriganj (Amethi) in the assembly, alleged that he was not able to address public issues and keep promises made to the people because of the non-cooperation of the state’s BJP government. The resignation did not come as a surprise as he had threatened to quit at a press conference on Saturday. After his resignation on Sunday, he sat on fast at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Lucknow’s Hazratganj area. “Today, I met speaker of UP legislative assembly Hriday Narayan Dikshit and gave my resignation,” he said to reporters at the dharna spot. Accusing the BJP government of peddling lies, he said that he had raised some public issues with the government which had assured him of fulfilling them but did not actually do so. “I am finding myself incapable of fulfilling my public responsibilities under the present government. Thus, there is no point in my being a member of the present Vidhan Sabha,” he wrote in the one-page resignation letter. Singh also said: “The government is telling lies. Hence, there is no point in sitting in the House. Officials are weakening the democratic system and do not follow the directions of the elected government.” Mentioning the repair of two damaged roads in his constituency, Singh said, “On February 25, the government had assured the House that the damaged roads will be repaired within three months, but the work has not started till now.” “On October 2, I submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate of Amethi that if the repair of the two roads does not start, I will resign from the membership of the UP Legislative Assembly and sit on a fast. Despite this, the work did not start,” he added. Speaker Dikshit told PTI, “MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh met me today and submitted his resignation letter. The matter will be examined as per rules and a decision will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-mla-quits-uttar-pradesh-assembly-blames-bjp-government-for-noncooperation-101635702144517.html
31-10-2021||Other||Plan to create local guides for Harike fails to take off||Bathinda Two years after the Punjab wildlife department mooted a plan to rope in members of the rural community as guides to promote tourism at the Harike Wetland and Bird Sanctuary, the ambitious project has failed to take off.The then tourism minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had mooted the idea to make Harike an important tourism destination of Punjab, while clubbing a tourist circuit comprising the Golden Temple and the historic Saragarhi Gurdwara in Ferozepur.Ferozepur divisional forest officer (wildlife) Nalin Yadav said the authorities were unable to find suitable individuals for the task. He said a team of the state wildlife officials was trained in August this year as master trainers by professionals from Karnataka, but things did not proceed further.“A person with some basic understanding of details, including the scientific names of flora and fauna, can deliver to visiting birdwatchers. The department is ready for capacity building, but no youth in or around Harike has been found suitable for the job,” Yadav addedSpread over 4,100 hectare on the Ferozepur-Tarn Taran border, Harike is a rare biodiversity hot-spot in Punjab that attracts thousands of birds from abroad and other Indian states. The wetland is located where Sutlej and Beas rivers merge, with the sanctuary at the spot where Majha, Malwa and Doaba regions of Punjab meet.Sources said as it attracts birdwatchers every year, an organised group of well-trained guides might help in improving the economics of the local area and ensure better protection of the area.“Harike has immense scope for ecotourism, but it lacks promotion plans. In June 2018, then tourism minister Sidhu (now Punjab Congress president) had drawn up a blueprint to tap tourism potential at the underdeveloped site. It was proposed that Harike would be taken as a link between the adjoining major religious site of Amritsar with the international border and historic spots in Ferozepur. The proposal, however, did not see coordinated efforts to make it work,” an official with the forest department said. Official sources said the wetland is facing problems, including encroachments, drainage of untreated and toxic industrial effluents of cities into it. Besides being home to thousands of migratory and local migratory populations of avians, it is also a natural habitat for several species of turtles, snakes and fish.Congress MLA from Ferozepur City Parminder Singh Pinky said efforts were on to attract visitors to Ferozepur disitrict that houses a memorial, where legendary freedom fighters Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were cremated.“Infrastructure is being created in Ferozepur for convenience of tourists to the historic gurdwara built in the memory of 21 Sikh soldiers of the Saragarhi battle fought during the British period in 1897. Retreat ceremony by soldiers at India-Pakistan border at Hussaniwala is also being promoted as a tourist must-do,” said Pinky, who has been instrumental refurbishing these projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plan-to-create-local-guides-for-harike-fails-to-take-off-101635702024621.html
31-10-2021||Other||Two parking staff arrested for beating up man in Noida Sector 18 market||Two employees of a parking lot at Noida’s Sector 18 market were arrested on Sunday evening for allegedly beating up a 30-year-old man over some parking issue. The suspects were identified as Lokendra, 25, a native of Tappal, and Jatin, 26, from Bulandshahr. The two staff worked under a contractor in the parking lot, police said. The victim, Chandan Kumar, is a resident of Mahagun Manor in Noida’s Sector 50.Munish Chauhan, SHO of Sector 20 police station, said that Kumar had parked his car in the Sector 18 parking lot at 4pm. “He went for shopping and when he returned after sometime, he found that the parking staff used a wheel clamp lock on his car. This led to an argument and the two staff allegedly slapped him,” he said. Local people rushed to the spot and rescued the man, police said, adding that a video clip of the incident was also circulated on social media. SK Jain, president of Noida Sector 18 market association, said that the market is getting a number of shoppers due to the festival season. “Such unpleasant incidents will deter people from coming to the market, and we will not tolerate this. We have talked to the police officials and demanded action in this matter,” he said.Arun Malik, Sector 18 police post in-charge, said that a non-cognisable report was registered against the two suspects under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of IPC. “The two suspects have been arrested. We have improved security in the market,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-parking-staff-arrested-for-beating-up-man-in-noida-sector-18-market-101635701604842.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||People have made up their minds to elect SP govt in 2022 UP Assembly polls: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed that all sections of people in Uttar Pradesh have made up their minds to bring his party to power in the state after the 2022 assembly elections.Addressing a public meeting in Hardoi, he said that Uttar Pradesh will get back on the path to prosperity after the SP returns to power.Taking a dig at the ruling BJP, Yadav said that the party has only one thing to do -- renaming works carried out by the previous SP government."The BJP is inaugurating all works done by the Samajwadi Party. 'Baba mukhyamantri' is an amazing chief minister who has not inaugurated any work done by his government," he said, referring to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.All sections of people have made up their minds to elect an SP government in the assembly elections, following which Uttar Pradesh will get back on the path to growth and prosperity, he added."The BJP is remembering the Iron Man of India, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, today. But if it walks on the path shown by Sardar Patel, then the three farm laws, which it has enacted, should be withdrawn. This will be a true tribute to Patel," the SP chief said.Yadav said Patel fought for farmers and hence, is known as 'Sardar' and 'Iron Man'."The BJP claims that it is walking on the path shown by Sardar Patel, but today the farmers are the saddest," he said.Farmers' income has dipped, there is price rise and the way this government is functioning, every section of society is feeling insulted, he alleged.People across the country paid tributes to Patel on his 146th birth anniversary on Sunday. He was born on October 31, 1875 at Nadiad in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/people-have-made-up-their-minds-to-elect-sp-govt-in-2022-up-assembly-polls-akhilesh-yadav-101635699831441.html
31-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Road safety month begins from Nov 1||The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police will launch the road safety month from November 1, aimed at raising awareness among the public about the traffic rules. Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic police observe November as safety month every year. “We have planned various initiatives in November. We will visit different schools and colleges and organise programmes to create awareness about traffic rules among students. We will also conduct enforcement and ensure all the motorcycle riders wear helmets. The pillion riders are also required to wear helmet, otherwise they will be fined,” he said. The inauguration programme will be held at the commissionerate office in Noida’s Sector 108 on Monday.The officials said that they will also engage some people to volunteer with the traffic police in managing traffic on busy roads. The traffic personnel will also be provided training at a private hospital to know what to do as the first respondent to an accident victim, they said. The state government has already announced to pay ₹2,000 to the good Samaritans who help road accident victims reach hospital and save lives. Saha said the police will not question the good Samaritans who help the road accident victims. “We will reward them for their noble works,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-road-safety-month-begins-from-nov-1-101635701184680.html
31-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: ₹12 crore for improving Dadri road||The Greater Noida authority has decided to spend ₹12 crore on a one-km stretch of the Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road to deal with waterlogging problems during the monsoon. The commuters using the road have been complaining of traffic congestion between Kulesra and Sector Ecotech 3 due to the waterlogging at these two points. The 30-km DSC road, also known as Dadri road, begins from Noida-Delhi border at Sector 14A and ends at Dadri after passing through Greater Noida. Dozens of residential and industrial areas are located along this route. The authority’s chief executive officer, Narendra Bhooshan, has approved a plan that suggests making channels so that rainwater can be emptied into Hindon river.“We have approved a fund of ₹12 crore to resolve the waterlogging issue, so that the commuters do not face inconvenience. The authority will soon float a tender to hire an agency for the project,” said Bhooshan.According to the officials, the authority will spend ₹4.66 crore on laying of water pipeline from Kulesra to Haldoni, where it will empty the water into Hindon, and ₹7.34 crore will be spent on construction of four sump wells in Sector Ecotech 3.“During rainy season when waterlogging takes place, these four sump wells will help drain out the water into Hindon river,” said AK Arora, general manager of the authority.Residents said that they have been complaining of this issue for a long time. “The authority has been promising action on the waterlogging issue for the past several years, but nothing has happened. We hope that the issue will be addressed this time,” said Pawan Chaudhary, a resident of Kulesra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-12-crore-for-improving-dadri-road-101635700885078.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Coastal Road: BMC yet to pay forest department ₹74 crore for marine conservation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has not fully complied with the terms of coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance granted to its coastal road project, as it is yet to deposit at least ₹74 crore with the state forest department for “conservation of coastal and marine biodiversity”. As per a special condition laid down by the union environment ministry’s CRZ expert appraisal committee in 2017, the BMC is required to pay the Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra 2% of the project cost to offset the Coastal Road’s environment impact.Officials in the BMC’s coastal roads department, including the chief engineer, deputy chief engineer and executive engineer, did not respond to calls seeking comment on Sunday.Officials in the state forest department’s mangrove cell, however, confirmed that the BMC is yet to pay this amount in entirety. They also said that the BMC has not officially conveyed to the forest department their total cost of the project as on date, making it difficult to exact the payable amount as per updated project costs.“We have asked the BMC to deposit ₹254 crore with us, which is two percent of the total project cost of about ₹12,700 crore, based on newspaper reports. I do not know how much the total project cost is because the BMC has never intimated us about the same,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell. Of the ₹254 crore, the BMC has so far deposited only ₹150 crore, despite it being mandatory for the entire amount to be paid “on or before commencement of construction”.In 2017, when the project cost was estimated to ₹5,303 crore, the forest department had written to the BMC in June that year asking the latter to deposit a sum of ₹106.6 crore as per the conditions of the CRZ clearance. Of this, the BMC deposited an initial tranche of ₹25 crore on June 12, 2019. Due to escalation of the project cost, the amount to be paid toward coastal and marine conservation has also increased. In October 2020, Tiwari wrote to the environment department with the subject “Non-compliance of... CRZ clearance awarded to MCGM for Mumbai Coastal Road project”.Soon after the MCZMA allowed the additional land to be reclaimed (on December 2) in a post-facto approval, the BMC deposited another tranche of ₹150 crore with the Mangrove Foundation on December 11, 2020, leaving an outstanding of ₹74 crore. The entire amount is to be added to the corpus fund of the Mangrove Foundation, which generates a certain amount of interest every year that is used in running the organisation (which is an autonomous society under the state forest department). “This is a clear violation of the terms of the CRZ clearance, which clearly said that the amount should have been deposited before commencement of construction. The BMC has had to be reminded on multiple occasions, in June 2017 and then February 2019, to deposit the money. The BMC did not show any intention of paying the amount until they needed permission to reclaim additional land,” said Devendra Tandel, president of the Akhil Maharashtra Machimaar Kruti Samiti (AMMKS), who obtained these details via RTI last week.This alleged violation is the third in a string of non-compliances that fisherfolk and experts have highlighted in recent weeks, amid protests by Worli fisherfolk against the project. Over 100 boats from Worli Koliwada have been parked in the alignment of the Coastal Road-Sea Link interchange since early Saturday, disrupting construction work. Fishers have alleged that the project will cut them off from their customary fishing grounds and will force them to shut down Cleveland Bunder, an artisanal fishing port in Worli Koliwada which is at least a 100 years old and houses between 40 to 60 boats. They also say that movement of barges and tugboats in their customary waters has damaged over 60 fishing nets, each costing between ₹70,000 to 1,00,000, and disrupted their activities.In a letter to authorities including the chief minister on October 25, Koli community leaders from the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Vyavsay Sahakari Society (WKNVSS) wrote, “One of the specific conditions of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) clearance dated January 4, 2017, was as follows: ‘BMC to ensure that no fishing activity is hampered during construction and operation phase of the project’. Thereafter the final CRZ clearance dated May 11, 2017, was granted by the MoEFCC (Union environment ministry), subject to the following specific condition: ‘Bridges with navigable spans will be provided by the project proponent as committed, so that there are no obstructions to fishing boats’.”In an earlier development, the Akhil Maharashtra Machimaar Kruti Samiti (AMMKS), a state-wide fishworkers’ collective, which has pledged their support to Worli Koliwada’s fisherfolk, also took up this issue with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The latter had in March 2017 provided a no objection certificate (NOC) for the coastal road project to BMC, which is subject to compliance with 14 statutory conditions. “In the 14th condition, MSRDC clearly wrote that if fisherfolk are obstructed from doing their business, and if fisherfolk recorded any objections, it will be considered as violating the terms of the NOC,” said Devendra Tandel, president, AMMKS.The BMC has also been accused of violating the NOC given to the Coastal Road project by the fisheries department, which contains a similar clause. “Despite all these clearances, which assured fisherfolk that our livelihoods will not be impacted, what has transpired in reality is the complete opposite. We will continue our protest and not allow construction work to continue until our demands for a redesign of the coastal road-sea link interchange is met,” said Nitesh Patil, president, WKNVSS.A senior official in the fisheries department, however, said they are aware of the NOC violation by the BMC and will be deliberating on the matter in the next few days. “If there is a violation, an appropriate resolution will be found for the fishermen,” the official said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coastal-road-bmc-yet-to-pay-forest-department-74-crore-for-marine-conservation-101635699805783.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||33% land for bullet train project acquired in Maharashtra||The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has completed acquisition of 33% of land in Maharashtra for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor – the pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.As per the information provided by NHSRCL, of the 432 hectares (ha) of land required for the project in Maharashtra, 143ha or 33% of land has been acquired. In Gujarat, 1,084.48ha of the required 1,396ha has been acquired. In Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the acquisition is about 97%, with 933.52ha of the required 955ha been acquired for the corridor.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had earlier questioned if the bullet train project was of any benefit to the state. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had appeared “non-committal” on the project after coming to power in 2019.“Land acquisition is going on in Maharashtra and we are expecting to speed up the process and acquire more land in the coming months for the project,” said a senior NHSRCL official.By September, NHSRCL – the authority that will soon undertake the construction of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project – had acquired 30% of land in the state.To push the acquisition process, Union minister of state for railways, Raosaheb Danve, had visited Mumbai last month and interacted with senior officials from NHSRCL, Western Railway, collectors of Palghar, Raigad and Thane districts as well as state government officials. He had also directed the officials to work on increasing the pace of acquisition of the land.The construction work of the bullet train corridor project has started in Gujarat and the first phase between Surat and Bilimora is expected to open by 2026. Of the total 508.17km route of the bullet train, 155.76km is in Maharashtra, 384.04km is in Gujarat and 4.3 km is in Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The estimated cost of the project is ₹1.10 lakh crore, of which ₹88,000 crore will be funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/33-land-for-bullet-train-project-acquired-in-maharashtra-101635699804437.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Western Railways sets up infotainment screens in Mumbai local trains||In a bid to increase its revenue, the Western Railway (WR) has introduced infotainment screens in compartments of eight local trains.The project is part of a non-fare revenue scheme and around 20 local trains will be fitted with such infotainment screens in the coming future.The infotainment devices are LCD screens that have been placed inside the local train compartment that is displaying commercial advertisements along with awareness initiatives and information related to the people at large and railways.“The initiative has been taken under non-fare revenue model and will fetch the railways ₹65 lakh per annum and around ₹3.45 crore for a period of five years as per the contract. The feedback from the passengers has been positive and encouraging,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, WR.Earlier, the Central Railway (CR) had also planned to install infotainment hotspot devices that would enable passengers to view movies, soap operas, audio-video songs inside the local train compartments. The commuters will be able to stream movies, soap operas inside the compartment with the help of a mobile application.Presently, luxury trains are operating on the Indian Railways have pre-loaded infotainment device contents provided on LCD devices.The hotspot devices are also being introduced. The Railway Board, an apex body of all zonal railways, has issued directives to the 18 zones of Indian Railways to increase its revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/western-railways-sets-up-infotainment-screens-in-mumbai-local-trains-101635699744583.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya woman banker’s death: Two cops among three booked for abetment of suicide||A First Information Report (FIR) was registered against three people, including two police officers, under Section 306 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for abetment of suicide on Saturday night in connection with the death of a 30-year-old woman bank officer who was found hanging in her rented accommodation in Khawaspura area of Ayodhya district late on Friday night, said senior police officials here on Sunday.While answering media queries over allegations against two police officers mentioned in the victim’s suicide note, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ayodhya, Shailesh Pandey said three names were mentioned in the note and that the city Kotwali police had registered the FIR against them on the complaint of the victim’s family. He said the exact reason for her alleged suicide could not be ascertained and further probe into the matter was going on.The SSP said the woman’s body was brought down in the presence of her family members and videography of the entire proceedings had been done. He said the body was later handed over to the woman’s family after its post-mortem examination. The hand written note recovered from the woman’s room had been seized for its forensic examination, he added.In the FIR, the victim’s family alleged that the victim’s marriage was fixed with one Vivek Gupta but she cancelled it after discovering that he had some habits. Still, Gupta used to make calls to her over phone and trouble her, they alleged. They said the woman had held responsible Gupta and two police officers for her extreme step.The woman (now deceased) had been working with the Punjab National Bank since 2017 and had been living in a rented house in Ayodhya. She belonged to Rajajipuram locality in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-woman-banker-s-death-two-cops-among-three-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide-101635699144481.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Run 2021: People in large numbers take part in event||People in large numbers participated in the “Lucknow Run half marathon-2021”, the third edition of the event, held at GD Goenka Public School here on Sunday. Organised by “The Centrum”, an urban lifestyle club, in association with Krida Bharti, Uttar Pradesh, the event was in in four categories of 21, 10, 5 km and 3 km.“Through this event, we want to spread the message of good health and prosperous lifestyle among people. One of the main objectives of this half marathon is to promote the culture of sports in the country and also to make them aware of ensuring the good health of their surroundings and environment,” said Sarvesh Goel, organiser of the “Lucknow Run” and managing partner of “The Centrum”.While the 21-km half marathon started at 5:30am, 10-km run at 6am and 5 km and 3 km fun runs got under way at 7am. The 21-km half marathon was flagged off by ADG police Lucknow, Binod Singh while the 10-km run was flagged off by ADG, Lucknow zone, SN Sabat and additional chief secretary Anil Kumar.The 5-km and 3-km fun runs were flagged off by BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh; UP minister Swati Singh; MLC Avanish Kumar Singh and commissioner, Lucknow division, Ranjan Kumar. More than a thousand people took part in ‘Lucknow Run 2021’. All the winners and participants too were awarded medals and certificates.
31-10-2021||Mumbai||50% of IAS to be women; men should not be without jobs: Maharashtra governor||In a statement that is likely to spark controversy, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has said that he predicts that in the next two-three decades, 50% of India’s bureaucrats would be women. He also expressed “concern” that men would be “without jobs” and could get involved in “destructive” activities. The governor was addressing vice-chancellors and senior professors at the convocation ceremony of Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth last week, where he also added that there needs to be a “balance” in the society.“Earlier, we saw that girls were behind and we had to bring them ahead, so we made efforts. Even today, we say educate the girl [through programmes such as] ‘Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao’. In reality, we can see that girls are doing a good job today. It’s my prediction, and I have shared it with many people, that in the next 20-30 years, 50% of IAS [officers] will be women due to their sincerity. It shouldn’t be so that our young boys are without jobs, [they] shouldn’t get into destructive things. A balance must remain [in the society], and we must think on these lines,” the governor said, while addressing the convocation ceremony last week.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Raj Bhavan have been at loggerheads over several issues in the past two years. The ruling MVA is likely to use Koshyari’s statement to trouble him. Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) chairperson Rupali Chakankar said that the body would study the statement made by the governor and decide if any action is required.“The progress of women and girls is a matter of pride and needs to be encouraged. I think the state women commission will minutely study the statement made by the governor. We will then think if any action is required,” she said. Chakankar added that the governor’s statement was “disappointing”. “We in public life try to change the opinion of society on such issues. If such a statement came from the governor, then it’s disappointing. Don’t understand why women are repeatedly regarded as secondary citizens through such statements,” she told a regional news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/50-of-ias-to-be-women-men-should-not-be-without-jobs-maharashtra-governor-101635698424279.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Restaurant owner dies days after being shot at in UP’s Lucknow||Three days after he was allegedly shot at and injured by two people over some reasons yet to be ascertained, a 47-year-old restaurateur succumbed to his injuries at the trauma centre of King George’s Medical University here on Sunday morning, police said.The victim, Jaswinder Singh aka Romi, ran a restaurant, Chik Chik, which served non-vegetarian food. He was shot at and injured by two car-borne assailants at the cash counter of his restaurant located in Chander Nagar area under Alambagh police station on Wednesday midnight, said assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Alambagh, DK Singh.He further said a First Information Report (FIR) under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged against the two people identified as Neeshu and Jaspreet on the basis of the victim’s statement given to police before his death.As per the ACP, Romi had suffered a bullet wound on his chest and had been undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of King George Medical University since then. He said the FIR would now be altered into the IPC Section 302 for murder. He said two suspects had been taken into custody and efforts were on to arrest the attackers.Another police officer privy to the investigation said the police had recovered two empty shells from the crime scene and collected the footage of the CCTV installed at the restaurant in which the incident had been recorded.“Before his death, Romi had mentioned the names of Neeshu and Jaspreet in his statement. Neeshu is said to be illegal liquor supplier while Jaspreet runs a medicine shop,” he said and added that “The exact reason behind the attack is still not ascertained.”The officer said three teams, including the crime team of deputy commissioner of police, central and electronic surveillance teams had been deployed to trace the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/restaurant-owner-dies-days-after-being-shot-at-in-up-s-lucknow-101635697824218.html
31-10-2021||Other||Punjab must review meagre relief for cotton growers: Sukhbir||Mohali Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday asked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to review the meagre compensation offered to cotton growers, whose entire crop had been destroyed by Pink Bollworm attack. “Farmers have been demanding a compensation of ₹50,000 per acre, but the Congress government is offering a measly compensation of only ₹2,000 for up to 35% crop damage and ₹5,400 for up to 75% crop damage. The officials also want to ensure they put maximum farmers in this category. This effectively means that even a meagre compensation of ₹12,000 per acre for 100% crop damage will not be available to farmers,” Sukhbir, in town for a road show, from the Siswan T-point to the Marble Market in Mullanpur along with party candidate from Kharar Ranjit Singh Gill. Prem Singh Chandumajra accompanied him. Sukhbir also criticised Channi for failing to even register a protest against the appointment of 1984 genocide perpetrator Jagdish Tytler to a top Congress panel. Asserting that the Congress government had not only back-stabbed cotton farmers, Sukhbir alleged that even farm labourers had been cheated. “The government has defrauded farm labourers by offering them 10% of the total compensation award. No frame work has been made for distribution of this award. We reject this injustice with farm labourers and demand that they be given flat compensation of ₹15,000 per acre.”The SAD president also asked the CM to leave photo-ops and start working for the welfare of the people. “You have only two months at your disposal. You should use them to mitigate the suffering of the people and implement the promises made by your party. Instead of doing this, you are solely indulging in publicity gimmicks.” Interacting with a cross-section of people in Kharar, Sukhbir said it was astonishing that in spite of proximity to Chandigarh, the town did not have all modern amenities. In Nayagaon, he announced that it would be developed on the pattern of New Chandigarh by making it a part of the new township, if the SAD-BSP alliance came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-must-review-meagre-relief-for-cotton-growers-sukhbir-101635697465579.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi attacks BJP government over Lakhimpur Kheri, Gorakhpur incidents||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday reiterated a series of poll promises and lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that claimed eight lives on October 3. She also raked up the Kanpur realtor murder case in Gorakhpur in September and the alleged shortage of fertilizers in Lalitpur.The Congress leader was addressing her party’s pratigya rally in Gorakhpur on the 37th anniversary of the assassination of her grandmother and former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.“You may have seen (it) time and again. In Lucknow, Vivek Tiwari was shot dead by police. In Gorakhpur, Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta was brutally murdered by police. Neither criminals nor policemen are under control here in UP,” she said.(Apple executive Vivek Tiwari was allegedly shot by constable Prashant Chaudhary near Maqdoompur police outpost, under Gomti Nagar police station limits, in Lucknow on the intervening night of September 28-29 in 2018 when he was in an SUV with an ex-colleague. On September 27, 2021, Kanpur-based realtor Manish Gupta died after a police raid on a Gorakhpur hotel. Six policemen were booked for murder after the Gorakhpur incident.)Priyanka, who greeted the crowd in Bhojpuri, also said, “Things have happened against the ‘vaani’ (teachings) of Guru Gorakhnath.”Guru Gorakhnath is worshipped at the Gorakhnath temple of which Yogi Adityanath is the chief priest.She alleged there was harassment of all sections of the society, including dalits and backwards under the BJP government. Inflation has made survival difficult for people and farmers are debt ridden, she alleged.She also criticised the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) over charges that the Congress was in league with the BJP.Priyanka questioned the “silence” of both the parties and their absence from the ground. The Congress alone was fighting for the poor and the oppressed, she said.“I will die but I won’t ever tie up with the BJP,” she said.She also attacked Union home minister Amit Shah for his recent remark that law and order under the Yogi government has improved to an extent that now binoculars are needed to search criminals. “When Shah was saying this who was standing by him on stage? It was (Union minister of state for home) Ajay Mishra whose son unleashed brutality on farmers in Lakhimapur Kheri. So, he doesn’t need binoculars but the right spectacles,” she said. Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, was arrested on October 9.Reaching out to the Nishad community, she announced that a university would be set up in Gorakhpur named after Guru Machhendra Nath and fisheries will be given the status of agriculture if the Congress is voted to power.She reiterated the Congress would give 40% of the party tickets to women in the UP assembly polls. The party has pledged to provide jobs to 20 lakh (0.2 million) youths, free smart phones to class 12 pass girls and free scooties to graduate girls, besides promising to waive farmers’ loans.“The entire loans of the farmers will be waived. Wheat and paddy will be purchased at ₹2,500 per quintal, while sugarcane will be purchased at ₹400 per quintal. The problem of stray cattle will be resolved on the lines of Chhattisgarh, and a complete solution will be evolved,” she said.The Congress general secretary added that government jobs will be given to 20 lakh youths, while contractual workers will be regularised.The anganwadi workers will get an honorarium of ₹10,000, and women will get three free cylinders in a year, she promised.“Apart from this, if voted to power, our government will bear the cost of treatment of any illness up to ₹10 lakh,” she said. She also said that ₹25,000 will be given to families who have lost their livelihood due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-attacks-bjp-government-over-lakhimpur-kheri-gorakhpur-incidents-101635697464309.html
31-10-2021||Pune||SPPU to conduct offline examinations from next semester onwards||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct examinations “offline” for its next semester. This will be the first offline exams of the SPPU since pandemic started. Primary preparations have gun with a detailed plan to be drawn up for the offline exams. On December 15, an important meeting of the SPPU’s examination department will happen at which the detailed planning of the offline exams will be decided. The SPPU’s next semester commences from January 2022.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic all examinations held by the university have been online. Now as the state government has allowed college and university campuses to reopen for fully vaccinated students, exams will also have to given offline. “At a recent meeting held by the university about conducting offline exams for the next semester was discussed. It was unanimously decided to conduct it in offline mod. Detailed planning will start after the Diwali vacations,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. “Our next meeting will be held on December 15, where we will be taking a Covid review in the state and also of students in colleges. Accordingly, a further decision about how to conduct the exam will be taken. It will include for how many hours – one or two, oral examination or by multiple-choice questions (MCQs),” Kakade added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-to-conduct-offline-examinations-from-next-semester-onwards-101635696805479.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drug bust case : Munmun Dhamecha, Arbaaz Merchant walk out of jail too||Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha the two other accused who were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) along with actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan in the cruise drug bust case were released from Arthur Road jail and Byculla Women’s Prison, respectively, on Sunday.While the trio had been granted bail by the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday,Dhamecha and Merchant had to wait till Sunday to ensure that all formalities were completed. Aryan was released on Saturday. The HC had imposed 14 conditions for grant of bail. Dhamecha’s lawyers will be making an application before the NCB seeking permission for her to travel to Madhya Pradesh, her hometown.Inspector general of police (prison) Ankush Shinde said, “As soon as the paper works were completed Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha both were released”.Dhamecha’s lawyer Kaashif Khan said, “After the formalities of surety and legal paperwork were completed in the session court on Saturday, we got the release memo around 7.30pm and it was dropped in the letterbox at Byculla women’s prison on the same day. She was released around 11am from jail on Sunday”.“I am filing an application before the NCB seeking permission to allow her to travel to Delhi and Madhya Pradesh as per the condition from the Bombay high court. Her permanent hometown is in Madhya Pradesh, while she lives in Delhi,” the lawyer said.Her passport was already seized by NCB while they conducted a search at her Delhi house, added Khan.Superintendent Nitin Vychal of the Arthur Road jail said, “Arbaaz Merchant was released around 11:30am on Sunday from the jail after the paperwork was completed”.The HC had in its detailed order asked Aryan, Merchant and Dhamecha to appear before the NCB’s Mumbai office every Friday between 11am to 2pm to mark their presence. Khan said, “Now Dhamecha is staying in Mumbai and her brother’s friends are helping her as she has to report every Friday in the NCB office. But soon we will be filing an application for modification and relaxation of conditions in the HC order because she does not have a house here in Mumbai”.On Friday afternoon, the HC made available its operative order, in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan, Merchant and Dhamecha, stipulating their release on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each, with one or two sureties of the same amount.Arbaaz Merchant’s father advocate Aslam Merchant said, “My son was released from jail at 11:45am on Sunday. After coming out of jail Arbaaz’s first question was where was his mother?. His mother Aisha Merchant, 48, was waiting in the car about 25 meters away from the jail’s main gate, he then ran to the car and hugged her”.“Arbaaz has lost almost seven kilograms of weight during his confinement in jail. He is mentally fine but has anxiety problems. He was nervous on Saturday as he was stuck one more day after Aryan Khan was released” said Merchant. On October 2, the NCB officers stepped aboard a cruise ship anchored at the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate. Cordellia was set to make its way to Goa before 22 officers led by the agency’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede began to search passengers and rooms, based on a tip-off. The team apprehended 14 persons, including Aryan Khan, the 23-year-old son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha.The haul included multiple drugs: 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy). A sum of ₹1.33 lakh was also recovered from the cruise. Merchant purportedly admitted to carrying 6g of charas in a plastic pouch tucked away in his shoe.Later that evening, all 14 were brought to the NCB office at Ballard Pier in south Mumbai where NCB officers checked their WhatsApp chats, mobile call details and interrogated them for 12 hours. At 2pm on October 3, Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were put under arrest along with five others for alleged involvement in consumption, sale, purchase and attempt to commit an offence under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drug-bust-case-munmun-dhamecha-arbaaz-merchant-walk-out-of-jail-too-101635696804175.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||6 more Zika virus cases in Kanpur, CM asks for strict surveillance||Six more people tested positive for the Zika virus in Kanpur on Sunday taking the tally to 10 in the district. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the health department to ensure strict surveillance to check the spread of the disease, officials said.Instructing officials to increase the focus on controlling infectious diseases, the chief minister said frequent and extensive door-to-door sanitisation and fogging drives should be undertaken to stop the breeding of mosquitoes. “People should be made aware of the preventive measures and must be encouraged to maintain cleanliness,” Yogi Adityanath instructed during a high-level meeting with senior officials in Lucknow on Sunday.The tally has increased to 10 patients in Kanpur, confirmed Kanpur’s chief medical officer Nepal Singh.All of the fresh cases are among the civilians, unlike earlier when three of the four patients were Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel. One of the new patients is a pregnant woman, who has been put under round-the-clock observation.The Kanpur chief medical officer said the area within a three kilometre-radius of a fever patient’s location would be screened. The patient would be monitored for 14 days.“We have increased the sampling and the area to a radius of three km from the earlier two for our operations,” he said.The Uttar Pradesh government will further intensify comprehensive surveillance and implement stringent containment curbs on the breeding of mosquitoes, said a state government press statement.“Since the confirmation of the state’s first Zika virus case on October 22, the testing of samples at a large scale is being carried out to remove the risk of any further spread. So far, a total of 645 samples have been sent to KGMU. Of them, 253 samples have been collected from people with symptoms of fever, 103 samples are of pregnant women,” the statement said.“Out of 507 samples tested, only nine people have tested positive for Zika virus while one patient tested positive from the samples that were sent to NIV Pune. A total of 10 patients have been found infected with the Zika virus so far in Kanpur district of the state,” the statement added.The health department teams have found Zika breeding larva in a park just across the street from one of the patients in Shyam Nagar, Kanpur. He tested positive on Saturday along with two IAF personnel. This patient is in the decoration business and has travelled several times since he started complaining of fever, said the health officials.Additional director (health) GK Mishra said all necessary steps were being taken to contain the spread. Apart from the IAF station, Pokharpur, Pardevanpurwa, Shyam Nagar, Tiwaripur, Om Purwa, Adarsh Nagar, Jagai Purwa localities and parts of Jajmau in Kanpur were being rigorously screened, he said.“We have pointed out 117 mosquito breeding points in these localities and they all have been destroyed. Fifty Malaria control teams are constantly looking out for such points for source reduction,” said Singh.But the anti-larva spray wasn’t effective on the mosquitoes, said a member of the malaria control team.The health teams have found 70 people suffering from fever in Tiwaripur and nearby localities. All of them have been isolated in their houses, said the officials.The people were being advised strongly to use mosquito nets and look for mosquitoes and the places where they could breed. Teams of specialists camping in Kanpur have asked for strict observation of people suffering from fever and special care of pregnant women. At present, 70 teams are visiting 8,000 households with a checklist being used for screening.“People need to protect themselves from the mosquitoes and destroy the source of their breeding in their houses,” the CMO said.Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito named Aedes aegypti. According to the World Health Organisation, Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening.Meanwhile, in view of the Zika virus cases in Kanpur, health department teams have sent 84 more mosquitoes to National Malaria Research Institute (NMRI), New Delhi by the Shatabdi Express in special boxes. The scientists would genetically analyse these mosquitoes to learn the presence of the Zika virus in them and its lethality. Earlier, the genetic report of 34 mosquitoes caught in Pardevanpurwa and Pokharpur came out negative. These mosquitoes were netted inside the IAF station where the malaria control teams suspect the mosquitoes bred in the storage facility between two hangars. Chief medical officer, Nepal Singh, confirmed sending the mosquitoes to NMRI Delhi for a genetic study, which he said, was crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/6-more-zika-virus-cases-in-kanpur-cm-asks-for-strict-surveillance-101635696625784.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Three of family kill themselves in Vashi||A family of three, all three senior citizens, died by suicide in Vashi on Saturday, police said. According to the police, the three were struggling financially owing to a long, legal battle against their relatives and police. “We got a call on Saturday morning about three people from a family being in distress. We rushed them to a nearby hospital where they died one after the other through the day. No suicide note was found in the flat. In the statement, the son told us that they had consumed poison due to financial issues ,” Vashi police station senior inspector Pramod Todarmal said. The family had been fighting against their relative in court, whom they alleged owed them money. Alleging no action from the police against the relative, the family had threatened to kill themselves in 2012, following which the family was summoned by Vashi police. The family started a legal battle against the then officers from Vashi police station and also the Navi Mumbai police commissioner.According to a doctor, the family seemed to have consumed some tablets and a chemical analysis will further give clarity on what exactly was consumed.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-of-family-kill-themselves-in-vashi-101635696325002.html
31-10-2021||Patna||Bihar: Four policemen suspended, 5 home guards dismissed on charges of extortion||Four policemen of Bihar’s Saran district were suspended and five home guards dismissed on Sunday on charges of extorting sand truck drivers, superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said. The action was taken after a probe into a viral video that purportedly showed the policemen extorting sand truck drivers in Maker and Sonepue police station areas. Taking cognizance of the video, the SP ordered Madhura SDPO to investigate the matter.Investigation by the SDPO found that the video was made on October 26 but the SP got it on October 27.“ASI Dhirendra Singh, hawaldar Prayag Singh, constables Niranjan Singh and Kamlesh Yadav, and home guard Ashutosh Mishra were identified in the video. They were found to be extorting truck drivers illegally transporting sand,” the SP said in a statement.“In the course of investigation, it also came to light that without the presence of policemen, four home guard jawans Abshishek Kumar, Shiv Nandan Rai, Muktehswar Sah and Bhrigunath Rai followed trucks till Sadar police station, Hajipur area. They were taken hostage at Shiv Bacchan Chowk for three to four hours by sand mafia and anti-social elements who had gathered there,” the statement said.The SP said that on the basis of the SDPO’s report, ASI, Dhirendra Singh, hawaldar Prayag Singh and constables Niranjan Singh and Kamlesh Yadav were suspended with immediate effect. Home guard jawans Abhishek Kumar, Shiv Nandan Rai, Mukteshwar Sah, Bhrigunath Rai and Ashutosh Mishra have been dismissed from service. The SP also sought an explanation from SHOs of Maker and Sonepue police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharfour-policemen-suspended-5-home-guards-dismissed-on-charges-of-extortion-101635695556463.html
31-10-2021||Patna||Firm to contest LS polls alone, Bihar Congress to launch mega membership drive from today||Firm on contesting the next Lok Sabha elections on its own, the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) will launch a mega membership drive from Monday to reclaim its support base in the state, party leaders said.The party will strive to induct more than five million members during the drive that will continue till March next year, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma said on Sunday.“As declared by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das, the party will contest the 2024 LS on its own. We are now focused on rejuvenating our direct rapport with the people and garner their support on the issues of price rise, growing corruption and joblessness,” Sharma said.A senior party leader said the party managed to get more than 1.6 million members during the drive carried out in 2016, when Ashok Choudhary was the BPCC chief. “In 2020, the party launched a digital membership drive just before the assembly elections. However, it did not yield an encouraging result owing to technical glitches. This time, we have again resorted to manual operations to induct fresh members,” BPCC chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore said.A section of the party leaders, however, contended that the results of Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur bypolls would determine the fate of the party, which chose to contest the elections without a tie-up with the RJD. The alliance between the two parties broke up after the RJD unilaterally decided to field its candidates on both the seats, without consulting the Congress.The counting of votes for bypolls will be held on November 2.Former BPCC chief Anil Sharma said the Congress should carry out a vigorous drive to expand its bases, which got eroded over the years due to its excessive reliance on the RJD-led coalition. “It may take some time and require unrelenting efforts of the party workers to win over the people’s confidence, as it was for the fifth time when the RJD broke out of the coalition. Congress was first left to fend for itself by the RJD in 2000, then in February 2005. In 2009 LS polls, the RJD-Congress pact withered away again. The Congress had to contest 2010 assembly polls on its own, as RJD sidelined us again,” Sharma added.AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha argued that RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s lies about his talks with AICC chief Sonia Gandhi sowed the seed of confusion among the masses ahead of the voting. “The way the Congress’s interest was taken for granted by the RJD, people are now seldom taking the grand old party seriously. People still believe that the Congress will join hands with the RJD. This doubt must be cleared and the party workers need to work tirelessly to apprise them about the achievements of the Congress. One can’t turn the wave overnight,” added Jha.In-charge of the membership drive Brajesh Kumar Munnan said block and booth committees would be formed in April while the state committee is likely to be reconstituted by mid-July after the conclusion of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/firm-to-contest-ls-polls-alone-bihar-congress-to-launch-mega-membership-drive-from-today-101635695544299.html
31-10-2021||Patna||Body of lieutenant killed in J&K blast reaches Bihar; CM expresses grief||The body of Lieutenant Rishi Kumar, who died in an improvised explosive devise (IED) blast near a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Saturday, arrived at Patna airport on Sunday.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief and shock over the killing of the lieutenant and extended his condolences to the bereaved family. In a statement, the chief minister said the country would never forget the sacrifice by the officer and announced that the last rites of the deceased lieutenant will be performed with full police honours.Begusarai MP and Union minister Giriraj Singh also saluted Rishi’s bravery and prayed to God to give strength to the family to bear his loss.“My tributes to the undoubting courage of army personnel Lt Rishi Kumar & Sepoy Manjit Singh, who attained martyrdom while safeguarding India’s territorial integrity in the Nowshera sector. My deepest condolences to the families of deceased jawans and prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured,” lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said in a tweet.Meanwhile, gloom descended on Lieutenant Rishi Kumar’s house at Professor Colony in Pipra locality of Bihar’s Begusarai Town following the news of his death reached on Saturday.The incident took place when an army column was on patrol duty to check the infiltration of terrorists from across the border.On October 27, Kumar’s mother Sarita had spoken to her son over the phone. She said that he promised to come home for Chhath Puja. “However, he did not come, but we got the heart-wrenching news of the death of my son. I never thought that it would be the last time I would speak to him,” Sarita added.Neighbour Vikas Vaibhav said Rishi Kumar had joined 17 Sikh Infantry of the Indian Army in 2020 and was posted to Jammu and Kashmir only two months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/body-of-lieutenant-killed-in-j-k-blast-reaches-bihar-cm-expresses-grief-101635695499303.html
31-10-2021||Patna||Special summary revision of electoral rolls to begin today||The special summary revision to enlist all eligible voters currently not having their names in the photo electoral rolls will begin from November 1 and continue till November 30. The final publication of the electoral roll will be done on January 5 next year. This time, the state election department has fixed November 7 and November 21 as special campaign dates when booth level officers would be available at the polling stations to take applications from the voters across all districts in the state. Officials said that only at Tarapur and Kushweshwar Asthan, the first campaign date has been changed to November 14 due to the bypolls in two seats that took place on October 30. The second campaign drive in two assembly seats would be held on November 21.Chief electoral officer, Bihar, H R Srinivasa, said that wide publicity was being done in districts to encourage all eligible voters to enrol their names in the electoral rolls and also omit names of deceased by filling up necessary forms both physically and through online mode.“We are doing wide publicity for enrolment of a higher number of voters during the revision,” he said. All those who have attained the age of 18 and above as of January 1, 2022, would be eligible to enrol their names in the updated list, officials said.The total number of electors in Bihar as per the last updated list published on February 15, 2021, stands at 74,965,804. The number of male voters stood at 39,388722 while female voters is 35,574,340 and third gender 2742, as per the data. The number of voters in the age group of 18-19 stood at 940,090, as per data of the poll panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/special-summary-revision-of-electoral-rolls-to-begin-today-101635695498040.html
31-10-2021||Patna||Bihar disaster management dept issues guidelines for Chhath preparation||The state disaster management department on Sunday issued guidelines for all district magistrates (DMs) in the state for making proper safety arrangements at ghats ahead of the Chhath festival.The four-day Chhath celebration will be held from November 8 to 11.The department’s secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal asked all district magistrates to make prior arrangements to prevent any untoward incidence at ghats.“DMs must ensure deployment of SDRF and NDRF teams along with divers at all Chhath ghats. Besides, quick medical team and ambulances should be deployed at all ghats as per requirement”, he said.The department has also instructed for monitoring of water level of Ganga at regular intervals and ensure proper barricading to prevent drowning mishaps.Agarwal also held a review meeting with Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh, SSP Upendra Sharma, municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma for implementing Covid-19 safety protocols during the Chhath festival.“A large number of people are coming to Bihar from other states ahead Diwali and Chhath. Ensure their Covid-19 test and vaccination to curb the spread of the virus. Use of sanitisers and masks is mandatory at ghats. Adequate police magistrates and security forces must be deployed at all ghats for crowd management”, he added.Patna district administration has identified 48 ponds for the Chhath celebration while survey 92 ghats are going on to mark safe ghats amid rising water level of Ganga.Meanwhile, Singh inspected several ghats and ponds near Anisabad and Gardanibagh to assess ongoing preparations and directed concerned officials for timely repair of approach roads and cleanliness.“All Chhath ghats will be equipped with basic amenities like changing room, lights, drinking water facility, toilets and parking space for the convenience of devotees. All preparations and decorations will be finished by November 8”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-disaster-management-dept-issues-guidelines-for-chhath-preparation-101635695496890.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Turncoats will only harm others: Maya||A day after six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs joined Samajwadi Party (SP), BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday termed them as “rainy season frogs” (seasonal players) who were hopping from one party to another before the assembly polls.In a series of tweets, Mayawati said, “With assembly election approaching, the period of defectors hopping from one party to another has started but the defection is not going to increase the support of any political party. Instead, it will harm them. The BSP should maintain a distance from such rainy season frogs.”“Not only the defectors but like rainy season frogs, the names of many such political parties are also being heard whose names were not seen and heard till now. People understand such a game for power. It is not going to have any effect on them. The change is permanent,” she added.On Saturday, six BSP rebel MLAs namely Aslam Raini (representing Bhinga in Shravasti), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Pratapur, Prayagraj), Aslam Ali Chaudhary (Dhalauna, Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia, Prayagraj), Sushma Patel (Mungra Badshapur, Jaunpur), and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli, Sitapur) joined the Samajwadi Party.Earlier, former BSP state unit president RS Kushwaha and senior party leader Vir Singh had joined the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/turncoats-will-only-harm-others-maya-101635695123997.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi offers Kabul river water at Ram temple foundation||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered water from the Kabul river in Afghanistan at the Ram temple foundation in Ayodhya on Sunday. “A girl from Kabul in Afghanistan had sent water of the Kabul river to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a request to dedicate it to the Ram temple,” said the chief minister. Adityanath reached Ayodhya along with the water, which was sealed in a small plastic bottle. After reaching Ram Janmabhoomi, the chief minister mixed the water from the Kabul river with Ganga jal (water from the Ganga) and sprinkled it on the Ram temple’s foundation with full Vedic rituals. Two priests were also present on the occasion. “On PM Modi’s instructions, I am here (Ayodhya) to dedicate the water from Kabul river, which has been mixed with Ganga Jal, to the Ram temple,” he added. Before leaving for Ayodhya, the CM told the media in Lucknow that the girl’s gesture (of sending Kabul river water) becomes all the more important because, with the Taliban coming to power in Afghanistan, the freedom of women has been curtailed there.“In such a situation, the girl’s gesture of sending the water of the Kabul river for offering at the Ram temple is highly praiseworthy,” he said. The Ram temple has an international appeal and people from different faiths have expressed their sentiments in different countries in its favour, he said.Adityanath has already said that 12 lakh diyas (earthen lamps) collected from all the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh will be lit in Ayodhya as part of the Deepotsav celebrations in the pilgrim town on November 3. Adityanath also presided over the concluding ceremony of the Ramayan Conclave at Ram Katha Park. President Ram Nath Kovind had inaugurated the event during his Ayodhya visit on August 29. On the occasion, the CM felicitated the saints of Ayodhya, including Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, who were present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-offers-kabul-river-water-at-ram-temple-foundation-101635694644197.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath: Will those responsible for Ayodhya firing apologise to the nation?||Playing up the issue of the firing on kar sevaks in Ayodhya during the Samajwadi Party (SP) rule 31 years ago on October 30, 1990, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked if those responsible for ordering the firing would apologise to the nation. Adityanath was speaking at a social representative meet of the Other Backward Class (OBC) community in Lucknow.“Would those who killed innocent kar sevaks in Ayodhya muster up the courage to apologise to the nation now?” he asked.Adityanath had also made a mention of the Ayodhya firing on the 31st anniversary of the anniversary on Saturday, while the BJP shared a video of the police firing on its official @BJP4UP twitter handle. Earlier on Friday, Union home minister Amit Shah had set the tone for the 2022 UP poll campaign, referring to the Ayodhya firing. He had stated that while the kar sevaks were killed during the SP rule, the dream of a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya was set to be fulfilled under the BJP. Adityanath said the courts, too, ratified the BJP stance on the Ram temple and that is why the temple construction has started in Ayodhya. “A grand Ram temple is being built under the BJP rule. The previous governments, instead of engaging in constructive politics and good governance, focused on firing on Ram bhakts,” Adityanath said. Yogi also claimed credit for establishing the rule of law and said mafia and anti-social elements are behind bars and the supremacy of the rule of law has been established. “This is the time to make all the people aware that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country has been marching from strength to strength. This is India’s golden era and the country’s global stock is at an all-time high. The Taliban has tormented both Pakistan and Afghanistan, but Talibanis know that if they dare march towards India, air strikes would follow,” Adityanath said. The Samajwadi Party (SP) refused to comment on Adityanath’s query, with party leaders claiming that the BJP, aware of a certain defeat, was busy playing divisive politics. “The BJP would be driven out of UP. The Samajwadi Party organisation is strong. The BJP lost in Bengal and it will lose in UP, too,” said Samajwadi Party vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda. Apart from the one that Adityanath addressed, BJP held two more caste meets on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-will-those-responsible-for-ayodhya-firing-apologise-to-the-nation-101635694526488.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Two arrested in Uttar Pradesh over pro-Pakistan actions||Two men were arrested in separate instances in Uttar Pradesh for taking allegedly pro-Pakistan actions.In the first case, one man was arrested on the sedition charge for hoisting the Pakistan flag atop his shop in a Varanasi village. The other man was taken into custody in Aligarh for posting pro-Pakistan slogans on social media after the Pakistan cricket team’s victory over the Indian side in a T20 World Cup match on October 24, police officials said.In Varanasi, a 22-year-old tailor was arrested on Saturday after he hoisted the Pakistan national flag on the roof of his shop at Bhavanipur village in the Rajatalab area on Friday, the police said on Sunday.A senior police officer said the locals alleged that Taj Mohammad had put the Pakistan flag on his shop and when some villagers asked him to remove it, he hurled abuses at them and shouted a pro-Pakistan slogan. Following tension in the village, a police team reached the spot and had the Pakistani flag removed, the officer said. Taj fled his house before the police team reached the village, he added.In a statement, the police said the police registered a case against him under Indian Penal Code sections 124 (A) (sedition), 505 (2) (making statement with intent to cause public fear) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) for shouting the pro-Pakistan slogan and hoisting the Pakistan flag.A police team led by sub-inspector Pankaj Singh arrested him from the Bhavanipur area on Saturday.Ram Ashish, the station officer of the Rajatalab police station, confirmed the accused was arrested.An officer said that during interrogation, the accused claimed that some locals provoked him for his action. The matter is being investigated. In Aligarh, the police arrested Mohd Farukh on Saturday for posting pro-Pakistan slogans on the social media after Pakistan’s victory. The arrest was made after a case was registered at the Akrabad police station of Aligarh.Suman Kanojia, the circle officer for Barla police circle in Aligarh, said, “The complainant had named Mohd. Farukh for allegedly posting objectionable material on social media after India faced defeat in T20 World Cup opening match on October 24. The complaint was verified and the case was registered at the Akrabad police station of Aligarh on Friday.”“The case has been registered at Akrabad police station under section 153A (promoting enmity and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 295-A (deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings), 298 (deliberate intention of wounding religious feelings), 505(1)(b) (inducing to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquility) of the Indian Penal Code, besides Section 66F (Cyber Terrorism) of the Information Technology (Amended) Act 2008,” the circle officer said. “The complainant had named Mohd Farukh who was arrested on Saturday and a search for his unidentified associate in the case is on,” she added.Another complaint has been lodged against a student for posting pro-Pakistan chats on a WhatsApp group after the match. Police personnel privy to the matter at the Civil Lines police station of Aligarh said the police were verifying the authenticity of the complaint and were yet to register a case. The complaint was made by office bearers of Hindu Jagran Manch led by state secretary Pushpendra Singh Jadaun at the Civil Lines police station of Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh-over-pro-pakistan-actions-101635694465352.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Need to revise the discipline lesson, say teachers as schools reopened after 19 months||Getting back to school after around 19 months was a joyous moment for both students and teachers as they missed meeting friends in the classroom, running around in the playground and face-to-face interaction with others owing to virtual classes.The flipside of this happy picture, however, has been the fight to bring discipline back into a classroom. Several teachers are finding it more and more difficult to maintain discipline during offline classes, and at the same time, manage conducting online classes for students sitting at homes for the same subject.“Basic rules of being seated while in class and not interrupting a class while the teacher talks suddenly seem like a task for students. We [teachers] are noticing more and more students with shorter attention span, which is becoming a problem during offline classes,” said Melina Matthews, a secondary school teacher from a state board school in Vashi. She added that many teachers have been facing similar problems.“The first few days we thought that the sudden change in the routine was affecting students, and we gave everyone time to adjust. But increasingly, more and more teachers are finding it difficult to control the classroom. We feel helpless because while we understand that the students are going through a lot, there’s not much we can do to bring things back to normalcy,” said another teacher on condition of anonymity.In August, state minister of school education Varsha Gaikwad announced that offline classes will restart on August 17 for class 5 to class 8 in rural areas and class 8 to class 12 in urban cities by following Covid-19 protocols. This decision was, however, not approved by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. In the last week of September, Gaikwad announced that after a 19-month break, schools in the state will reopen, starting October 4. In a series of tweets, Gaikwad mentioned that in rural areas, schools will reopen for class 5 to class 12 will resume, while in urban areas schools will reopen from classes 8 to 12. An approval from the local municipality followed and a government resolution (GR), too, was released soon.This was not the first time that the state government had called for reopening of schools. Last November, the school education department had released a similar circular, announcing re-opening of schools for classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner. By January, another circular was released, directing that students from classes 5 to 8 be brought back to school in groups and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour on campus. Both these circulars, however, were revoked after Covid-19 cases started rising again, and the state government called for another complete lockdown starting mid-April.“Until September, children would sit at home with a phone or in front of a computer screen during the class, and by keeping their video off they were free to roam around during the class as well. Many would respond to questions asked by teachers by quickly searching for information online. Suddenly, coming back to school has left many children feeling bound and frustrated,” said Arundhati Chavan, president of Parent-Teachers Association United Forum. She added that coming back to school has not only shaken students out of their routine but created problems for teachers as well. “Instead of suddenly asking schools to reopen, the government should have waited for schools to conduct some workshops and only then bring back staff and students in a phased manner,” she added.Many schools are also observing that students from the older classes are showing “aggression” in classrooms by constantly back-answering or defying the teachers’ orders. Keeping this in mind, more and more schools are working with counsellors and are conducting workshops for staff as well as students to help them transition into a classroom better.“We knew this process of coming back to school will be difficult for students as well as teachers. So we got our team of school counsellors together to train our teachers first in how to handle students in such a situation. Our teachers have been reaching out to students individually, and sometimes even their families, in order to ensure every student, is easing into the physical classroom set up with as little hassle as possible,” said Kavita Aggarwal, chairperson of Mumbai International Schools’ Association (MISA) and director of DG Khetan School, Malad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-to-revise-the-discipline-lesson-say-teachers-as-schools-reopened-after-19-months-101635694464074.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||2 watchmen, one other arrested for molesting residents in Oshiwara||The Oshiwara police have arrested three men including two and watchmen of a plush society in Lokhandwala on Saturday for passing derogatory remarks about female residents of the building.According to the police, the three had been passing lewd comments on women for the past few months. The complainant, who is an artist and also works for a production company in Andheri told the police that she had been staying in the society for the past eight months along with her female colleagues. In her complaint, the woman claimed that since July 2021, the three accused had been passing comments on the women whenever they entered or exited the society gate.On October 21, a women resident said that when she was entering the building, one of the accused stopped her and asked her to enter her name on the register, at the gate. When the woman replied that she had been staying in the building for eight months, the watchman abused her and passed lewd comments. Irked with the behaviour of the watchman, the woman then contacted her boss who suggested she register a first information report (FIR) against the accused.“Based on the complaint of the woman, we have arrested the three men under sections 354(d) and 506 for molestation and criminal intimidation and are recording the statements of other residents of the society to find out how many more women have been harassed by the accused,” said Sanjay Bandale, senior police inspector of Oshiwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-watchmen-one-other-arrested-for-molesting-residents-in-oshiwara-101635694224241.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Indian Navy gets first of four stealth guided destroyer built at Mazgaon Dock||The Mazagon Dock Limited (MDL) has delivered the first ship INS Visakhapatnam, of the four stealth guided-missile destroyers under project-15B, to the Indian Navy. Project 15B comprises four ships — Visakhapatnam, Mormugao, Imphal and Porbandar, and all are being built by the MDL.Visakhapatnam ship can accommodate a crew of 312 persons, has an endurance of 4,000 nautical miles and can carry out a typical 42 days mission with extended mission time in out of area operation. The ship is equipped with two helicopters on board to further extend its reach. The ship is propelled by a powerful combined gas and gas (COGAG) propulsion plant, consisting of four reversible gas turbines, which enables it to achieve a speed of over 30 knots (approximately 55 km/hr).The keel of Visakhapatnam was laid in October 2013 and was launched in 2015. The second ship Mormugao was launched in September 2016 and is currently in sea trials. It is expected to be commissioned next year. The third ship Imphal was launched on April 20, 2019, and is at an advanced stage of outfitting. The fourth ship is under block erection and will be launched within the current financial year.“The indigenous content in Project-15B class destroyers is 72% which is a notch above their predecessors’ project —15A (59%) the Kolkata class destroyers comprises three ships – Kolkata, Kochi and Chennai, all of which were built by MDL and commissioned in the last decade. The ship is constructed using indigenous steel DMR 249A and is amongst the largest destroyers constructed in India, with an overall length of 164 meters and a displacement of over 7,500 tons” mentioned in the press release issued by MDL.The ship is capable of undertaking a variety of tasks and missions. It is armed with supersonic surface-to-surface ‘Brahmos’ missiles and ‘Barak-8’ long-range surface to air missiles. Towards undersea warfare capability, the destroyer is fitted with indigenously developed anti-submarine weapons and sensors, prominently the Hull mounted Sonar Humsa NG, heavyweight torpedo tube launchers and rocket launchers.The acceptance document was signed by vice admiral Narayan Prasad retired from the Navy and currently, chairman and managing director, MDL and rear admiral KP Arvindan at MDL in the presence of a commanding officer (designate), MDL directors and Navy personnel, written in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-navy-gets-first-of-four-stealth-guided-destroyer-built-at-mazgaon-dock-101635693623985.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Sleep deprivation major cause of accidents on Maharashtra highways: IIT-B Study||Drivers who do not sleep adequately or sleep less than five hours are at a higher risk of causing accidents, revealed a study conducted by Dr Kirti Mahajan and Prof Nagendra Velaga of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). The study also states that there is a physiological decline in alertness during the post-lunch hours between 2pm to 4pm and between 1am to 5am. It suggests that drivers should be more cautious while driving in these periods by adopting slower speeds or maintaining larger gaps with other vehicles on the road.The study is pertinent considering the Royal Society for the Prevention of Crashes, 2017, in the United Kingdom, attributed 20% of crashes to driver’s drowsiness. And the World Health Organisation (WHO) states that India contributes to 11% of the 1.35 million deaths and injuries caused by road crashes worldwide.The main objective of the study was to model the response time and total braking time of drivers under partial sleep deprivation compared with no sleep deprivation using a driving simulator. The initial response time and total braking time were analysed in two emergencies where the first condition was of pedestrians crossing a road and the second of vehicles merging into the driver’s direction of a roadway. Parametric accelerated failure time models with Weibull distribution and clustered heterogeneity were used previously to model the time to such events along with controlling for the effects of covariates.Twenty professional taxi drivers and thirty regular drivers drove the driving simulator in a 4-lane divided rural highway representing national highways near Mumbai with monotonous driving conditions i.e., lack of changes in the roadside environment, low traffic density, wider and divided roads, states the study.According to the study, the drivers were required to stop the vehicle as soon as they detected the pedestrians to avoid any accident. In the second event, a truck and a car started merging into the road but did not occupy both lanes. Therefore, the drivers were required to reduce their speed to allow a safe manoeuvre instead of full braking.Changing lanes was not an option to respond as drivers were asked to keep in the left lane at all times unless indicated otherwise. Also, to maintain uniformity in the approach of the ‘parked vehicle crossing event’ for all the drivers, this event was preceded by a ‘single lane changing task’ (placed 3kms before this event in all the driving sessions). This preceding task assured that each driver would follow the ‘right-sided lane’ during this event. This event was followed by another ‘single lane changing task’ to ensure that all the drivers would resume the left-sided lane before approaching any other event in the scenarios.The study is significant considering statistics from Maharashtra Highway Police reports 2,754 fatal accidents between 2019 to June 2021 on four national highways – Mumbai-Goa, Mumbai-Kolhapur, Mumbai-Surat and Mumbai-Agra – in which 3,012 people lost their lives. The data also revealed that from 2019 to June 30, 2021, a total of 12,850 accidents took place on the four major highways connecting Mumbai to other cities.Police officers said even though travel curbs were in place across the country, the fatal accidents have not declined. In 2019, the four major highways reported 2,696 accidents, including 1,084 fatal ones in which 1,166 people lost their lives. In 2020, the figures did not show any vast decline despite the lockdown as 2,158 accidents took place, including 1,114 fatal accidents in which 1,215 people died. This year till June 30, the four national highways have witnessed 1,196 accidents, wherein 621 people have lost their lives.Highway police officers said that 90% of these accidents occurred due to human error on part of heavy vehicle drivers. The most number of accidents however were reported on the Mumbai-Agra and Mumbai-Kolhapur highways, making them the most dangerous road stretches.Researchers from IIT Bombay found that sleep loss resulted in delayed response time of drivers to take evasive action such as applying brakes, removing feet from an accelerator, or decelerating the vehicle. For example, on the sudden appearance of pedestrians on the road, the reaction time of drivers increased by 10% after one night of partial sleep deprivation. “Drivers tried to compensate for such delays with sudden aggressive braking which further increases their crash risk,” states the study.In another emergency event where a truck started merging into the driver’s lane, drivers took 44% higher time than baseline to take any evasive action to avoid colliding into the truck, the study found.The drivers also tried to compensate for their low alertness by adopting slower speeds when driving under sleep loss. However, the number of crashes observed during the sleep loss conditions was significantly higher than the baseline.The study also found that drivers maintained a time gap of 0.65 to 1.08 times smaller from the leading car when driving partially sleep deprived when they were asked to follow another leading car over a stretch of 3 kilometres, and it also found that such drivers made frequent acceleration and decelerations to adjust their speed to avoid collision with the leading vehicle. The study states that there is an increase in the speed variations by 1.28 to 1.34 times during sleep-deprived sessions which increased the risk of a crash.“The researchers observed that drivers were aware of the decline in their alertness and loss of driving controls due to sleep loss condition as they self-reported these decrements during the driving tests. Therefore, the drivers shall take constant rest breaks, caffeine, and water during long journeys on noticing any such symptoms of sleepiness or loss of alertness. Few studies suggest taking a short nap as an effective way to avoid sleepiness or regain alertness,” states the study.The government is also improving the roadside infrastructure by building layover areas and rest stops for drivers. In another study conducted by Dr Kirti Mahajan and Prof Nagendra Velaga from IIT-B with the University of Nottingham, UK, the researchers observed that while driving in monotonous conditions, the drivers can use their in-car infotainment systems or digital voice assistants such as Google, Siri or Alexa to keep them alert.“One of my best friend’s father was driving back to Himachal at late night with his wife after attending a wedding in Punjab. The entire trip was planned to be covered in a day because they took only one holiday to attend the wedding. Uncle had an experience of more than 25 years of driving but unfortunately, he was tired and fell asleep behind the wheel falling off from a bridge. They had a severe injury with his wife witnessing the entire accident and undergoing major surgery. The effects of sleep deprivation can be detrimental to drivers irrespective of their age, experience or a habitual schedule of adequate sleep. Currently, as far as we know there is no such regulation to curb work-rest schedule among car and taxi operators for example Maggie’s law in the State of New Jersey. Therefore, given the high accident statistics and prevalence of taxi operators and hired cabs in India it is even more necessary to take measures to curb the accident rate,” said Dr Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sleep-deprivation-major-cause-of-accidents-on-maharashtra-highways-iit-b-study-101635691584007.html
31-10-2021||Pune||PMC denies claims of debris dumping on Mula-Mutha riverbed||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has refuted civic activists’ claim that they are dumping debris in the riverbed of the Mula-Mutha thereby hindering the riverfront development project. According to the corporation, actual work on the riverfront development project has not yet started and only a tender for the Sangamwadi to Bundgarden stretch has been floated as of now. Also, the corporation has taken help from the Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) to design the project.On October 28, the chief engineer of the water resources department of the Pune division wrote a letter to the PMC with reference to civic activist Sarang Yadwadkar’s allegations that the corporation is dumping debris on both sides of the Mula-Mutha river under the guise of the riverfront development project and that this in turn has obstructed the natural flow of the river apart from violating the state government’s orders dated September 29, 1989 and May 3, 2018.The water resources department also warned the PMC against obstructing the natural flow of the river, changing its cross-section, and reducing its carrying capacity. Else, the chief engineer of the water resources department of the Pune division will take action against the PMC. The civic body is solely responsible for construction in the prohibitive and restrictive zone of the river as well as human and financial losses due to flooding.However, environment officer of the PMC, Mangesh Dighe, responded to the letter written by the chief engineer of the water resources department of the Pune division saying, “The PMC has not yet started any physical work on the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project. It is at the tender level. We just floated the first tender of the project.”While Yuvraj Deshmukh, superintendent engineer of the building permission and control department who is also a part of the project, said, “The corporation has consulted with the CWPRS. We have approved the design and incorporated the suggestions in the project. CWPRS gave us a hydrological report. Since 2016, we are discussing every detail and giving presentations to the concerned stakeholders about this project.”According to civic officials, the Mula-Mutha river flows through the PMC, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), Khadki and Pune Cantonment areas for 44 km. There is 650 hectare land available for development of the green belt of the river which will be given for development to private players to get funds for the project. Out of the 650 hectare, only 75 hectare belongs to the government and the remaining is private. Hence, the PMC will get money in development charges from development of land along the river. The total estimated cost of the project is ₹4,727 crore. In the first three years, the corporation will spend ₹800 crore and the remaining project will be implemented on the public private partnership (PPP) model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-denies-claims-of-debris-dumping-on-mula-mutha-riverbed-101635690743984.html
31-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Cong to launch campaign against inflation, says ‘Modi has govt failed’||The Rajasthan Congress on Sunday announced that it will run a statewide public awareness campaign from November 14 to November 29 to tell people that the Modi government has "failed" to check inflation in the country.The party will also launch a membership drive in Rajasthan on November 1 and it will go on till March 31, 2022, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said.On the results of panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections in Dholpur and Alwar districts, where the Congress won the majority of seats, he claimed that similar results will be seen in elections elsewhere in the country in the coming days."Congress workers will go to about 55,000 booths across the state. Training camps will be organised for workers and common people will be made aware of the fact that the Modi government has failed to check inflation."The public awareness campaign will be mainly against inflation and will run from November 14 to 29," Dotasra told reporters after paying tributes to former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her 37th death anniversary at the state Congress headquarters here.He said that the BJP has been completely exposed."The people who are in power are working to destroy institutions, they are working to kill democracy. People of the country are seeing all this. The way (election) results are coming in Rajasthan, now in the coming time, you will see similar results wherever elections are held in the country," the Congress leader said.AICC general secretary and state in-charge Ajay Maken and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will also take part in the campaign.Dotasra said the Congress will also launch a membership drive in the state from November 1. It will go on till March 31, 2022.State Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the people are standing with the Congress because of the welfare and development schemes of the Gehlot government.The BJP only takes the name of Lord Ram, but the Congress has implemented the principles of 'Ram Rajya' in the state. 'Ram Rajya' means that the government is working for public welfare and development, he said.Khachariyawas exuded confidence that the Congress will win bye-elections to both Vallabhnagar and Dhariyawad assembly seats in Rajasthan.Gehlot, Congress leaders and officials also attended the programme to pay tributes to Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cong-to-launch-campaign-against-inflation-says-modi-has-govt-failed-101635688269432.html
31-10-2021||Pune||No Covid deaths in PMC for third consecutive day||PUNE On Sunday, for a third day in a row, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported no Covid-related deaths and fewer than 100 new cases. This despite the shopping rush at markets pre-Diwali and the reopening of commercial establishments and colleges. The city has reported a marked drop in the number of active Covid-19 cases, as only 731 patients are reported to be undergoing treatment for Covid-19, of which 112 are critical.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the state said, “It could be said that the spread has come under control as the number of recoveries supercede the number of new cases. Therefore, the active cases are also going down. We did not see any spike in numbers post Ganpati or Dussehra, when we saw a similar crowd on the streets as we see now. The number of vaccinated people has also gone up, which secures them from the infection. However, we must keep in mind that senior citizens who have got the vaccine could still be vulnerable, so wearing a mask at all times in public places should remain mandatory till there are no active cases in the city.” On Sunday, the number of new Covid-19 cases reported is 57 on Friday, while it was 59 on Saturday and 71 on Sunday. As of now Pune city has 731 active patients of which 112 are critical patients out whom 104 are on oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-covid-deaths-in-pmc-for-third-consecutive-day-101635690503945.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Slab collapses at construction site in Balewadi; six-eight hurt||PUNE At least six-eight people were injured after a slab of a building under construction collapsed in Balewadi, Pimpri Chinchwad, early on Sunday morning. All the rescued were injured and no casualties were reported, according to fire brigade officials who conducted a search in the rubble. The fire brigades of Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Pune Metro Region Development Authority (PMRDA) responded and a total of six fire units were present on the spot. “The injured were pulled out by locals. As per the locals, 12 people were rescued and no other person was found. Later, upon verification, we learned that there are 6-8 people at the hospital and nobody has sustained any serious injury,” read a statement from the Pune city fire brigade. While some suffered injuries on the hands, some on the stomach and other suffered scratches and 11 of them escaped unscathed.“We did not get a call from the site at all. The builders generally do that. Someone from the neighbouring buildings probably saw it and later gave us a call. Pimpri Chinchwad fire brigade responded first. Later on, Pune and PMRDA were called. After two hours of search, we were told that there were 18 people working on the slab and 11 escaped and 7 injured have been accounted for,” said Prabhakar Umratkar, Sinhagad road division of Pune fire brigade.The site was of Naiknavare Associates. The company has claimed to have taken responsibility of the medical expense of the injured.“The incident was unfortunate. We are conducting a thorough investigation into why and how it has happened. Thankfully no life was lost and nobody sustain serious injury. For now, out priority is to provide the right medical help and support to the families of the injured,” said Ranjeet Naiknaware, Chairman, Naiknavare Developers.The injured were rushed to a private hospital in Wakad area. Six units of the three fire fighting forces worked for two hours to conduct a search and confirm the report of no casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slab-collapses-at-construction-site-in-balewadi-six-eight-hurt-101635690324328.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||R-Day Parade 2022: 59 cadets of Lucknow NCC selected for inter group competition||After a fierce competition, a total 59 cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) team of Lucknow NCC Group have been selected for the inter group competition to be held at Noida from November 8 to 28. These cadets include 27 of army, 16 of navy and 16 cadets of air wings from among the 10 units of Lucknow NCC Group.Final selection for the Republic Day Parade-2022 will be done out of these cadets along with the cadets of other NCC groups. Lucknow NCC Group is the largest NCC group in UP NCC Directorate and has approximately 11,000 cadets in 10 units of army, navy and air wings.Earlier, competitions were held to select teams of drill, guard of honour, best cadet and cultural programme of Lucknow NCC Group for the inter group competition.Before leaving for Noida, Brig Ravi Kapoor, Group Commander, Group Headquarters Lucknow, interacted with all selected cadets at 19 UP Girls’ Battalion camp at Sanskrit Pathshala Kanya Inter College, Lucknow.He encouraged them to do well in the final competition. On the occasion, he also gifted 59 tracksuits to all cadets with insignia of Lucknow NCC Group. He also checked documents of all cadets to ensure completion. Brig Ravi Kapoor also visited camp of 19 UP Girls’ Battalion NCC where 373 girl cadets are undergoing training. Col Dinesh Kanojiya, Commanding Officer of 19 UP Girls’ Battalion NCC briefed him on training being given to cadets. Col Gautam Guha, Col Naresh Chand, Col Sudhir Kumar and Col Nitin Sahai were also present on this occasion. One of members of the Lucknow NCC group, Harsh Trivedi, said group members were happy to be among the 59 cadets selected for inter group competition in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rday-parade-2022-59-cadets-of-lucknow-ncc-selected-for-inter-group-competition-101635690024140.html
31-10-2021||Pune||70-year-old woman murdered in Pune; gold worth ₹1.75 lakh stolen||PUNE: A 70-year-old woman was found murdered in her house in Pune on Sunday morning, officials said. The murder is suspected to be a fallout of a house-theft or robbery gone wrong, as god ornaments worth ₹1,75,000 were found missing.The deceased woman was identified as Shalini Baban Somawane, a resident of a residential building in Hingane Khurd area. The woman was a widow of a government servant whose pension she used to get. Her three children - two sons and one daughter - are married and live separately. One of the sons, who lives in a building next to the one where the victim lived, found the woman.“There is no sign of forced entry and the sole injury is on the head. Postmortem report is awaited to identify the cause of death. The only valuables missing are from inside the cupboard. The cash kept in the cupboard, and gold earrings, necklace and other jewellery on her person are intact,” said assistant commissioner of police Sunil Pawar of Sinhagad road division of Pune police.The man came to visit his mother on Saturday night and found her lying on the floor of the living room of her house. He informed the police and then the body was sent for postmortem.“The safety door was locked from outside and the inside door was left ajar. The son came visiting because she was not answering her calls,” said ACP Pawar.At the time of filing report, a case was being registered at Sinhagad road police station under Section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/70yearold-woman-murdered-in-pune-gold-worth-1-75-lakh-stolen-101635689963815.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports four Covid deaths in October, lowest in a month since March 2020||Delhi ended the month of October by reporting only four deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest since the pandemic struck in March 2020, health bulletin data revealed on Sunday. With this, the death toll in the national capital remained at 25,091. The last fatality in the city was reported on October 22, the bulletin data showed.The lowest Covid-19 deaths were earlier reported in September when five people had succumbed to the viral infection. However, after Sunday's figures, October bettered last month's situation. Notably, the fatalities this month were reported on October 2, 10, 19 and 22, as per the bulletin data.As many as 37 new cases were logged in Delhi on Sunday, thereby taking the cumulative tally of the city to 14,39,825. An equal number of fresh infections were recorded on Saturday as well. However, with 22 new recoveries, the figure witnessed a dip on Sunday as opposed to Saturday’s 48. According to the health bulletin, the total number of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi stands at 14,14,385.A total of 2,03,76,521 eligible beneficiaries in Delhi have been inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine jabs so far. Of this, as many as 1,30,13,648 have been inoculated with the first coronavirus vaccine shot while the remaining 73,62,873 got their second shot. Meanwhile, 58,830 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine shot in the past 24 hours, with 21,476 receiving their first dose and 37,354 their second.This development comes close on the heels of the AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government’s decision to further relax Covid-19-related restrictions in the city.Also Read | DDMA mulls making Covid vaccination mandatory for entry into malls, metrosOn Friday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) permitted movie halls, multiplexes and theatres to function at 100% seating capacity, and also increased the number of people at weddings and funerals to 200 from 100. Meetings and conferences in banquet halls have also been allowed.These relaxations will come into effect from the intervening night of October 31 and November 1, and will remain in place till November 15/16 or until further orders, the DDMA order stated.Despite putting a blanket ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali, the Delhi government has allowed Chhath Puja celebrations at designated places on November 10. The Chhath Puja will be celebrated only six days after Diwali this year.Also Read | Ahead of Diwali, these states have put a ban on firecrackers in view of Covid-19Furthermore, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Wednesday that schools for all classes in the national capital will be allowed to reopen from November 1 onwards. He, however, clarified that students who are unwilling to go to school can continue with the current mode of online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-4-covid-19-deaths-in-october-lowest-in-a-month-since-march-2020-101635687603248.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Third cheating case against Gosavi lodged at Wanowrie police station||PUNE The Pune Police have lodged a third FIR against K P Gosavi at the Wanowrie police station, officials said on Sunday. In the latest case, Gosavi has been charged under IPC sections 420, 409, 506 (2), 120 (b) and Arms Act 3 (25), after a complainant alleged that an offence took place on November 13, 2018, near Krome Mall chowk in Hadapsar and at the Sanpada-based office of Gosavi. This is the third case against Gosavi, with the earlier two being a 2018 case registered at Faraskhana police station and one registered on Friday by the Cantonment police. In the Wanowrie case, Gosavi, his company and one more associate, name not specified have been booked after Prakash Manikrao Waghmare (48), a resident of Mohammadwadi lodged a complaint. According to the FIR, the complainant and two of his friends met K P Gosavi of Gosavi International, the owner of the company on November 13, 2018. The accused and two others, of identified as Kusum Gaikwad, who had an office near Bombay Garage in Camp, told the complainant that he would get a lucrative job abroad, and took ₹55,000 in cash. He was later asked to deposit ₹90,000 in an SBI account. The complainant paid ₹1.45 lakh to the accused during his dealings, the complaint states. According to the police, Gosavi took the money and instead provided an incomplete document related to travel to Malaysia. When the complainant went to the office seeking a refund, he was threatened at gunpoint by the accused. Inspector Deepak Lagad of Wanowrie police said, “A case has been lodged against Gosavi and others and is being investigated. He has cheated three persons for ₹1.55 lakh and even threatened them,” he said. Gosavi was arrested on Thursday in Pune in a case of cheating dating back to 2018. Gosavi is also a key witness of the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in the case against drugs seized on a cruise ship, in which Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan was arrested. Aryan Khan has been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/third-cheating-case-against-gosavi-lodged-at-wanowrie-police-station-101635689723839.html
31-10-2021||Pune||PMC’s ‘vaccine on wheels’ initiative sees 300,000+ vaccinated against Covid||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) “Vaccine On Wheels” initiative has vaccinated a minimum of 300,000 people in the city. Vaccine On Wheels which allows easy access to the Covid vaccine to those who otherwise cannot go to a vaccine centre. People with special needs, the bedridden, the elderly, CSWs and also those living in slums were vaccinated through the special drives. Over 100,000 people living in slums have gotten the vaccine through this special initiative. A total of 1,370 campaigns were conducted under the PMC’s Vaccine on Wheels’ initiative. Until October 27, a total of 312,397 have been vaccinated against Covid-19 of which a majority of them, 173,274, are slum dwellers. Additional municipal commissioner, Ravindra Bhinwade said, “The civic body had started the initiative to ensure that no one is left unvaccinated just because they are not able to get access to the vaccine. Elderly, especially abled and also those who are bedridden have got the vaccine through the initiative. Even though PMC has operated a large number of vaccination centres the initiative opened more doors for beneficiaries.” As per the PMC the city saw 99,624 “super spreaders” who got the jab under this initiative which includes rickshaw drivers, hawkers, housemaids, construction workers and daily wage earners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-vaccine-on-wheels-initiative-sees-300-000-vaccinated-against-covid-101635689364255.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Pune region: MTDC resorts 90% booked for Diwali vacations||With the Diwali festive season about to begin, people have started planning vacations, post Diwali. The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation’s (MTDC) Pune region claims it has 90 per cent bookings for its resorts for the days after the Diwali weekend, i.e for days after November 7. With the number of Covid cases dropping, due to which the state government has allowed tourist spots and resorts to reopen, people who have been at home for last almost two years, have started making travel plans. “We have got 90 per cent bookings for our resorts in the Pune region for November, while in December, bookings have gone upto 70 per cent,” said Deepak Harne, regional manager, MTDC Pune. “As there were good rains this year, waterfalls in the hilly regions of the district are at full throttle. And now, as the winter season has begun, with Covid restrictions eased, people are coming out for vacations. In the Pune region, there are various places to visit like Karle, Bhaje, Tarkarli, Harihareshwar, Dapoli, Mahabaleshwar, Panshet, Bhimashankar, and Malshej. Specially bookings are done at Mahabaleshwar, Tarkarli and the Panchagani resorts,” he said. As per the information released by MTDC Pune, there is concession offered for senior citizens, government employees, specially abled people, and Army personnel when booking online. MTDC resorts also have wi-fi connections in some rooms. “All the Covid protocols and rules are strictly followed at our resorts. Thermal checking, maintaining social distancing and sanitising the rooms is done daily. We hope to have good Diwali vacation stays this year,” said Harane. On other hand private tour players are also getting bookings, especially for the long weekends after Diwali. “As the Covid second wave is done and most people are fully vaccinated, the tourism business is again taking shape. Now tours around the state and even in the country are getting bookings for November and December. As all states have opened up their tourist destinations, tours for Rajasthan, Kerala, Goa and various other states are getting a good response. We are expecting to cover the losses which we had during the summer vaccations,” said Deepak Pujari, president of the Travel Agents Association of Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-region-mtdc-resorts-90-booked-for-diwali-vacations-101635689063937.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Three men arrested for molesting woman in long-distance train||The Borivli government railway police (GRP) officers have arrested three men on Saturday for allegedly molesting a fellow passenger aboard a long-distance train — Avantika Express. The incident took place on October 10 when the victim and her husband were travelling to Indore from Mumbai Central. According to the complainant, the three men who were sitting on the opposite berth were drunk. At 10pm, when the train made a halt at the Borivli station, the men allegedly molested the woman.The woman said that one of the accused squeezed her shoulder and others passed lewd comments on her, after which, her husband intervened and alerted the other passengers. On October 11, the woman and her husband approached the Indore Police and registered a complaint against the men.Assistant inspector Darshan Patil, from Borivli GRP, said that after the complaint was transferred to them from Indore, they requested the railways to provide them with the passenger list. “We have arrested the three men from Mumbai who were travelling to Ahmedabad when the incident took place,” said Patil.Patil further said that the accused work for a courier company was travelling for work and was back within a few days. “The complainant in her statement said that the men were drunk and molested her. Since the victim is in Indore, we are investigating the case based on the statement she gave to Indore Police,” said Patil.The three accused have been arrested under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code and will be presented before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-men-arrested-for-molesting-woman-in-long-distance-train-101635685583605.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Centre passed burden of free Covid vax, Central Vista project on people: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut took on the Centre over the rising fuel prices and inflation in the country, stating that the government is putting the burden of inflation to build the Central Vista project and for the free Covid-19 vaccine drives. Referring to the Union minister of state for petroleum and natural gas Rameswar Teli’s statement, Raut, in his weekly column ‘RokhThok’, said that the Centre is making “fun” of the inflation and soaring prices of fuel and other commodities.Last week, the minister, in a response to a question on rising fuel prices, had said that the prices are increasing because the government provided free Covid-19 vaccines.“Ministers in the [Narendra] Modi government are making fun of inflation. Teli said that the prices of petrol and diesel have increased because of the free Covid-19 vaccines.This means that the burden of the doses of the free vaccine is ultimately put on the common man. Then why are advertisements on free vaccination done, and on whose money? Everyone is stuck on the cruise drugs party [raids]. Everybody is quiet on petrol crossing the ₹100-mark... Raut stated in the column, published on Sunday in Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’.The column added that the Centre showed ₹67,113 crore incurred to provide free vaccines. But the Modi government has earned ₹25 lakh crore through the “taxes” on fuel, it added.The Sena parliamentarian also attacked the Centre saying that the construction of the Central Vista project, costing ₹20 lakh crore, is a burden on the people as it is being done out of “stubbornness”. “In Delhi, the Central Vista project worth ₹20 lakh crore is being implemented out of stubbornness... If the new Parliament, new offices, prime minister’s residence and other things are being built through the burden of inflation on the common citizens, then what use are they of?” he questioned.As a policy, the Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does not respond to criticism or remarks in Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-passed-burden-of-free-covid-vax-central-vista-project-on-people-sanjay-raut-101635685463506.html
31-10-2021||Indore||IndiGo flags off six domestic flights from Indore, to operate daily||IndiGo started six domestic flights connecting Indore to Allahabad, Jodhpur and Surat on Sunday.The flights, virtually flagged off by Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, will operate daily, according to a statement.Sanjay Kumar, chief strategy and revenue officer of IndiGo, said, "Direct connectivity from Indore, the largest city in Madhya Pradesh, to the political, tourist and business centres of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Gujarat, will cater to the regional travel demand while promoting trade, tourism, and mobility."Overall, IndiGo operates 604 weekly flights from Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indigo-flags-off-six-domestic-flights-from-indore-to-operate-daily-101635679570244.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Your Space: Implement road safety measures, become responsible drivers||In November 2020, after a major accident on the new Katraj tunnel-Navale bridge chowk road, the Pune city traffic police had conducted a survey of the area along with the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and decided to come up with structural and enforcement solutions to the traffic issues on the accident-prone patch. We have submitted a list of 20 corrective measures to NHAI, including installation of signages, reflectors, restructuring of exit and entry points to the road, maintenance of the service roads and repairing of potholes and median damages. The mishap figures so far this year are high partly on account of the merger of the Lonikand and Loni Kalbhor police stations with the city police limits. A majority of the road accidents occurred on the Pune-Solapur and Pune-Ahmednagar highways and the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. Pune city in the past eight months witnessed at least 140 accidents claiming 145 motorists. Some accidents have claimed multiple deaths. A majority of the casualties is two-wheeler riders — 90 people riding two-wheelers died in eight months. In the corresponding period last year, 95 persons were reported dead in accidents on the city roads. When it comes to the busy Katraj-Dehu road bypass and the two major highway stretches, speeding is an issue and thus the number of fatalities on these stretches is higher. Lonikand has reported 19 fatalities on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, while Loni Kalbhor reported 16 fatalities on the Pune-Solapur highway. Human error is the main reason behind the accidents at Katraj tunnel and Navale bridge. Rahul Srirame Potholes are hazardous to road safety There are a number of potholes on the stretch of Katraj-Dehu road bypass between Chandani chowk and Warje posing risk to vehicle users. Gaping potholes have developed on the bypass in the past two months and remain unattended. There is a constant fear of accidents on this stretch, as motorists tend to apply sudden brakes on spotting potholes, while heavy vehicles are slow to do so. Not only are the potholes an invitation for an accident, but also cause massive traffic jams on this stretch. Regular commuters dread the prospect of driving on this stretch daily. They have become a cause of worry for people who use the bypass regularly to reach Katraj via Navale bridge. Motorists drive on the bypass under a constant fear of accidents — heavy vehicles do not slow down on the pothole-ridden stretch, while small vehicles apply sudden brakes. Sachin Bhosale Black spots need immediate attention The black spots are where regular accidents are happening. In this case, since 2014, a total of 56 people has lost their lives on this stretch. There are some black spots identified near the turn at Dari Pul bridge, the Swami Narayan temple chowk, the Narhe selfie point and the Navale bridge chowk. Last week, three accidents at different points on this stretch left three people dead and several injured. Many drivers of heavy vehicles, to save fuel, switch off the engine and slide down the slope in neutral gear, where the vehicle control then becomes difficult. These spots need immediate attention to check accidents. Manjusha Joshi Road safety not priority for authorities The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has said that it will conduct a survey of the bridges and flyovers where accidents have been occurring frequently with special focus on Navale bridge area. The decision was taken after elected members of PMC, across party lines, raised the issue at the general body meeting. A survey of these spots would be conducted and report of these accident-prone spots would be drafted in two days and a copy would be sent to the Union government as well as the state government authorities. The blind spots and other problems here would be resolved at the earliest. We believe that this is just another eyewash as Navale bridge has become an epicentre of accidents. As many as 68 people have lost their lives in accidents near this bridge, since it was constructed a few years ago and I do not think there is any room for future repairs. Ali Bhaduri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-implement-road-safety-measures-become-responsible-drivers-101635678323260.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: To watch or not to watch, that is the question||Just two days ago, a live show “Irshaad” of two prominent poets – Vaibhav Joshi and Sandeep Khare – came under fire on social media. It was organised by a leading media house as one of the events in their roster for Diwali. But some people expressed their displeasure over the name. What unfolded over the next day was confusing to say the least. The next day, an artwork of their programme was posted on social media and shared widely. Only this time, the name of the show had changed to something “safer”. There were multiple reactions to this. Some were happy that this happened and felt that it was a victory. Others were vocal about how the artists had given in easily and were spineless. While this was happening parallelly, Vaibhav and Sandeep issued a joint statement. They mentioned that they have been performing this show (under the same name) for nearly five years and that the organisers had hired them to present this particular show. They felt that changing their show just for this occasion will not be right and eventually the show was cancelled. They have decided to continue doing these shows in the future. Sometime in 2006, we had been invited to perform our play named “Lose Control” for a programme organised by a group who were not much older than we were. Just to clarify, this wasn’t a Diwali event. “Lose Control” was a hilarious take on a taboo subject back then and it was pretty popular amongst the youngsters. It was bold, but I can say confidently that it was not vulgar. I was also an actor in this particular play. We started performing and could sense that the nearly 500 strong audience was with us from the very beginning. They were responding at the correct places and their laughter was encouraging our performance too. Nearly 15 minutes into the play we heard some kind of commotion in the wings. We have been trained to concentrate on our performance in any kind of disturbance and continued our acts. But the volume of the voices in the wings started increasing. I could see my co-actors getting distracted too. But we kept performing. It reached a point when one of our backstage members called out to me during the middle of my dialogue! Now there was no option but to stop performing. This was a first for me too. I went backstage, my two co-actors following me. I was informed that there were some people in the audience who had not liked the nature of the play at all and had asked for it to be stopped. I was extremely unhappy about this, but this was after all a private show. We had to do whatever the organiser asked us to. But it did not feel right to leave the audience hanging out there without a clue. So, the entire team went back on stage and with folded hands I apologised to the audience, stating that we had been asked to stop. While we were about to go inside, there was an instant collective reaction from the audience. Many of them wanted the show to go on! The voices kept increasing. Again, this was not my decision to make and I looked at the organiser. He clearly seemed confused and did not understand how to handle this situation. The audience provided the answer. They shouted saying that whoever did not want to watch the show could leave it and those who wished to stay could enjoy the rest of the show. Voices grew in support and the organiser agreed to it too. Immediately there was an applause from the audience. In the faint light, we could see the silhouettes of around seven people leaving from the first row. It seemed like it was the chief guest and his family or friends. The remaining people were still there. We started performing again and it turned out to be one of our most memorable shows! Now that I look back, I realise that the audience had provided such a simple, yet elegant solution. But what struck me the most was that it was organic! Those who wished to watch it stayed back and those who did not went away. We were lucky that night that most in the audience wanted to watch it. I wish the organisers had shown some more restraint in this current situation too. I am not here to play judge and pass a verdict on who is right and who is wrong. But should not every individual be allowed to decide for herself/ himself? Cancelling the show robs the audience of this choice. It has provided a temporary solution, but it cannot be sustained in the long run. . Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-to-watch-or-not-to-watch-that-is-the-question-101635678023407.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows daily tickets for local train travel||Passengers will be able to once again buy daily tickets for single or return journeys in the local trains on the suburban railway network in Mumbai and surrounding cities.Following the demands from passengers, the Maharashtra government on Sunday permitted the Central and Western Railway to restart issuing of daily tickets on their suburban railway network for all those who are fully vaccinated and have completed the mandatory cooling period of 14 days after vaccination.The state government had asked the railways to discontinue daily tickets and issue only monthly passes after resumption of the train services following the second wave of Covid-19. Only people working in the essential services were allowed to get daily tickets.Also Read: Violinist Prabhakar Jog passes away in Pune at 88“As one time ticketing was allowed on long distance passenger trains before too, this relaxation means that all fully vaccinated residents may travel in local and passenger trains on all routes and through all kinds of tickets that may be issued by railways including daily ticketing. Being fully vaccinated will be the only mandatory condition for issuance of any kind of tickets for travel in trains.” said a statement issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-daily-tickets-for-local-train-travel-101635674423370.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar has a 'Capt Saab' twist to Channi govt's no ad on Indira Gandhi's death anniversary||Veteran Punjab Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Sunday hit out at the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government for not publishing any advertisements in remembrance of late Prime Miinister Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary.Tagging an advertisement of the government released last year under the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government on the occasion, Jakhar wrote, “I can understand BJP trying to erase 'Iron Lady of India' from history but don't we still have a Congress Government in Punjab… I know Capt Saab (as Singh is known) won’t mind my using this PB Govt’s ad from last year, as none appeared today.”I can understand BJP trying to erase 'Iron Lady of India' from history but don’t we still have a Congress Government in Punjab. PS. I know Capt Saab won’t mind my using this PB Govt’s ad from last year, as none appeared today pic.twitter.com/yJSMIYQuPgIn another post on the microblogging site, Jakhar apparently drew a connection with the appointment of Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress' new executive committee and wondered if the government’s move to not issue any ad to remember Indira had anything to do with it.“Or is it a case of 'once burned twice shy' - in light of certain appointment two days ago?” Jakhar posted.Tytler was one of the main accused in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi. Gandhi was assassinated on October 31, 1984, by two of her own security guards.Opposition parties, including BJP and SAD, in Punjab have targeted the Channi led government over Tytler's appointment.On Saturday, BJP leader Tarun Chugh asked Channi and Congress' state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to clarify if they endorsed Tytler’s appointment as a permanent invitee to the committee."Tytler has been named as one of the key Congress leaders in Delhi, but he, Kamal Nath and Sajjan Kumar continue to be the blue-eyed boys of the party in spite of the fact that their role in riots against Sikhs has been always highlighted by many witnesses,” Chugh said.SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema wanted Channi to tell Punjabis why he gave his “consent” for the appointment of Tytler to a "prestigious" Congress panel.Jakhar had made a cryptic comment three day ago when Channi visited the national capital and AAP leader and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal visited Punjab.“Punjab CM in Delhi, Delhi CM in Punjab, yet again! Must say, at least one of them has got his timing right,” Jakhar had tweeted. Kejriwal had responded with a smile iconBefore the Congress propped up Channi for the top post, Jakhar was among the top contenders after Singh resigned from the post over months-long tussle with Sidhu over power-sharing issues.Earlier this week,  Singh said he was forming a new political party, the name and symbol of which will be shared once cleared by the Election Commission.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jakhar-has-capt-saab-twist-to-channi-govt-s-no-ad-on-indira-gandhi-s-death-anniv-101635673455881.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Finding my breathing space amid information explosion||As I reach for the newspaper this morning, I can’t help wondering if my saturated brain needs more stimulation! The 1,200g vital organ, the seat of intelligence and the real crowning glory, is an endless library with overflowing shelves. Looking back at life, it does seem like my mind has consumed more information than what could be digested, leading to the queer problem of ‘infobesity’. As if the long years of student life when it endured the sheer volume of content wasn’t enough, I chose varied subjects in my teaching years, too. Along with business studies and economics that I was qualified to teach, during the interview itself, I gleefully requested for history and political science, the two most content-heavy subjects. Thereafter, I dived so deep into these subjects while teaching that names, such as Robert Mugabe and Kwame Nkrumah, sounded more familiar than those of the neighbours. Since my childhood, the brain has been busy storing names, places, lyrics, books and authors, important dates, kitchen hacks, basic medical knowledge, home remedies and all information necessary to keep up with our lives, our children and parents, friends, and TV shows. Along with facts, the mind has also been assaulted with pseudo facts, jibber-jabber and rumours, too. After half a lifetime of grabbing every bit of knowledge floating about, the data smog in my head seems just as smothering as the smog that is expected to engulf our state at this time of the year. Plus, my brain is paying the price for having a photographic memory. Though, it is fun to recount to friends the bittersweet but trivial memories associated with them, (“….then you said this and you were wearing that”), I now wonder how many gigabytes of space such memories must be occupying in my brain. What if it runs out of space like a hard drive? Where will I store fresh memories that are stacking up? On top of it, the Swiss army knife of all gadgets that my phone is, subjects me to more new information in a day than a person in the middle ages in his entire life. This information overload (or perhaps filter-failure) has scattered my thoughts and is taking me off my game. Just a couple of months ago, I was able to dissect the Israel-Palestine conflict. And wasn’t that me who was recently elucidating to a class why Kodak and Nokia failed! I could fill up pages to describe the Belgian model of power sharing. All this knowledge seems to have slipped through a sieve. What is the point in storing information if I cannot retrieve it when needed, like while indulging in a heated online debate. I should readjust my focus and reduce the things to the manageable minimum. Just as a good farmer leaves a piece of land fallow to retain its fertility, I would do well to shut my mind to more onslaught of information for a while. For the timebeing, I am no longer interested to know whether the coffee beans at my favourite restaurant come from Columbia or Brazil or whether my face cream has red algae extracts. I will try to be zen-like and let go of the need to know everything. Enlightenment through ignorance! rupymand@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finding-my-breathing-space-amid-information-explosion-101635673642933.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: Aryan Khan's co-accused Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha released from jail||Arbaaz Merchant, a co-accused of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the drugs-on-cruise case, was released from Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai on Sunday.Fashion model Munmun Dhamecha, who was also arrested with the duo by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 from the Goa-bound cruise, was released from the Byculla women's jail in the city earlier in the day.Drugs-on-cruise ship case | Arbaz Merchant released from Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai. pic.twitter.com/swDpCC6uVdMerchant and Dhamecha were granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday along with Aryan. But the final procedures took some time with Aryan walking out of jail, after spending 22 days, on Saturday, followed by the duo returning home a day later.Arbaaz’s father, Aslam Merchant, who has been regularly speaking to the media ever since his son’s arrest, said the family would obey all bail conditions religiously. “I'm immensely happy. His mother is the happiest person that our son has come home. Our prayers and blessings came true. We'll obey all the bail conditions religiously,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The HC had in its detailed order asked Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha to appear before the NCB's Mumbai office every Friday between 11.00 am to 2.00 pm to mark their presence.Also read | Aryan Khan ‘has hope’ as he is Shah Rukh Khan’s son, says Arbaaz Merchant’s father: ‘We’re just common people’On Friday afternoon, the HC made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan, Merchant and Dhamecha, stipulating their release on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. The release order of Dhamecha was put in the bail box outside the Byculla jail late Saturday evening, after the bond process was completed. Dhamecha's advocate Ali Kaashif Khan on Sunday said, "She has been released from the jail after completion of all the legal formalities. We are now going to file an application before the NCB seeking permission to allow her to go Madhya Pradesh, as she hails from there."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-s-jail-mate-and-co-accused-arbaaz-merchant-munmun-dhamecha-released-101635668622474.html
31-10-2021||Dehradun||13 killed in road accident in Dehradun’s Chakrata||Thirteen people were killed in a road accident in the Chakrata area of Uttarakhand’s capital of Dehradun on Sunday morning after the vehicle they were travelling in fell into a 300 feet deep gorge, said police. “As of now, 13 people have died in the accident. Their bodies have been recovered from the spot with the help of local villagers who were the first to reach there to rescue people,” said Satendra Bhati, the station house officer of Chakrata. He said the rescue personnel had to face difficulties in reaching the accident spot at Tiuni in Chakrata tehsil, about 170 kms from Dehradun, as it was a remote site and about 300 feet deep. Also Read: High court sets aside transfer of IFS officer’s petition from U’khand to DelhiUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the accident and directed transport department to ensure there is no overloading in vehicles and to take action against such vehicles. He also appealed to people in the state to not allow overloading in vehicles, so that such incidents don’t recur. While overloading is a common cause of accidents in the hilly terrain of the state, the exact reason behind the Chakrata accident is not known yet. District magistrate R Rajesh Kumar said the accident occurred on the Bulhad-Baiyla road. “It was a local utility vehicle and most likely it was overloaded. SDRF (State Disaster Response Force) personnel and police have reached the area to carry our search and rescue operations”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/13-killed-in-road-accident-in-dehradun-s-chakrata-101635668602599.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana bans use and sale of crackers in all 14 NCR districts in state||The Haryana government on Sunday ordered a ban, with immediate effect, on the sale and use of fire crackers in all 14 districts of the state which come under the National Capital Region (NCR). In a notification, the State Disaster Management Authority said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the festive season, the use of crackers during which, it said, adversely affects the respiratory health of vulnerable groups, in addition to aggravating the health condition of Covid-19 patients who are under home isolation.The 14 Haryana districts which fall in the NCR and, thus, will see a blanket ban on the sale and use of fire crackers are: Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonipat. The agency further clarified that in addition to these districts, the prohibition shall also be applicable in all cities/towns in the state where the quality of air during November is “poor” or worse.However, it permitted green crackers in all cities and town with air quality “moderate” or below. On Diwali and Gurupurab, green crackers can be burst for two hours, from 8pm to 10pm, from 6am to 8am on Chhath, and 11:55pm to 00:30am on Christmas/New Year's Eve, it said. “The Haryana State Pollution Control Board will issue the list of the above mentioned cities and towns, and, separately, make the same available online on their website and also publicise the same to inform the public,” the notification read.The order also made it clear that in all areas where crackers are allowed, community participation shall be promoted, and be undertaken only at pre-identified and pre-designated spots. Also, even for other celebrations such as weddings, only green crackers will be allowed. In all cases, the sale of crackers is allowed solely through licensed traders.The State Pollution Control Board will immediately initiate short-term monitoring (14 days) in all cities and towns. This will be done to identify parameters such as Aluminum, Barium, Iron, apart from thee regulatory parameters against the short-term ambient air quality criteria values (AAQCVs), as proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for the use of fire crackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-bans-use-and-sale-of-crackers-in-all-14-ncr-districts-in-state-101635664643154.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||At least 2 injured as mall construction site caves in at Chandni Chowk||Two persons were injured and at least one was feared trapped after a shopping mall construction site at Chandni Chowk in the national capital caved in on Sunday morning along with at least a couple of temporary shelters on the ground . The teams of the fire department and the local police are carrying out rescue and search operation.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call at 10:55 am informing about a house collapse at the under construction Omex shopping mall, opposite Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib, and near the Kotwali police station.“A total of four fire tenders were rushed to the incident spot. One person is suspected to be trapped under the debris as per the accounts of eyewitnesses to the collapse. Our search and rescue operation is on,” said Garg.According to the police, at least two of the temporary shanties built close to the shopping mall construction site collapsed along with the metal sheets erected around them when the earth under a portion of the construction site caved in.Also Read | ‘Farmers will set up tents in police stations, DM offices’: Rakesh Tikait“We are still verifying what exactly happened and what all collapsed. As of now, two injured persons were removed from the mishap spot and admitted to a nearby hospital. Further details will be shared in due course,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi.The police said that the construction site was earlier used as an authorised parking space. The parking lot was dismantled and construction work for the mall was being done at the spot for the past few months, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-two-injured-in-collapse-of-temporary-shelters-as-earth-caves-in-101635665123056.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Violinist Prabhakar Jog passes away in Pune at 88||Prominent violinist and musician Prabhakar Jog died Sunday morning at his residence at Sahakar Nagar in Pune, family members confirmed. He was 88. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled Jog’s demise saying, “He made the violine sing. However with his death, the violine has gone silent.” Born on 25th December 1932 in Haregaon of Maharashtra, Jog learnt classical vocal music from Pandit Gajananrao Joshi and Pandit Narayanrao Marulkar for six years. According to his contemporaries, Jog was inspired by Shridhar Palshikar’s music and started taking lessons in Violin from his brother and it was not long before he started accompanying popular singers to concerts. Violin became his means of earning a livelihood when he lost his father. His performance at the annual gathering of his college in the year 1950-51 earned praise from legendry Marathi singer, composer Sudhir Phadke and an offer to join his orchestra. Later, Jog was to play an integral part in the creation of the famous Geet Ramayana series with Phadke. Jog got his first break as a violinist for a Marathi film Shri Gurudev Datta for which songs were composed by Snehal Bhatkar. For the Geet Ramayana’ series, Jog was not only a violinist but also a full fledged assistant music composer and an arranger. He independently composed three songs for the series, sung by Sudhir Phadke and Chandrakant Gokhale. He also composed music pieces for more than 40 songs in this series. He also assisted legendary music directors in the Marathi film industry, Shrinivas Khale, Vasant Pawar, Ram Kadam, Vasant Prabhu, Yashwant Deo,Pandit Hridayanath Mangeshkar and Dashrath Pujari. Jog had acquired mastery in writing notations, a language in which music is written understood and played. He is also known for composing songs for the All India Radio,Pune. His first song as a music director, Lapvilpas Tu Hirva Chafa was broadcast on Akashwani Pune and sung by his wife Late Neela Jog. It remains one of the most popular Marathi songs till today. Also Read | SRK told his son trapped as he…: Nawab Malik on drugs and Wankhede caseJawai Maza Bhala was his first film as a composer, which was followed by composing music for 22 Marathi films, out of which 12 were hits. Many noted singers like Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhosale, Suresh Wadekar, Suman Kalyanpur, Sudhir Phadke have sung under his music direction. He received the Swami Haridas and Saraswati Awards instituted by Sur Singar Sansad three times. He was also honoured with Dadasaheb Phalke Trophy by Dadasaheb Phalke Academy. He played violinist for more than 85 music directors with 12 albums to his credits and was known for Swar Ale Duruni, which were vocal renditions of melodious songs from Marathi films, while Bhavgeetas were devotional songs for which he composed music. The other two were Ganare Violin and Gata Rahe Mera Violin in which he plays several Marathi and Hindi popular songs on Violin. His musical legacy is continued by his sons and grandchildren||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/violinist-prabhakar-jog-passes-away-in-pune-at-88-101635663442360.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||SRK told his son trapped as he…: Nawab Malik on drugs and Wankhede case||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday said attempts were made to silence him in the drugs-extortion-caste certificate case involving the Narcotic Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede and Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan who was jailed for over a little less than a month in an alleged rave party bust case.Malik, a spokesperson of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a partner in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), has accused Wankhede of using forged documents to obtain a government job under the Scheduled Caste (SC) category and said the senior NCB officer is a Muslim. All the allegations made by Malik after the drugs-on-cruise case grabbed national headlines have been refuted by Wankhede.Also read | We have more proof against NCB, says Nawab MalikSpeaking to reporters, Malik further said that while he was asked to stop from going ahead with his accusations against Wankhede, the Bollywood star was told his son was trapped as he spoke (his mind). “When I started (raising allegations against the NCB chief), people I know told me to stop. They said that Shah Rukh Khan is being told that his son is trapped as he (Khan) speaks. My lawyer son was being brainwashed by other lawyers. He used to tell me to stop," the Maharashtra minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.When I started (allegations against Sameer Wankhede), people I know told me to stop.They said that Shah Rukh Khan is being told that his son is trapped as he(Khan) speaks. My lawyer son was being brainwashed by other lawyers.He used to tell me to stop: Maharashtra min Nawab Malik pic.twitter.com/bA4mm5qJ5G“Some people said that matters relating to drugs involve money, goons and I could lose my life. Attempts were made to silence me. But I had said that we will take this to a logical end. If someone says they will kill Nawab Malik, then I'll die the day I have to,” he further said.Also read | BJP using NCB to target Maharashtra and Bollywood, claims minister Nawab MalikMalik said he stood by statements and his fight was against fraud and not religion or caste. “I stand by my statement that he's (Sameer Wankhede) on post by forging SC certificate. He snatched away a poor SC man's rights. Fight against fraud not religion/caste. I urge Arun Haldar (vice chairman of National Commission for SC) to maintain his post's dignity,” he added.Meanwhile, state social justice minister Dhananjyay Munde has said if someone raised objections to the validity of the caste certificate of Wankhede and filed a complaint with his department, the matter would be probed.Aryan, who was arrested along with Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha and several others earlier this month after the NCB conducted a raid on a Goa-bound cruise off Mumbai and claimed to have seized drugs onboard, was released from Arthur Road jail on Saturday, two days after the Bombay high court granted them bail in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/srk-told-his-son-trapped-as-he-nawab-malik-on-drugs-and-wankhede-case-101635659721404.html
31-10-2021||Lucknow||Married women in Lucknow can easily change address in voters list. Here’s how||Women in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh, can now easily get their address mentioned on the voters list changed after their marriage, if they choose to live in their husband's house, reported Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan.To make the voting process easier for them, they will now have an option of registering their new address, Lucknow’s district magistrate, who is also the district election officer, announced on Saturday.According to the rule, married women will no longer need to go to their father's house to cast their vote. They have been given an option under which if the husband says that she is his wife in the form to amend her name, then the new address will be registered.The district magistrate further said that the revised voter list will be published on January 5.There are a total of 1526 polling stations and 4018 polling booths across the state capital, Lucknow. At present, there are 37,31,000 registered voters in Lucknow, including 19,94, 487 males, 17,36,507 females. At least 23,400 voters are in the age group of 18 to 19 years.Special campaigns will also run for four days for the address revision programme. The first special campaign will be held on November 7, followed by another special campaign on November 13, 21 and 28.People can also get their names registered in the voter list on the above-mentioned days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/married-women-in-lucknow-can-easily-change-address-in-voters-list-here-s-how-101635651269178.html
31-10-2021||Bangalore||Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar’s last rites today, to be performed with full state honours||The last rites of Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, who died after a cardiac arrest, will be performed on Sunday. Puneeth Rajkumar, the youngest of the five children of thespian Dr Rajkumar, passed away at the age of 46, after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday.News agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the matter that the mortal remains of Puneeth Rajkumar will be taken in a procession for about 13km from Sree Kanteerava Stadium to Kanteerava Studio. His mortal remains, wrapped in the national flag, have been kept at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru, to enable fans and well-wishers to pay tributes.The government has announced that Puneeth Rajkumar's last rites will be conducted with state honours at Dr Rajkumar Punyabhoomi in Kanteerava Studio, next to his father Rajkumar and mother Parvathamma Rajkumar.Also watch | Crying fans, posters across cities as Puneeth Rajkumar gets teary farewellThe late actor is survived by his wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha. His family and the government earlier planned to perform the last rites on Saturday evening, after his daughter, who is in the US, reaches the city."Puneeth's daughter has reached Delhi and is travelling to Bengaluru and may reach the city by about 6pm. Secondly, there is a lot of crowd here (Kanteerava Stadium) and many people wish to see him for one last time, also after 6pm when it will be dark it will be difficult to perform last rites there (Kanteerava studio)," Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday.Also read | Puneeth Rajkumar's fan dies of heart attack after news of actor's deathBommai said while speaking to reporters that keeping all this in mind and after discussing with Puneeth's elder brothers Shivarajkumar and Raghavendra Rajkumar and other family members, it has been decided to conduct the last rites on Sunday."So we have made an opportunity for more people to pay their last respects till tomorrow morning. I appeal to his (Puneeth's) fans to pay their last respects with patience and by maintaining peace, as there is time till tomorrow morning," he said.Thousands of grieving fans continued to flock Kanteerava Stadium on Saturday to pay their final respects to Puneeth Rajkumar."Police personnel are here for us and to see to it that things go on in a disciplined way, they too are our people and are fans (of Puneeth),” the Karnataka chief minister said. Everyone should cooperate in maintaining peace and order... the timing of the last rites will be decided late night, depending on the situation and will be informed," he added.Also read | Puneeth Rajkumar death: Yash, Jr NTR and Nandamuri Balakrishna in tearsPuneeth's elder brother and actor Raghavendra Rajkumar thanked fans for their cooperation. "As Appu's (as Puneeth is fondly called by fans) elder daughter was in New York for studies, there is some delay in her arrival. As the last rites cannot be performed after dark, we will decide on the timing of the last rites tomorrow, late in the night today, once she arrives. We are aware that you (fans) are also in pain," he said on Saturday, according to PTI.Bengaluru witnessed large-scale violence following the death of Puneeth's father Dr Rajkumar in 2006.Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accompanied by Bommai and other ministers of the state cabinet, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, former CM SM Krishna, pontiffs of various mutts paid their respects on Saturday. Leading South Indian film stars such as N Balakrishna, Chiranjeevi, Junior NTR, Venkatesh, Arjun Sarja and ace choreographer Prabhu Deva also paid their tributes to the Kannada actor."The feeling is like losing a son of our house," an elderly woman fan was quoted as saying by PTI. "Our Appu might have physically gone, but he will remain with us through his acting and the impact he has left on us because of his good and friendly nature," a young fan said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/kannada-film-star-puneeth-rajkumar-s-last-rites-with-full-state-honours-today-101635642809383.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | A big thank you from Mr Leopard||A stud specimen of a young male leopard with long whiskers flaring upwards, canines curling downwards like glittering crescent moons and measuring an estimated eight feet from nose to tail tip has much to thank for in life. It is now wandering freely in the Dhar forest block of Pathankot due to an extraordinary joint rescue effort undertaken by teams of the Pathankot and Phillaur wildlife divisions on October 24. This was the third such lucky leopard rescued from a conflict situation in Punjab since 2017 and released into the wilderness rather than being packed off to serve life imprisonment in the Chhatbir Zoo. Prior to the visionary policy change introduced in 2017 by the then Punjab chief wildlife warden (CWW) Kuldip Kumar, the fate of Punjab’s rescued leopards was that they were packed off to the zoo where they were stuffed like sardines to satiate the boredom of ogling visitors.Another fine male leopard rescued in a dramatic fashion from Chandigarh’s tony Sector 5 during the Covid lockdown in April 2020 also met with similar positivity from the UT wildlife department. The Sector-5 leopard was bestowed a fresh lease of freedom as it was released in a remote area of the Morni Hills, Haryana. Leopards roaming freely are apex predators of the region’s jungles. By removing them and imprisoning them in zoos under political and public pressure, not only is the jungle’s food chain disrupted but it creates a vacuum, which stray dogs fill to wantonly slaughter wild species. A free, roving leopard exerts a sway of terror in jungles and naturally keeps domesticated hounds at bay. “Our wildlife team undertook a very difficult operation to rescue the leopard in Pathankot and put their life and limb at risk. I asked DFO Pathankot Rajesh Mahajan to have the rescued leopard examined by veterinarians to see whether it was injured. When it was found free of injuries, I directed that it be rehabilitated in the wilderness. Why should we place healthy leopards in captivity?” Punjab CWW RK Mishra told this writer. The Pathankot rescue and release took 13.5 hours and was conducted in adverse hilly terrain, amid unseasonal, inclement weather. The leopard, which was trapped in a clutch-wire contraption used for poaching and guarding crops from wild animals by agriculturists, was concealed in dense bush 500m uphill of village Dorang Koti in Dhar Kalan block. “Our personnel volunteered to climb a tree next to the leopard to get a clear aim for the tranquillising gun. That was risky as we did not know to what extent the leopard had been immobilised by the trap. It was emitting blood-curdling snarls. However, once the tranquilliser took effect, the leopard slid down the ravine that was so steep that its angle was nearly 80 degrees. Two of our staff members then donned ropes around their waist and were lowered down like mountaineers to drag the partially unconscious leopard back to safety as it could have plunged down the ravine to its death,” Mahajan told this writer. “Due to foul weather, we had to use flashlights during the late afternoon as visibility was low due to a sun blackout. After the tranquillised leopard was safely in the cage, all hell broke loose with cold rain and a hailstorm rendering our movement very difficult. The cold made the iron bars of the cage so icy that we found it difficult to grip the cage and carry it back to the waiting transport vehicle below. We were finally able to find shelter after a torturous drive through hail on broken hilly roads and examine the leopard. We released the leopard in the dead of night at 12.30am even as adverse weather pounded our tired bodies. In the adrenaline-packed operation, we had neither eaten nor taken water, we were soaked to the skin with cold rain. We did not have even a moment to spare to relieve our bursting bladders! But the effort was well worth it when we saw the leopard bounding away to freedom,” added Mahajan, for whom it was the seventh leopard rescue in his career.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-a-big-thank-you-from-mr-leopard-101635629882793.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Local tennis academy gets seasoned coach; to come up at Chandigarh Club||After coming up with their hockey and football academies in the region, RoundGlass Sports will roll out its tennis academy with seasoned coach Aditya Sachdeva at the helm as technical director. The academy will come up at Chandigarh Club and will be operational by year-end. A reputed coach with more than 20 years of top-level experience, Aditya has coached and developed 25 national champions. Ten of his students have represented India in the prestigious Davis Cup and Billie Jean King Cup (former Federation Cup) competitions; Yuki Bhambri (Best ATP ranking #83), Karman Thandi (Best WTA ranking #196), Divij Sharan, and Vijayant Malik are some of Sachdeva’s students.Gurpreet Singh, founder, RoundGlass, said: “In addition to football and hockey, we are happy to add tennis to our portfolio with the launch of RoundGlass Tennis Academy. We want to transform tennis in India by offering best-in-class training and giving children the opportunity to explore their potential in the sport.”Aditya said about the launch of the academy: “At RoundGlass Tennis Academy, we aim to develop world-class players and create role models for the next generation. With our proprietary systems, processes and focus on holistic wellbeing, we aspire to be one of Asia’s premier training academies by 2025.”The academy will offer 100% scholarship to a maximum of 20 young players based on its proprietary screening process and selection trials. To complement the tennis academy, RoundGlass Sports plans to open several development centres and grassroots centres across Punjab as part of its overall vision to redefine tennis coaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/local-tennis-academy-gets-seasoned-coach-to-come-up-at-chandigarh-club-101635629762803.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | A promise unkept but dharma upheld||The war had just ended and the Pakistan army was preparing to surrender. Tasked with a reconnoiter of the venue of the surrender ceremony at Khulna, he was driving to the brigade headquarters when a Pakistani second lieutenant signalled them to stop. Defeated and battle fatigued, the soldier requested to be escorted to his platoon. It was unsafe for him to travel in the land that had overnight become independent and an enemy territory. “My parents had migrated from Hoshiarpur in 1947,” the youngster spoke in chaste Punjabi in order to establish an emotional connect. It was conveyed to the subaltern that irrespective of his ‘Punjab connection’, he would be helped. “Be kind on the enemy, for all you know, their fathers may have fought alongside me in the Great War with the Germans.” He remembered the parting words of his veteran father when he had left for the imminent war. I made my radio operator stand on the open Willys Jeep, hoping that our olive green uniforms, along with my turban, would dissuade the local militia from firing at us. The excitement in his voice was palpable. However, by the time they reached, the Pakistani platoon had been surrounded by a mob armed with swords and sticks giving surly stares. Judging the mood of the moment and sensing trouble, he had to think and act fast. “Joi (Jai) Bangla;” he shouted the greeting of ‘Mukti Bahini’ freedom fighters. The return greetings from the other side came as a great relief in those anxious moments. “We will take these dogs to the river and chop their heads off,” said the mob leader as he narrated the stories of Pakistan army’s alleged atrocities. Being outnumbered, any attempt to dissuade them from doing so could invite trouble, but then leaving the hapless khaki clad soldiers to be butchered was not an option. “Before beheading, wouldn’t it be better to humiliate them and let the entire world see how the ‘rascals’ lay down their arms and beg for mercy in front of TV cameras?” he suggested. The pause and murmur in the mob that followed gave a glimmer of hope. The mob leader deliberated upon the proposal for some time which felt like eons. After a while came a nod of approval, much to the relief of Pakistanis who stood there like plagued sinners unsure of their fate. The platoon “marched off” with weapons to the surrender venue, guarded by Indian troops. The gamble had paid off as his diplomatic skills saved many a life. “I quickly vanished among the milling troops thereby depriving the locals the thrill of the picture I had painted,” he spoke in a flat monotone.“My disappearing was an “un-soldierly” act and I had broken my promise as well,” he said, taking a deep breath. “Do not regret your decision. You may not have kept your word but you certainly upheld a soldier’s dharma,” I said, holding his hand and reassuring him. With every anecdote of life he narrates, I am awe struck of this gentleman, Brigadier Harwant Singh, who in addition to being a role model, is also my father. harrypal71@yahoo.co.in(The writer is a Mohali-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-a-promise-unkept-but-dharma-upheld-101635629522829.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hosiery worker accused of stealing ₹26 lakh from Ludhiana held in Bihar||Daresi police claimed to have solved a ₹26-lakh burglary case with the arrest of a hosiery worker, who had fled to Bihar with a bag containing cash and cheque books of his employer. The police arrested the accused, Rajesh Prajapati, from Rafiganj railway station in Aurangabad of Bihar as soon as he alighted from a train. The police have recovered ₹15 lakh from his possession.Daresi station house officer Davinder Singh said they were in process of questioning the accused to recover the remaining money, but he claimed that there was only ₹15 lakh in the bag. The accused, who was working in a hosiery factory in Sundar Nagar, had on October 24 stolen the bag containing cash and fled. A case under Section 381 of the IPC was registered against him. He was in contact with his wife over the phone after the incident, through which the police traced him. Assistant commissioner of police (north) Dharmpal said they had formed several teams to nab the accused. “One of the teams was dispatched to Bihar. The team on Friday arrested the accused from Rafiganj railway station before he could reach his home,” he added. The accused told the police that he had seen his employer keeping cash in a drawer. “Rajesh said he had never seen such a huge amount of money, so he decided to steal it,” the ACP said. The hosiery unit owner has around 150 employees and he has not got police verification of any of the workers done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hosiery-worker-accused-of-stealing-26-lakh-from-ludhiana-held-in-bihar-101635629041563.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Salubrious Sunday | A reader, but not necessarily a finisher||I was recently interviewing a senior professional on Zoom. Seeing a dense book board behind me, he asked, “So what are you reading currently?” “Three books, actually. Bird by Bird by Anne Lamott. Languages of Truth by Salman Rushdie. And Love, Life, and Elephants by Daphne Sheldrick.” Pop came the question. “So when will you finish them?” Silence. I had no answer. While the interview progressed, I parked the question for my introspection later. When would I ‘finish’ reading a book or even the many books I was reading simultaneously? It was a pretty plain question, right? But I could not get myself to give even a vaguely ambiguous answer, such as in a month or so or over the next two weeks. Any attempt to do that put me in extreme discomfort. And that discomfort got me thinking. The only certain and honest response I could come up with was “I don’t know.” Why? Because I have never looked at books as objects that needed to be finished. Rather, I have always seen books as a companion. A companion with my chai. A companion that I meet during my work breaks. A companion that sits on my lap when I settle down on the rug around sunset. A companion that I hold with both hands at my favourite bench in the garden on Sunday. A companion that I spend time with, every night, under the soft glow of my bed lamp. A companion that sits in my backpack. A companion I turn to whenever I need to find my centre. And while I’m in these periods of companionship, varying between 5 minutes to a few hours, I’m in an alternate world, like many readers, time travelling, dramatising, dreaming. I wonder what the author must think when she or he wrote what they wrote. I imagine the characters saying what they say and occasionally import myself in the story and wonder what I’d say to them in that scene. If my phone rings during that time, I put it away as I am already conversing with my companion. I smell the paper, jump pages, come back to the earlier pages, read the last chapter, and again go back to reading from where I dropped off, read and re-read, following eccentric patterns in a no-rules companionship. And while I am doing all that, the last thing on my mind is, ‘When will this be over!’ ‘By which date will I reach the final page?’ The timeline is something that is a practical reality. The book will finish at some point in time. For some books it may be a day for others it may be months. And for some, it may be never. But that would be a natural fallout and not a guiding factor when I open the first page. Probably, that’s the reason I have never been able to get myself to participate in a 100-books-a-year challenge and so on. I’m not a fast reader who devours one book after another at a speed that is celebrated. But I am not a slow reader too as my reading speed is pretty decent. So, if I had to describe the kind of reader I am, I guess the best-case scenario is, “I’m a reader. A person who reads regularly.” And that’s that. A reader who enjoys the companionship of a book undefined by when it starts and when it ends. A companionship that thrives on reading for the sheer joy of reading. No boundaries, no milestones, no metrics, no race. A companionship that allows one to be a finisher and a non-finisher. anushasingh3@gmail.com ( The writer is a Mumbai-based corporate communications consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/salubrious-sunday-a-reader-but-not-necessarily-a-finisher-101635628982833.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity Buzz: No Diwali for us, say sacked NHM staff in Chandigarh||National Health Mission (NHM) employees had organised a farewell for Dr Amandeep Kang when she was retiring as director, health services, Chandigarh, in September because she had assured them of a salary hike. But soon after Dr Suman Singh took charge as director, the NHM employees were told to either opt for revised working conditions for a hike or work at the same salary with the same working conditions. When they protested, the UT health department terminated the services of 178 employees. “The health department took just two hours to terminate our services. We were not even allowed to enter the hospital. Before retiring, Dr Kang should have clarified the conditions or should have ensured our salary hike in reality instead of just on paper. Our festivals have been ruined despite our services,” said a former NHM employee, requesting anonymity. Chandigarh BJP councillors pin down senior MC official It was a scene straight out of a Bollywood court drama. The “cross-examining” of a senior Chandigarh Municipal Corporation official by angry BJP councillors left everybody stunned at the general house meeting last week. Like an accused facing a team of prosecution lawyers in a “katgarha (witness box)”, the MC official was standing in the well of the House, while the councillors questioned him over the delay in floating tenders for sanitation work in the southern sectors. With no support coming either from his colleagues or Congress councillors, the official cut a sorry figure. He had recently suffered a heart attack and was reduced to tears. During lunch, he was seen being consoled by a few councillors and the MC commissioner. When thieves didn’t even spare soft toys! Thieves struck at the Government Primary School at Naraingarh Jungian in Mohali district on October 28 and took away two LCDs, a sound system with pen drive, a gas stove, drawing material and even soft toys for students. The staff was shocked to see the lock of the door broken when they arrived the next morning. A police complaint has been lodged but there’s no trace of the desperate thieves. Hoax bomb call puts Chandigarh cops to test Chandigarh Police have been conducting mock drills to stay alert but their quick response was put to the test with a bomb call last week. Though the call turned out to be a hoax, it revealed their reaction. During the mock drill, all senior officials are prompt to reach the spot, but when the call of a bomb at a bank in Sector 40 was received, it only brought the station house officer and his team to the spot. The delayed response was attributed to a mock drill at a mall in Industrial Area! When director, schools, relieved her school days Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, Chandigarh, had put up an eco-friendly exhibition on Friday for which director, school education, Palika Arora was the chief guest. Teachers said Arora had studied at the Sacred Heart School in Amritsar and recounted her own days as she praised children for their efforts. Students had reused newspapers to create 3D models on themes such as environment, war and peace and Chandigarh, the City Beautiful. Two nominated senators lose PUTA elections The two candidates nominated to the Panjab University (PU) senate by vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor, lost during the recently held elections to the PU teachers’ body. Both the candidates where contesting from Manu Sharma’s team that is pitched against the group led by Mritunjay Kumar. Mritunjay Kumar and his team managed to win all key posts in the Panjab University Teachers’ Association election, making it their fifth victory in a row. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Mandeep Narula and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-no-diwali-for-us-say-sacked-nhm-staff-in-chandigarh-101635628921752.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana robbery bid: Robbers reached city 9 days ago, did recce, say police||Investigating the robbery attempt at Muthoot Fincorp’s Sundar Nagar office, the police found that the accused had come to Ludhiana on October 21 with intention to execute the crime. They did recce of the branch as well to ascertain the number of employees, cash and jewellery kept in the strong room.The police also established a link between the robbers and the perpetrators of a similar robbery bid at Muthoot Finance’s Dugri Road branch on October 16, 2020. All six robbers involved in the crime were from Bihar and had come to Ludhiana to execute robbery, the police said. After entering the branch, the accused told the staff that they wanted to meet the manager who wore glasses, which showed that they had details of the staffers, the police said. They assumed that they would overpower the staff, one manager, three women employees and a security guard, easily, but their plan was foiled after the security guard shot one of them dead. According to the sources, the robbers were fully prepared for a gunfight as they were carrying arms and ammunition with them. The police have found a loaded pistol from the possession of the dead robber along with a magazine and bullets in his pockets. In the last year’s robbery attempt at Muthoot Finance’s Dugri Road office, the police had arrested three accused – Roshan Kumar alias Tatiya, 23; Saurav Kumar, 19, and Kamlesh Kumar, 25, all from Bihar. Their accomplices who had managed to escape were Sushil Kumar, Alok Kumar and Varun of Patna. At that time, the Model Town police had recovered 30 bullets, five magazines, four mobile phones, three motorcycles, tape rolls, pieces of ropes, nail cutter and two hammers from their possession.Assistant commissioner of police (North) Dharmpal said the police were investigating to identify the accommodation the accused were staying in after reaching Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-robbery-bid-robbers-reached-city-9-days-ago-did-recce-say-police-101635628503512.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dry weather likely to continue in Chandigarh||Dry weather is likely to continue in the coming days as per the India meteorological department (IMD) with the temperature likely to continue along similar lines for now.An IMD official said, “With no likely western disturbances in the coming days, the weather is likely to remain unchanged. The temperature will start to fall afterwards in November.”The maximum temperature went down from 30.2°C on Friday to 29.3°C on Saturday. The minimum temperature went down from 14.3°C on Friday to 13.9 °C on Saturday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 29°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 14°C and 15 °C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dry-weather-likely-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101635628501775.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Develop green waste compost plants, Ambala MC tells schools||The municipal corporation, Ambala, has told government and private schools to develop green waste compost plants and waste segregation at the source, where manure created from plants can be used by them. It would also help reduce garbage dump load on the civic body, officials said. At a workshop organised at the Panchayat Bhawan under the Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) on Thursday, 180 representatives of various schools, officers of the education department and NGOs learnt methods of garbage disposal and segregation. At the kick-off event, teachers and principals were sensitised about the role of institutes in waste management and others by Naresh Bhardwaj from the Green Earth NGO and MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata. He said schools have been asked to add proper garbage disposal and segregation as an extra-curricular activity and organise competitions on the topic. Jarnail Singh, executive officer, said a sample set of dustbins would be kept at Baldev Nagar government schools for boys and girls with separate disposal of waste pen-like material and plastic multilayer waste. “The schools will be asked to visit the sample school to understand the process and replicate at their premises with their own funds. We might provide economic help in unique cases,” he said. From November 1, sanitation branch officials will also visit schools to provide training to teachers on segregation and compositing. “Later, teachers will teach students about the cleaning activities and students in return will submit a weekly report to their parents on how they used separate dustbins for their waste disposal. We’ll award best students every quarter through the schools,” Khadgata said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/develop-green-waste-compost-plants-ambala-mc-tells-schools-101635628441828.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mullana former sarpanch fined ₹25k for not furnishing information under RTI||Haryana information commissioner Arun Sangwan has imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the former sarpanch of Mullana village in Ambala’s Barara block, Naresh Chauhan, for not furnishing information sought by a resident under the RTI Act. The former sarpanch is also the state public information officer (SPIO) in the case. The commissioner, during a hearing held on October 14, has also ordered issuing a notice to gram sachiv (secretary), Netarpal Singh asking him to explain why disciplinary action should not be initiated against him for not dealing with the application. He has been asked to submit his reply by December 14. The next hearing has been fixed for January 10, 2022. As per the commission’s order made available on Friday, the secretary, who is also the assistant state public information officer (ASPIO), has been asked to furnish the information free of cost to the applicant, Vinod Kumar, within two weeks of receipt of this order. The area BDPO has been asked to ensure compliance with the directions. Kumar said through his application, he had asked for the usage of development funds in his village from 2016 to 2020. However, during the recent hearing, he asked for action against the SPIO and ASPIO for not furnishing the information despite the commission’s order to do so earlier this year. The order reads, “The commission observed that the gram sachiv has given in written on February 5 that the information will be provided within 14 days, which indicates that the information is available in the record, but the same has not been provided by the SPIO intentionally.” It said that a show-cause notice sent to the SPIO, now withdrawn, was also received back undelivered with the remarks of postal authorities ‘refused’ as on October 5. “This again shows that he is deliberately avoiding and not providing the information which violates the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005. Therefore, he has rendered himself for penal action,” it reads. Meanwhile, Chauhan said he was not aware of any such order or fine imposed against him as the panchayat was dissolved on February 27, pending elections. “I had given all information asked twice last year. The applicant has done illegal encroachments in the village due to which he and his family members are trying to intimidate me through such methods,” he said. On being asked about any action on the said encroachment, he said he had filed a complaint with the BDPO for necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mullana-former-sarpanch-fined-rs-25k-for-not-furnishing-information-under-rti-101635628381677.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Check sale of ‘fake’ biodiesel, Punjab petroleum dealers urge govt||The Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association (PPDA) has urged the state government to take note of ‘fake’ biodiesel which is affecting traders and also revenue of the government. Members of the association alleged that an oil base/chemical oil/industrial grade product was being sold illegally through mobile vans in the market in the name of biodiesel.Association president Sandeep Sehgal said, “Due to the availability of this form of fuel at less price than diesel, most of the vehicles have shifted to biodiesel. Oil marketing companies (OMCs) have also registered a massive cut in the sale of high-speed diesel. Motor speed and high-speed diesel vehicles have also shifted to the BS-6 category despite huge government investment. Due to the negligence of the government, low-grade oil is being sold illegally in the market to meet the demand of the market, which needs to be curbed, otherwise, the loss of government revenue will continue.”Sehgal added that the service of delivering fuel door-to-door had been started for those heavy machines or vehicles which could not reach the petrol pump. “But it is seen that government and OMC orders are being flouted openly and their access is being extended to motorable, passenger and agricultural vehicles, which is directly causing loss to the petrol pump owners,” he said and added that action must be taken against those indulging in this.The association also expressed concern over the higher VAT rate in Punjab as compared to Chandigarh. Association’s general secretary Rajesh Kumar said about 1,000 petrol pumps of Punjab adjoining Chandigarh and other states were on the verge of closure. Fuel prices have been increasing for the past four days and Mohali continues to have the most expensive petrol and diesel in the Tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/check-sale-of-fake-biodiesel-punjab-petroleum-dealers-urge-govt-101635628323973.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sunset boulevard| Slacking in golden years may dull the silver||Gather ye rose-buds while ye may, Old Time is still a-flying; And this same flower that smiles today Tomorrow will be dying. Over the centuries, bards have immortalised several songs on youth and age. Typically, these songs extol the bounties, exuberance, vitality, ephemeralness and infinite opportunities associated with youth. However, in this century, those in the ripe years of their lives cannot be written off, thanks to the increase in life expectancy and longevity driven by better diagnostic and medical facilities. Nowadays, seniors, all across the world, are looking at and exploring opportunities hitherto unheard of. In Tier-2 cities such as Chandigarh, the elderly are members of senior citizen clubs. Round the year competitions and talent shows are held out to highlight their singing, dancing and modelling abilities, while the adventurous dare devils also try their hand at activities such as skydiving and scuba diving. In short, life has come a full circle for many. In the midst of celebrating youth and old age, the middle age has somewhat become an age of indifference, and is unequivocally the most neglected stage of life. This period that ranges from the mid-thirties to the late fifties is the great epoch of responsibilities– setting career goals, charting the progress graph, settling down and shouldering domestic responsibilities.By the time, all of one’s personal and professional aspirations are achieved, it is time to monitor the personal and professional targets of one’s children and assist them in realising those dreams and desires. In the humdrum of this existence, we tend to overlook the fact that middle age happens to be the foundation of old age. To enjoy a healthy and comfortable life in the twilight zone, here are a few stepping stones that must be laid in the ‘afternoon of life’– a phrase given by Carl Jung who believed that, “The afternoon of life is just as full of meaning as the morning; only, its meaning and purpose are different.” 1. Stay healthy and fit: I recently read somewhere, “your health is an investment, not an expense.” Remember, investing in monetary assets alone, does not guarantee a happy and comfortable old age. Dig out your walking shoes from the closet now and don them for a better tomorrow. An exercise regimen of 30 minutes a day can do wonders to your body. Generally, people tend to neglect their health or take it for granted in the middle years, what with all the hustle and bustle of life. It is during this period that we tend to acquire lifestyle diseases along with extra layers of fat. Go for a swim once a week, cycling, aerobics, yoga or walking– anything to stay healthy! 2. Take out some ‘me’ time: The world around you – the society, your family and your loved ones – unquestionably needs you and you must answer to their call, but once in a while follow your heart and the golden rule: ‘Be you, the world will adjust’. The heavens will not collapse, should you choose to carve out some time to love and pamper yourself. Once a while, take out some ‘me’ time and do what your heart desires. 3. Develop a Hobby:  It is never too late to develop a hobby, but its best done sooner than later. You are mistaken if you think that one fine day when you are sixty and retired, you will jump out of your bed and declare, “Oh! This is my hobby and I shall now pursue it.” If you do not wish to die of boredom in your ripe age, middle age is the right time to start a hobby. If you already have one, keep the flame burning. Take up cycling, trekking, reading, singing, playing an instrument or anything that interests you. Gardening is an excellent hobby that not only keeps you on your toes but also in close proximity with nature. 4. Take short breaks: ‘What is this life, if full of care, We have no time to stand and stare’. Wordsworth could foresee the life of future generations and therefore recommended taking break once in a while. Spend quality time with your friends and family. Not only does it break the monotony of a busy life but also acts as future investment in the bank of relationships. 5. Go for regular checkups:  Do not ignore your body’s call. During middle age, your body sends you definite signals of forthcoming maladies. Ignore these signals now to regret in the later years. If you do not wish to spend your precious post-retirement years on life-support mechanism, go for a regular full body checkup every six months or at least once a year. 6. Give back to society : A friend once said, “Ever since I got my first salary, I decided to give 5% of it back to society.” You may not be able to contribute financially but you can definitely give something back in the form of voluntary service. sonrok15@gmail.com(The writer is an associate professor at SD College, Ambala Cantt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunset-boulevard-slacking-in-golden-years-may-dull-the-silver-101635628202063.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||5 lakh people to get second Covid vaccine dose within the week in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on Saturday directed officers to administer the second dose of Covid vaccine to 5 lakh people who are due to receive the said dose within the week.While chairing a meeting to review the public health response to Covid, he asked the divisional and district administrators to ensure coverage to 5 lakh people who have completed the mandatory interregnum period and are due to receive the second jab within a week.“The chief secretary emphasised on early culmination of Covid vaccination drives to ensure safety of the local population once the economy is fully opened with resumption of all economic activities, reopening of schools, and large scale tourism activities,” the government said.The health and medical education department was asked to ensure regular supply of vaccines to the districts, besides enhancing their testing facilities for early detection of infections and emerging hotspots.Mehta impressed upon the district administration, Srinagar to remain vigilant to any surge in cases and focus intensively on daily testing of vulnerable population in consonance to the trajectory of infections. “Special focus is to be laid on early testing and isolation of symptomatic patients having influenza like infections (ILIs) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARIs) due to the sudden change in season” he added.101 fresh Covid cases in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 101 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Of the total cases,90 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 11 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 87 with active positive cases reaching 886. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 63,155 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.4 crore.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 447 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 131 and 89 active cases respectively.Officials said with 42 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 25 cases in Baramulla with no or single-digit cases in the other 17 districts.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,836 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.39%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,32,154 and the death toll 4,432.Officials said that 39,002 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. Jammu has the highest, 1,145 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 846 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-lakh-people-to-get-second-covid-vaccine-dose-within-the-week-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101635628143814.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC clears way for constructing cycle track in town||The municipal corporation, Mohali, has cleared the way for constructing cycle tracks in the town. In the meeting of the finance and contract committee held under the chairmanship of mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu passed the estimate and approved to construct the track for which ₹81 lakh has been earmarked for the first phase of the cycle track. Speaking on the occasion, the mayor said the traffic in Mohali was continuously increasing and with it the number of road accidents involving cyclists was also increasing. He said for this purpose an estimate had been passed in the meeting of the finance and contract committee for the construction of the cycle track. He said under the first phase this cycle track would be constructed from the Industrial Area, Phase 8B, Airport Road to Mohali village via Spice Chowk at a cost of ₹81 lakh. The mayor said a large number of industrial workers on this road come on bicycles. The traffic on this road was heavy. He said a large number of workers from the Balongi side also come on this road on bicycles and for their safety, it was necessary to build this cycle track. He said there were also cycling clubs in Mohali which were demanding the construction of cycle tracks and this demand was being met with. He said after the completion of the first phase, cycling tracks would be constructed all over the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-clears-way-for-constructing-cycle-track-in-town-101635628141621.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||21-year-old killed in mishap while crossing road in Kharar||A 21-year-old BBA final year student was crushed to death under the wheels of a truck while he was crossing a road in Kharar on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Hardeep Singh, 21, Sangrur. The truck driver was apprehended by the friends of the deceased from near the Kharar bus stand who later handed him over to the police. He is a student of CGC, Landran, and was in his BBA final year. Ekum, a friend of the deceased, told the police that he along with his friends Abhishek Sapra, Hanjla and Hardeep stay in rented accommodation on the Landran road. All four were on their way to Kharar for dinner. At 9.30 pm when they were crossing a road at the Bhuru Chowk, a truck coming from the Banur side ran over his friend Hardeep. He alleged that the driver was smelling of liquor. Hardeep was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, where he was declared brought dead. The body had been handed over to the family members after a post-mortem. A case was registered under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC against the driver. He was later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21yearold-killed-in-mishap-while-crossing-road-in-kharar-101635628085494.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Deglur bypoll sees 63% turnout; result on November 2||The Deglur bypoll, which is a fight for prestige between the three ruling parties and the opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saw a turnout of 63.33%. Congress’s Jitesh Antapurkar, who has been fielded as Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) candidate, is facing BJP’s Subhash Sabne and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi’s Uttam Ingole. The counting will be held on November 2. The constituency saw good response since morning and had registered 60.95% turnout till 5pm and 48.47% till 3pm. A few voters had complained of disappearance of their names from the rolls in morning. The election machinery had to replace 11 electronic voting machines after they developed glitches. There were 298,353 registered voters, while the election machinery had set up 412 polling booths. “The voting will go on till 7pm. We are expecting the turnout to touch 66% to 67%. There are no major complaints of missing names. Amid the Covid-19 protocol, we had increased the number of polling booths by bringing the number of voters per booth down to 1,000 from 1,500. This may have resulted in the shifting of some names to other booths. We have rigorously implemented the drive for the addition of names of voters ahead of the poll. The EVMs which developed glitches during voting were replaced immediately,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. The election to the Assembly constituency in Nanded in central Maharashtra was necessitated because of the death of the sitting Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar in April this year. The constituency is reserved for Scheduled Caste. Congress has fielded his son Jitesh as the candidate of MVA. The candidate is facing BJP’s Subhash Sabne, who joined the party, defecting from Shiv Sena a day before filing nomination. Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi has fielded Dr Uttam Ingole. The MVA candidate believably has an upper hand for various reasons. “Though by poaching Shiv Sena leader and 3-term MLA Subhash Sabne ahead of filing of nomination, BJP tried to turn the table on ruling parties. The defection of Bhaskar Khatgaonkar changed the picture. KHatgaonkar, who has served three terms each in Assembly and Lok Sabha, has sizable influence in the constituency. The Maratha leader who is a hardcore Congress leader had defected to BJP in 2014 but never could be established in the party. His differences with sitting BJP MP Pratap Chikhalikar triggered his ‘ghar vapsi’ which will play in our favour,” said a Congress leader. Nanded is stronghold of Congress and citadel of state minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan. Most of the local bodies in the district are controlled by the party. The results of the bypoll will have direct bearing on the politics of the leader. Knowing this, the BJP has gone all out to win the election. The BJP leaders have claimed to repeat the history of Pandharpur bypoll in Deglur by snatching the seat from the ruling parties. In May this year, the BJP had defeated NCP candidate which was seen as the major defeat for the state government as the ruling parties had fought it collectively. The results of the bypoll could be an indication of the mood of the people ahead of major local body elections to be held early next year. BJP’s union minister Raosaheb Danve, Bhagwat Karad, state leaders Devendra Fadnavis, Chandrakant Patil, Ashish Shelar campaigned for the party candidate. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, social justice minister Dhanajay Munde, minority minister Nawab Malik (all NCP), Congress’s senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, Sushilkumar Shinde, Shiv Sena leader and junion minister Abdul Sattar campaigned for Antapurkar. Political analyst Hemant Desai said the bypoll will help the ruling or the opposition parties to score over each other depending upon the result. “Amid the ongoing fight between the BJP and MVA over in the wake of the Aryan Khan drug case and ahead of the forthcoming local body elections, the bypoll results are important. The victory will help them to turn the table on the opponents by giving it the colour of public sentiments. More than anything else, it’s a presige fight for Ashok Chavan as it will be viewed as his victory of defeat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deglur-bypoll-sees-63-turnout-result-on-november-2-101635628084433.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: SI, insurance firm told to pay ₹20.9-lakh compensation to family of accident victim||Three years after the death of a mason in a road accident, the motor vehicle claims tribunal had directed a sub-inspector in the transport battalion, ITB Police, Behlana, Chandigarh, who was driving the vehicle involved in the accident along with the insurance company to pay a compensation of ₹20.97 lakh to the victim’s family. The tribunal presided over by additional district and sessions judge Rajeev K Beri had ordered that the compensation would be paid “jointly and severally” by Santosh Kumar Sharma, posted as sub-inspector in transport battalion of the ITB Police, Behlana, Chandigarh, who was driving the car that caused the accident and Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Limited – that is the insurer of the vehicle. The claim was filed following the death of Vilash Mukhiya, 43, in September 2018 due to the injuries sustained in the accident. The claim was filed by his widow Rambha Devi, 41, and her children. The petition said Mukhiya, who succumbed to injuries on September 8, 2018, was working as a mason with JB and Company, Industrial Area, Phase-9, Mohali. On September 3, 2018, at 6.30 pm he along with his brother was on his way to Khanpur village. He was about to cross the road when a car driven by Sharma coming from the Kurali side hit Mukhiya in which he received a severe head injury and other grievous injuries. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, from where he was referred to the PGIMER and then to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. He was again referred back to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, where he succumbed to his injuries on September 8, 2018. A case under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC was registered in this regard. Meanwhile, denying that the accident was caused by him, Sharma said the deceased was hit by some other vehicle. He said he along with drivers of other vehicles had to stop their vehicles on the road because of the jam caused due to the accident on the national highway. He as well as the insurance company had prayed for the dismissal of the petition. However, Joginder Mukhiya, alias Yogi Mukhiya, an eyewitness, said the rashly driven car that hit his brother was driven by Sharma. He said Sharma had briefly stopped before driving away. He had later approached Mukhiya’s family assuring them to bear all medical expenses but later backtracked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-insurance-firm-told-to-pay-rs-20-9-lakh-compensation-to-family-of-accident-victim-101635627961646.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram retires||Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), retired on Saturday after over four decades in the profession. He served as the PGIMER director for four years and seven months and worked in various other capacities at the institute for 38 years. Dr Ram has been awarded with 35 national and international awards, including ‘Oscar in pediatric ophthalmology’ in Barcelona in 2015 and ‘Best of the Best Award’ in San Francisco in 2013 and again at New Orleans in 2016 for his trailblazing work in the world of cataract surgery. In 2018-19, Dr Ram was also awarded the prestigious Padma Shri by the President of India for his significant contributions in the field of medicine. Joining PGIMER in the department of ophthalmology in 1979 as resident doctor to becoming a prominent faculty in 1994, head of the department in 2015 and finally the director of PGIMER in March 2017, Dr Ram accomplished several exemplary feats during his 42-year-long journey with the institute, which include his visit to USA for a World Health Organisation (WHO) fellowship in advanced phacoemulsification in 1993 and then award of a second fellowship in 1998 in pediatric cataract surgery.In 1994, Dr Jagat Ram introduced the technique of phacoemulsification by replacing the older method of extracapsular cataract extraction (ECCE), while working at PGIMER as a faculty member. Almost a year later, he began to use the method to operate patients suffering from cataract blindness and was able to successfully restore their vision. In the last four decades, Dr Ram has successfully conducted over 90,000 cataract surgeries in adult patients and over 10,000 surgical procedures on children. He has also offered free eye-care services in over 130 relief and screening camps in rural areas. However, during the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Ram was criticised for admitting limited patients to the institute and for delaying the resumption of non-Covid services, especially reopening of the walk-in outpatient department of the institute.“The 42-year long journey in PGIMER is memorable. This is an institute of national importance, and a certain depth of dedication is required to be here where ethics cannot be compromised. Due to our team’s dedication, PGIMER has been the second-best medical institution in the country for four years successively,” said Dr Ram. Meanwhile, Dr Surjit Singh, head, department of pediatrics, PGIMER, has been given the officiating charge for the post of the director, from November 1 (Monday), for a period of six months or till such time the regular director is appointed, whichever is earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-director-dr-jagat-ram-retires-101635627721925.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir saw lowest Covid cases in 8 months in October||Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir logged 2,724 Covid infections in October, the lowest in the last eight months. This is lowest since February, when the first wave had receded and just 1,935 cases were reported. These two months have reported the lowest cases since March and April last year when the pandemic had started and 614 cases had been recorded cumulatively. In September this year, around 4,011 infections had been reported from the union territory. “There were apprehensions that the third wave might start by September 15. However, those predictions were wrong. God has been kind and there have been few Covid cases and deaths,” said Dr Owais H Dar, consultant at Government Medical College, Anantnag and former general secretary, Doctors’ Association of Kashmir. The monthly deaths also remained low as 10 people have succumbed to the disease in October so far, the same as September. This is the lowest since March and April last year, where there were eight deaths cumulatively. In February, when the first wave had subsided, 21 deaths were logged. In May, when the second wave was at its peak, 1,625 deaths were logged. The UT saw 37 deaths in March, 289 in April, 1,625 in May, 416 in June, 55 in July, 30 in August and 10 in September. Dr Dar said that there are multiple factors for Covid remaining under control in the union territory. “A lot of people got infected naturally in the first and second wave which increased the immunity among the community. Secondly, the vaccination drive was also rigorous. National and international travel is also limited and schools and colleges have mostly been closed which was one of the major factors of containment,” he said. October’s test positivity rate (TPR) in J&K– the percentage of tests turning positive out of the total tests conducted – also dropped to 0.20% from 0.27% in September. If TPR is below 5%, it indicates that the infection is under control in the community. October’s TPR is lowest since the second Covid wave peaked in May. In June, July and August, it was 1.80%, 0.32% and 0.23% respectively. The average daily tests conducted in the union territory have been consistently reducing since July. The data reveals that on an average 43,635 tests were conducted daily in October so far, against 49,374 daily tests in September, 53,359 in August and 56,719 in July. Overall, the union territory conducted 13.09 lakh tests in October (till Oct 30), as against September when 14.81 lakh tests were carried out. In August, 16.54 lakh tests were conducted. The vaccination drive over the past two months has been very rigorous. Around 65 lakh people have been vaccinated in J&K with one or both doses during this period. Experts now hope that the Covid-19 may likely become a seasonal illness similar to flu thatpeaks in fall and winter and its impact in terms of deaths, illness and the need for social isolation will lessen. “Covid-19 pandemic will end at some point, but the virus will continue to circulate in the human population. But, that will happen when the pandemic phase of the virus is over,” said influenza expert Dr Nisar Ul Hassan. “Covid is still in a pandemic phase as infections continue to increase across the globe and many people are still susceptible. Vaccination is critical to end the pandemic phase of the virus,” he said. In October, 31.56 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the union territory till now. In September, over 33.78 lakh people were jabbed, 18.5 lakh in August, 16.76 lakh in July, 12.36 lakh in June and 9.49 lakh in May. Till October 30, the UT has administered a total of 1.459 doses. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,836 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.39%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,32,154 and the death-toll has reached 4,432. The Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities with 1,145, followed by Srinagar with 846 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-saw-lowest-covid-cases-in-8-months-in-october-101635627542429.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||No dengue death in Chandigarh tricity area after five days||In a breather for health authorities and residents, no new dengue death was reported in the tricity on Saturday for the fifth consecutive day.As many as 128 more dengue cases surfaced in the tricity on the day, of which Mohali had 75. Chandigarh reported 37 new cases while Panchkula had 16 fresh infections. The UT has so far recorded 854 dengue cases, of which 770 surfaced in October. Three persons have also succumbed to the disease here. Of the fresh cases, the maximum came from Manimajra, Burail and Daria, while the rest were from other rural and urban areas.Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 2,531. The district has seen 31 deaths, of which 29 took place this month. This is the highest toll since 2018 when eight people had died. In 2019 and 2020, only one fatality each was confirmed. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 570, with one dengue death so far this year.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said, “Although the cases have declined in the last two days, the fight is not over yet.”UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Dengue cases are still being reported in Chandigarh and people need to be extra vigilant. We are conducting regular fogging in affected areas and are organising awareness campaigns. Also, challans are being issued to violators. There is no shortage of medicines, platelets or testing kits in Chandigarh hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-dengue-death-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-after-five-days-101635627481685.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Scuffle between two groups turns violent in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed in Dashmesh Nagar after two groups of transgenders indulged in a scuffle following a dispute over area of operation on Friday. One of the groups had gone to Dashmesh Nagar for alms and gifts from a family on the birth of a baby boy, where another group turned up and a brawl ensued.One of the transgenders suffered injuries in the incident. The Division Number 6 police have registered an FIR against seven persons — Ravina Mahant, Pooja, Chandani, Divya, and their accomplices Hifazat and Shiv Kumar — while three of the accused have yet to be identified.The FIR has been lodged by Sheetal, 40, of Khwaja Kothi. In her complaint, she accused the other group of thrashing her. The victim also added that there was a dispute between the two groups over the area of operation and a case in that matter is also pending in a court.ASI Major Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) of IPC. A hunt is on for to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scuffle-between-two-groups-turns-violent-in-ludhiana-101635627301687.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Active Covid cases cross 2K-mark in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid tally rose to 2,24,021 after 145 more people tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The death toll mounted to 3,737 after two patients succumbed to the infection. Forty-six cases were reported from Kangra, 32 from Hamirpur, 21 from Mandi, 16 from Shimla, 15 from Bilaspur, seven from Una, six from Chamba and one each from Kinnaur and Solan. The active case count crossed 2,056, while recoveries reached 2,18,212 after 62 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 50,778 cases,followed by 31,602 cases in Mandi and 27,545 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-covid-cases-cross-2k-mark-in-himachal-101635627241422.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man assaults 10-year-old, his grandparents over tussle among kids||Following a scuffle between children, a Phullanwal resident allegedly slammed a 10-year-old boy against a wall and thrashed his grandparents, police said on Saturday. Grandfather of the boy, a former armyman, suffered severe head injuries and was rushed to a hospital. The Sadar police have booked Dilpreet Singh alias Babbal. According to the victim, the accused was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident.The FIR has been lodged by Harjinder Kaur, 55, who said her grandson Ram Meet had a scuffle with some children. “As Ram Meet entered home, Dilpreet, father of one of the children, followed him and started abusing everyone,” she added. The woman alleged that the accused slammed her grandson against a wall. “When we intervened, Dilpreet Singh thrashed me and my husband Asa Ram, 65, too,” she added. The accused managed to flee from the spot, the complainant said. ASI Gurpreet Singh, who is investigating the case, said the FIR has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC against Dilpreet Singh. The doctors in their report mentioned that the injury on the head of the elderly person was serious in nature, he added.A hunt is on to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-assaults-10-year-old-his-grandparents-over-tussle-among-kids-101635626941506.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll:100% voting at world’s highest polling station Tashigang||Sitting at an altitude of 15,256 feet above sea level, Tashigang village, the world’s highest polling station, witnessed 100% voting on Saturday as residents exercised their franchise for the Mandi parliamentary bypoll. The village has a strength of 70, of which 47 are eligible to vote. “The registered electorate had cast its vote till 5pm,” said Kaza sub-divisional magistrate Mahendear Pratap Singh. Residents wore their traditional dresses to the polling booth, which had also been decorated. Kaza additional district magistrate Mohan Dutt Sharma also wore the traditional attire at the polling booth. The polling station was set up in Tashigang ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Before that Hikkim, a tiny settlement positioned at an altitude of around 14,400ft, had been the highest polling station in the country.Situated around 29-km from the Chinese border, the polling station covers two villages— Tashigang and Gete. As per electoral rolls, the village has 47 voters – 29 men and 18 women. “It was a moment of pride to vote at the world’s highest polling station,” said Tashi,19, a first time voter. The sleepy hamlet also has the distinction of being the highest village in Spiti valley. At present, the road connecting Tashigang to the mainland is closed to traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-100-voting-at-world-s-highest-polling-station-tashigang-101635626761804.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB report 2020: Mental illness drove 144 people to commit suicide in Ludhiana||Mental illnesses were the main reason behind the suicide of at least 144 people in Ludhiana in 2020, which is 40.56% of total figure, states the NCRB data. As many as 355 people, including 91 women, ended their lives in 2020. The city witnessed an increase of 39.8% in suicides as compared to 2019. Seven men had committed suicide due to unemployment and eight took the extreme step due to professional or career problems. One rape victim also ended her life in 2020. According to Dr Rajiv Sharma, consultant psychologist, many people lost their jobs during the Covid outbreak and subsequent lockdowns, and faced losses in business, which led them to take extreme step. He added that lockdown was difficult for people belonging to different walks of life. “It affected people psychologically, emotionally, physically and financially. Income of households was adversely affected due to lockdown and with many people losing jobs, depression was prevalent among people,” he added.In 2019, the number of suicides was 254, while in 2018, a total of 194 people had died by suicide. In 2020, the reason behind most of the suicide cases was illness – mental and physical. A total of 159 people, including 56 women, ended their lives due to this. Reason behind 31 suicide cases was marriage-related issue.In all 355 suicides 264 were men and 91 were women. Five people had taken the extreme step due to bankruptcy or debts. Thirty-one people, including 13 women, had killed themselves over marriage-related issues, out of whom one woman had chosen death due to dowry harassment. Five of them, including three women, had ended their lives due to extramarital affairs. Failure in examination had led to suicides of three persons, including one girl. Impotency/infertility caused two suicides, out of which one victim was a woman. Two men and one woman had committed suicide due to family issues.Three persons, including two women, had committed suicide after death of their dear ones. Ten men had ended their lives due to drug abuse and alcohol addiction. Similarly, love affairs caused eight suicides, including those of one woman and seven men. Poverty drove 10 men and three women to end their lives, while 16 people, including two women, committed suicide over property disputes. One woman had committed suicide due to physical abuse, the data revealed.Case that shocked the cityOn November 24, 2020, Rajiv Sunda, 60, a builder and realtor who lived in Ludhiana’s Mayur Vihar, had hacked four members of his family – including his wife Sunita Sunda, 58, son Ashish Sunda, 35, daughter-in-law Garima Sunda, 32, and grandson Suchet, 12, to death with an axe and knife before fleeing in his Maruti Suzuki Swift car only to set it ablaze and go missing. The car was found burnt on Humbran Road, 4km from his house. A suicide note was recovered from the house in which Rajiv Sunda had claimed that he had taken the extreme step as his daughter-in-law used to threaten to implicate him in a fake dowry case. He had also mentioned that family members of his daughter-in-law had not returned his money which they had borrowed and were now trying to extort more money by threatening him. On the same day, Rajiv Sunda had ended his life by jumping before moving train in Jagraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-report-2020-mental-illness-drove-144-people-to-commit-suicide-in-ludhiana-101635626643526.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Seven test positive for Covid in Chandigarh tricity area||Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Saturday, a significant drop from 12 cases on Friday. As many as six cases were reported from Chandigarh alone, followed by one from Mohali. Panchkula, however, reported no new infection on Saturday. Also, no death was recorded for the 25th consecutive day here.In Chandigarh, the infections surfaced from Sectors 9, 19, 24, 35 and 52. Tricity’s active case tally also rose to 77 on Saturday, with 34 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 29 in Mohali and 14 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,346 positive cases, of which 64,492 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,818. Among these, 67,721 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,769 includes 30, 377 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101635626641684.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Poor quality denture lands hospital in soup||For providing a denture of “not of very high quality”, leading to the harassment of a Phase 10 resident amid the 2020 lockdown, the district consumer disputes redressal commission, Mohali, directed the hospital to refund ₹15,000 charged for the denture with 9% interest. Disposing of the complaint filed by GS Chhabra, the district consumer commission directed Guru Harkrishan Sahib (c) Eye Hospital Trust, Sohana, also known as Sohana Hospital, to pay ₹1,500 as compensation for the mental agony and harassment he suffered. Chhabra said he had approached Sohana Hospital for implanting a denture on March 26, 2019 and paid ₹15,000 for the preparation of the denture after persuasion by a doctor at the hospital. He was asked to choose from three dentures of varying costs. He said he visited the hospital eight times for measurements and reshaping. He alleged that on April 8, 2020, while cleaning the denture with a brush and soap solution, the lower denture slipped from his hand, fell on the floor of the bathroom and broke into two pieces. He said on April 8, 2020, as Mohali was under lockdown, it was not possible for him to approach the hospital for repairs of the denture. He had also called the hospital but was told they are closed. Finding no alternative, Chhabra sought the help of the police to collect the broken denture and deliver it to a dental care clinic in Sector 68 from where he got it repaired. He said then again on July 30, while eating fruits, one of the teeth got separated from the denture plate and similarly on August 7, while having breakfast, another tooth also got separated. On October 13, another tooth got separated from the denture plate while he was having breakfast. So, he had to visit a dental clinic in Sector 68 four times during a period of six months for the repair of the denture. Guru Harkrishan Sahib (c) Eye Hospital Trust, Sohana, was issued notice but as none appeared on their behalf, they were proceeded ex parte. ‘Deficiency writ large’ The district consumer disputes redressal commission held “it was incumbent upon the hospital to bring sufficient evidence on file to prove that a very high quality material was used while preparing the implanted denture and there was no deficiency in service on their part.” The district consumer commission added, “In the instant case, it is an admitted fact that the hospital had given three options to Chhabra to choose a denture having three different prices and he opted for the most expensive one. These three options were given by the doctor. This shows that the doctor was fully conversant with the fact that the material used or supplied to her by the hospital was not of very high quality and it was possible that the denture could break even if it falls from very little height. “It is also an admitted fact that Chhabra had to undergo mental as well as physical harassment at the hands of the hospital. Deficiency in service on the part of hospital is writ large.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-poor-quality-denture-lands-hospital-in-soup-101635626161627.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||66% turnout in Himachal bypolls||More than 66% of 15.36 lakh registered voters exercised their franchise at the four Himachal bypolls – one parliamentary and three assembly – that concluded on Saturday.The Mandi parliamentary constituency, which is incidentally the second largest in the country, witnessed approximately 57.73% polling. Chief electoral officer C Paulrasu said the figures may go up as the data is still being compiled.Among the assembly constituencies, Jubbal-Kotkhai recorded the highest voter turnout at 78.69%. Of 70,792 electorates, 55,708 turned up to cast their vote, of which 28,827 (81.9%) were men and 26,881 (75.45%) women.Fatehpur recorded 66.2% polling and Arki 61.33%. As many as 56,726 of 87,222 voters exercised their franchise in Fatehpur exercised their franchise. “At 82.25%, the highest polling was recorded at Patti booth and lowest at 54.11% at Riyali,” said district electoral officer Nipun Jindal.In the 2017 assembly elections, Fatehpur had recorded over 70% polling and 69% in the 2019 general elections.Jindal said polling went on smoothly and there was no incidence of poll violence. “EVMs malfunctioned at some polling booths in Kullu and were replaced immediately. Polling was slow in the initial hours but eventually gathered pace,” he said.A total 2,774 polling booths were setup across the four constituencies. The election results will be declared on November 2.18 candidates in frayThere are a total 18 candidates in the fray—six in Mandi, five in Fatehpur, three in Arki and four in Jubbal-Kotkhai.Polling is being held across 2,365 booths in 17 assembly segments of six districts, including Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Shimla, that comprise the Mandi parliamentary seat.The main contest in Mandi is between Congress’ Pratibha Singh, who is a two-time former MP, and BJP’s brigadier Khushal Thakur, who is making his electoral debut. The election is significant as Mandi is the home district of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and will be the litmus test of his popularity.Triangular contests in Jubbal-Kotkhai, FatehpurThe Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituency in Shimla and Fatehpur in Kangra saw three-cornered contest. Bypoll in Jubbal-Kotkhai was necessitated after the death of incumbent MLA Narinder Bragta and that in Fatehpur was necessitated due to the death of sitting Congress legislator Sujan Singh Pathania.Denied a ticket by the BJP, Chetan Bragta, the son of the late MLA, is contesting as an independent. He is being challenged by Congress’ Rohit Thakur, the grandson of former chief minister Thakur Ram Lal, and Neelam Saraik of the BJP.Congress has fielded the late legislator’s son Bhawani Singh Pathania from the Fatehpur assembly. He will slug it out against BJP’s Baldev Thakur and former MP Rajan Sushant who is in the fray as an independent. In Arki, Congress’ Sanjay Awasthi will compete against BJP’s Rattan Pal Singh.Kinnaur villagers boycott pollsMeanwhile, villagers of three panchcyats in Kinnaur district boycotted the polls in protest against the Jangi Thopan hydropower project and non-implementation of the Forest Rights Act.The three panchayts are Jangi, Apka and Rarang. Gian Kumar, a local activist from Akpa panchcyat, said only four votes were polled in Akpa panchcyat of 298. “Only the polling staff cast their vote,” he said. Notably, the Forest Rights Committee had also given a call to use NOTA in the elections.“No political party is clear about the Forest Rights Act. Most panchayats in Kinnaur are still unaware of their rights. We had given a call to press NOTA button to lodge our protest,” says Jiya Lal Negi, president, Forest Right Act Committee Kinnaur.“Now, election results will revel how many people have used NOTA to protest against power projects,” he added. Voters in Ahlemi, Klans, Jagat, Balmuin and Klah booth of Bharmour area of Chamba also boycotted elections over non-fulfilment of their demands for roads and mobile connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/66-turnout-in-himachal-bypolls-101635626101577.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB report: At 48%, Chandigarh saw biggest dip in road crashes||City Beautiful recorded a 48.4% decline in fatal and non-fatal accidents in 2020, as compared to the previous year, the Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India report, released by the National Crime Records Bureau, has revealed. This is the highest percentage dip among all states and UTs.As per the report, 304 accidents were reported in Chandigarh in 2019 while the number has gone down to 157 in 2020. Andaman and Nicobar stands second with a 38.7% decline while Sikkim is third with a 37.2% decline.Due to the restrictions induced by the pandemic, the number of accidents has gone down throughout the country. An overall 18.9% decline has been reported in the country while the overall decline among states is 18.8% and among UTs, it is 21.6%.While the pandemic played a major part in lowering the number of accidents, with both fatal and non-fatal significantly going down in April, May and June, senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudhary said, “Apart from vehicular restrictions, continuous efforts towards enforcement, road safety awareness and road engineering interventions also helped bring down the number of accidents.” She added that as per the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety targets, they were able to bring down fatalities to half of what they were in 2011.Member of the UT Road Safety Council, Harman Sidhu said, “In Chandigarh, people were perhaps taking the lockdown restrictions more seriously than in other places because there didn’t seem to be much difference in the approach adopted by authorities. Traffic police and authorities need to work on replicating this result for 2021 and the coming years now.”Out of the total 157 accidents, most accidents were caused in October (18) followed by 17 each in January and February. Out of the total 157 accidents, 78 or almost 50% of them were caused between 6pm and midnight. Speeding was the main reason for these accidents and was found to be the cause behind 132 of the 157 total accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-report-at-48-chandigarh-saw-biggest-dip-in-road-crashes-101635624902728.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers deface govt ads featuring Channi||Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) defaced advertisements featuring chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on PRTC buses in Sangrur and Barnala districts on Saturday. The farmers alleged that the CM met farmers whose cotton crop was damaged by pink bollworm attack, but it was just a photo op as the government has not announced any compensation despite repeated protests. Later in the day, the government announced a relief package of ₹416 crore to cotton farmers. Jagtar Singh Laddi, from Bhawanigarh block, said that the cadre of Ugrahan group defaced government’s advertisement with black ink across the state to show their protest as farmers had held dharnas in front of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Bathinda district administration complex, but to no avail.“The government is not paying heed but installing posters of various schemes across Punjab. Farmers were angry and they had started removing such posters. Now the union has announced to deface the government’s advertisement,” said Laddi.Chamkour Singh, a BKU leader from Barnala, said that angry farmers defaced Channi’s poster in Rureke Kalan village. The union has also decided to oppose Congress leaders in villages and towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-deface-govt-ads-featuring-channi-101635623581291.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man, mother killed, wife injured in Sangrur mishap||A 42-year-old man and his mother were killed while his wife sustained injuries when their car collided with a tractor-trailer from the rear near Khurana village on the Sangrur-Patiala road on Saturday morning. They were rushed to the Sangrur civil hospital where doctors declared Deepak Kumar, 42 and his mother Reeta Rani, 70, residents of Sangrur, brought dead. Deepak’s wife Deepika, 40, received injuries in the mishap and is undergoing treatment. Sanjay Kumar, a close family friend, said the family was returning from Patiala in an Alto car after paying obeisance at the Kali Mata Temple.A case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the driver of the tractor-trailer at the Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-mother-killed-wife-injured-in-sangrur-mishap-101635623281403.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-SAD sarpanch booked for attempt to murder in Sangrur||The Dirba police on Saturday booked a former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sarpanch for allegedly opening fire at two sons of Congress-backed sarpanch at Ladbanjara village, around 35km from Sangrur.The police said the incident took place on Friday over the election of a cooperative society. The accused, Karamjit Singh, alias Karma, of Ladbanjara, went to Kashmir Singh’s place and fired gunshots at Jagtar Singh and Harinder Singh. The injured were rushed to a private hospital in Patiala.Dirba SHO Inderpal Singh said a case has been registered and investigations are on. “Karamjit and an unidentified person have been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. A hunt has been launched to arrest them,” added the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exsad-sarpanch-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-in-sangrur-101635623101303.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Rapprochement time over’: Captain rejects ‘back-end talks’ with Congress||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of “back-end talks” with the Congress, saying that the time for rapprochement was over and his decision to leave the party was final.Singh reiterated that he will soon launch his political party and said he wanted to build “a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab”.Punjab goes to polls early next year.“Reports of back-end talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with the party was taken after much thought and is final. I’m grateful to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now,” Singh’s media advisor, Raveen Thukral, quoted him as saying in a Twitter post.Singh was reacting to some media reports he was engaged in some backchannel talks with senior Congress leaders, who want him to stay in the party.“I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with @BJP4India (BJP), breakaway Akali factions and others for the Punjab (assembly) elections in 2022 once farmers’ issue is resolved. I want to build strong collective force in interest of Punjab and its farmers,” Singh said.Singh resigned as the Punjab CM on September 18, after a bitter tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu amid infighting in the state party unit. The Congress later picked Sikh-Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM. Singh later said he was quitting the Congress — a day after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah though he described the interaction as a “courtesy call”.On October 24, the former chief minister said he would launch his new political party as and when the Election Commission clears the name and the symbol. He had also slammed the Congress while claiming that many people from the party are in touch with him. On October 19, Singh was quoted as saying by Thukral that he planned to soon announce his political party, and was hopeful of sealing a seat arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if the farmers’ issue was resolved.HT was the first to report on October 2 that this development on the cards.Farmers from all across the country, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act passed by Parliament last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/time-for-rapprochement-over-capt-denies-backend-talks-with-cong-101635622681281.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest man with illicit liquor||Police arrested Jitender Singh of Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, Chandigarh, and recovered 16 bottles of English wine and five quarters of country-made liquor from his possession. He was arrested near CITCO Dhaba, Industrial Area, Chandigarh. A case under Excise Act was registered at Industrial Area police station. He was later granted bail. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSOne held for gambling Police arrested Mohd Faizan, a resident of Burail village, Chandigarh, on charges of gambling. He was nabbed near Bhopal stadium, Burail, on October 29. Police recovered ₹10,580 cash from his possession. A case under the Gambling Act was registered at the Sector 34 police station. He was later granted bail. 70 railway senior citizens attends health talkAs many as 70 members of the Railway Senior Citizens’ Welfare Society attended a talk on arrhythmia (heart rhythm) problems at Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10, on Saturday. The workshop was organised by medical experts, who explained the causes and treatment of the disease to the people and focused on timely detection and proper treatment of the same.Senior cricketers to receive remunerationThe BCCI will handover ₹81.90 lakh to senior men cricketers while ₹2.67 lakh will be distributed among senior women cricketers of the UT Cricket Association (UTCA) for 2020-21, when Covid-19 truncated the season. The senior cricketers registered with BCCI will get 50% of the match fees of the season gone by, as due to pandemic, the full season could not be held. This was announced by UTCA president Sanjay Tandon during their annual general body meeting in Chandigarh on Saturday.Lecture held on Nobel Prize in medicine 2021The Society for Promotion of Science and Technology in India (SPSTI), with support from the department of science and technology of the Chandigarh administration organised a webinar on the Nobel Prize in medicine 2021 on Saturday. The lecture was delivered by Rajat Sandhir, professor at the department of biochemistry, Panjab University. He explained the concept of nociceptors, which are specialised sensory neurons.PU team celebrates Diwali with specially-abled childrenThe Enactus SSBUICET team of Panjab University celebrated Diwali with children from Samarth, a residential home for people with cerebral palsy and mental disabilities in Sector 15. “The team has been celebrating Diwali at Samarth for the last many years,” said Seema Kapoor, faculty adviser of the Enactus team. Capacity building programme concludes at PUThe five-day capacity building programme for security personnel of Panjab University, organised by the department of defence and national security and the centre for police administration concluded on Saturday. Jaskaran Singh Waraich, chairperson, department of defence and national security studies, highlighted the salient aspects of the five-day programme and discussed the significance of the course for overall development of security personnel of the Panjab University. Indian-Irish BPTA Festival-2021 kicks offA literary potpourri was exhibited at Macèdoine, A Medley Books, Poetry, Theatre & Arts (BPTA) Festival-2021, a virtual festival with participation from both India and Ireland on Saturday. The two-day festival commenced with the address of ambassadors of the Irish and Indian Embassies Brendan Ward and Akhilesh Mishra. Irish poet and diplomat Emer Davis, is BPTA’s festival director. The first day of the BPTA Festival-2021 saw Indian diplomat Akhilesh Mishra in a live chat with Emer Davis and Founder Director, BPTA. Nisha Luthra, discussing different facets of the Indian-Irish literary and cultural traditions. There was a cover launch of a book by Irish writer of historical fiction Nicola Pierce by former IAS officer and motivational speaker Vivek Atray.CSIR celebrates foundation day The CSIR-Central Scientific Instruments Organisation celebrated its foundation day on Saturday. In the morning an online quiz competition and an e-presentation competition was organised as a part of a virtual online open day to encourage, attract and motivate young students to take up science as a research career. Later, a technology transfer agreement was signed between Bharat Electronics Limited, a Government of India Enterprise under the Ministry of Defence, Panchkula, CSIR-Central Scientific Instruments Organisation, Chandigarh, for LED-based NVG compatible wing and fin navigation lights along with other technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-man-with-illicit-liquor-101635622562883.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack: Punjab records 34% cotton crop loss||A field inspection ordered by the state government pegged a loss of 34% produce of raw cotton this year due to the pink bollworm attack in the south Malwa region of Punjab.As per the crop loss assessment report submitted by the district authorities, 54% of 7.51 lakh acres of the total area under cotton cultivation was under pest infestation.With 3.03 lakh hectares area under cotton this season, southern Punjab recorded an increase of 17% than last year when the cash crop was sown on 2.51 lakh hectares.In 2020-21 kharif season, Punjab had produced about 50 lakh quintals of cotton. But owing to an infestation of the deadly pest, the state’s loss projection indicates a drastic fall in cotton production this season.According to details released today by the state revenue minister Aruna Chaudhary and agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nadha in Chandigarh, Bathinda is the worst-hit district where almost the entire area of 2.43 lakh acres, the largest cotton-producing district, witnessed damage to the tune of 76-100% of the cotton produce.The entire crop on 1.52 lakh acres in Mansa also falls in the bracket of severe damage of more than 76%.Cotton on 2.39 lakh acre in Fazilka district and another 6,325 acres in Moga and Faridkot reported no case of pink bollworm infestation.Muktsar has 1.01 lakh acre under cotton and the pest attack damaged crop in 5,125 acres. Damage of 76-100% was reported in only 55 acres.Details shared by the Punjab government debunked claims made by the opposition political parties and farmer unions that this season there was almost a complete loss of cotton crop in the entire state.Nabha said the government has granted compensation of up to ₹12,000 and fortunately farmers are getting handsome returns for their remaining 56% produce.“Farmers are holding back their cotton stocks in hope higher rates in the coming weeks. The market is very encouraging and now farmers are being paid more than ₹9,000 per quintals,” said the minister.Farmers getting good returns According to official data of the Punjab Mandi Board, there has been a rise of ₹1,990 per quintal or 27% in the highest prevalent market rates in the last 30 days.On October 1, the highest rate for cotton was ₹7,390. On October 30, one quintal raw cotton reached the all-time high ₹9,380 that was 58% of this kharif season’s minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,925.On October 1, total of 1.8 lakh quintal cotton was purchased in mandis of different districts of the semi-arid region of the state.On Saturday, Punjab Mandi Board data records sale of 6.23 lakh quintals. In the past one month the daily average purchase of more than 20,000 quintals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-attack-punjab-records-34-cotton-crop-loss-101635622561375.html
31-10-2021||Other||Punjab logs 27 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Saturday reported 27 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,02,375, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality, the death toll reached 16,558. The state reported a positivity rate of 0.08 %, the bulletin said. The only death in the state was reported in Hoshiarpur. Among fresh cases, four each were registered in Fazilka and Rupnagar and three in Fazilka, it said. The state has 251 active cases. With 27 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,556. A total of 1,53,95,263 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state of which 33,089 were tested on Saturday. As many as 73,081 doses of vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-logs-27-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101635622322868.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht acting jathedar completes three years||It’s been three years since Giani Harpreet Singh was installed as the acting jathedar of Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs. However, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has neither appointed a permanent jathedar nor accorded this status to him. The jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib, Giani Harpreet Singh was given the additional charge of Akal Takht on October 30, 2018. His performance in the past three years has evoked a mixed response from the Sikh masses. Around four years after his predecessor Giani Gurbachan Singh pardoned Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a blasphemy case, which made the office of Akal Takht jathedar lose credibility, Giani Harpreet Singh appeared to have regained the trust of the Panth, especially the anti-Badal section, gradually.For instance, he got an overwhelming support from the NRI Sikh community when he visited the UK two years ago. He was invited by managements of various gurdwaras, most of which are anti-Badal. He was also felicitated by pro-Khalistan groups.The acting jathedar was also hailed by the same group back home when he sought a ban on the RSS (parent organisation of Badal-led SAD’s then ally BJP) in 2019, expressed solidarity with Kashmiri activists on the issue of Article 370 abrogation and favoured Pakistan-based pro-Khalistan leader Gopal Singh Chawla during his speech at Nankana Sahib. However, his speech on the SGPC’s 100th foundation day on November 17, 2020, was a turning point that changed popular perception about him, feel many Sikh thinkers that HT talked to. He tried to make a political pitch for the SAD with its top leaders present on the occasion. The jathedar ended up drawing flak for his speech, especially from the Akali splinter groups.His statement in favour of Khalistan on the Operation Bluestar anniversary in 2019 also did not go well with a section of Sikhs and other communities in Punjab.‘Shattered the hopes’Avtar Singh, a UK-based Sikh thinker, says: “When Giani Harpreet Singh was appointed to the top post, he had boldly raised the Panthic voice, which usually stays mum. There was something courageous in him, that was never seen in his predecessors. Initially, he approached all sections of Sikh intellectuals, irrespective of their critical view about the SAD.”However, this kind of “impartial approach” continued only for around a year and a half; thereafter, sentiments of the SAD, not of Panth, started reflecting in his speeches and statements, says Avtar Singh.Sukhdev Singh Phagwara, coordinator of Alliance of Sikh Organisations, says: “He brought a glimmer of hope. He made the quam (community) feel that after a long time, a jathedar is delivering justice to his post. Unfortunately, he stepped back from continuing these actions; thereby shattering these hopes.”‘Accepted by all sections’Meanwhile, the community is facing a situation wherein it has five temporal seats but doesn’t have five jathedars, despite the importance of five in the Sikh faith.SGPC chief secretary (honorary) Harjinder Singh Dhami said as far as Giani Harpreet Singh’s tenure is concerned, he is accepted by all sections of the Panth. “Right now, he has a dual charge. The SGPC will sit together to give the full-fledged charge of Akal Takht to Giani Harpreet Singh, after finding a new jathedar for Takht Damdama Sahib. However, the issue has not been discussed so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-acting-jathedar-completes-three-years-101635622141560.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||New book highlights Covid impact on Punjab’s economy||A book on the economic impact and lessons to be learnt from Covid-19 pandemic was released by Punjab’s former information commissioner and veteran journalist PPS Gill here on Saturday. Titled “Covid-19 Pandemic and Economic Development — Emerging Public Policy Lessons for Punjab”, the book has been edited by agriculture economists Prof Sukhpal Singh of the IIM, Ahmedabad; Prof Lakhwinder Singh Gill, who retired as the chairperson of economics department at Punjabi University, Patiala; and Prof Kamal Vatta of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. The book comprises more than 25 chapters written by leading personalities working in the fields of economics, and includes studies covering issues related to governance, agriculture, agriculture markets, industry, service sector, labour, diaspora, gender, environment, state revenue, Centre-state relationship and public policy. It also suggests some policy measures for the state government. “The Punjab government has set up a committee led by Montek Singh Ahluwalia to suggest a road map for the revival of the state economy during the post-Covid period, which submitted its interim report in July 2020. It is expected to submit the final report anytime soon, though it missed the December deadline. But you can well assess the state of affairs of this committee as it was not having any economist from Punjab,” said Prof Sukhpal. He said the book tries to study how Covid-19 impacted various sectors and what can be done by the state government to improve these sectors. Meanwhile, Prof Gill said that Punjab needs a medium- and long-term strategy to rejuvenate its economy following the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-book-highlights-covid-impact-on-punjab-s-economy-101635622083123.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack: Punjab govt announces ₹416-crore relief package for cotton growers||The Punjab government on Saturday announced releasing ₹416 crore to compensate cotton growers for their crop loss due to pink bollworm attack, that caused extensive damage in Mansa, Sangrur, Bathinda, Muktsar Sahib and Barnala districts. The announcement was made by agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha and revenue and rehabilitation minister Aruna Chaudhary in a joint press conference here. The ministers said that the pink bollworm caused severe damage to cotton crops in Mansa, Sangrur, Bathinda, Muktsar Sahib and Barnala districts. The ministers said this time around, 4 lakh acres out of the total area of 7.51 lakh acres of cotton crop have been damaged by pink bollworm. They said the compensation was being paid at the rate of ₹2,000 per acre for the loss to the extent of 26 to 32%; ₹5,400 per acre for 33 to 75% loss; and ₹12,000 per acre for 76 to 100%loss, which is the highest-ever amount, the ministers claimed. Earlier, farmers were being paid ₹8,000 per acre and pickers 5% of the amount for crop failure, they said. The ministers said 10% of the total compensation would be provided to the cotton pickers and the amount will be sent in the accounts of deputy commissioners before Diwali. The district administration will directly transfer the aid in the bank accounts of farmers. To a query regarding damage caused to crops by recent rains and hailstorm, Chaudhary said the ‘girdawari’ orders have been issued for the assessment of crop loss. As soon as the reports are received from the deputy commissioners, steps will be taken for giving compensation to the affected growers. The deputy commissioners had been directed to send crop damage reports within a week. Nabha said that state-of-the-art technology was being introduced by the government to prevent such losses. Expressing his commitment to the farmers, he said that appointment letters have been issued to 157 members of the families of the farmers who lost their lives during agitation against the agricultural laws. Govt cheated farmers, offered meagre relief: SAD The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday said the Congress government as well as chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had cheated farmers by offering a meagre and partial compensation despite the widespread destruction of their cotton crop due to pink bollworm attack in the Malwa region. The SAD also condemned the Congress government for failing to announce a financial package for “khet mazdoor” (farm labourers) on the pattern of that announced by the previous Parkash Singh Badal government when farmers had suffered a loss due to whitefly attack. In a statement, SAD kisan wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka said it was shocking that despite a clear-cut demand from the farming community for award of compensation at the rate of ₹50,000 per acre, the Congress government had come out with a partial compensation policy. “It seems the government wants to cheat farmers further as it has kept a measly compensation of only ₹2,000 for up to 35% crop damage and ₹5,400 for up to 75% crop damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-attack-punjab-govt-announces-416-crore-relief-package-for-cotton-growers-101635622081326.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police foil gangster Preet Phagwara’s plan to kill rival||While being interrogated by Mohali police, gangster Preet Phagwara revealed his plan to murder rival Sukhi Bidhipuria. Based on information provided by him, police recovered three pistols, including a foreign-made one and 73 cartridges. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal stated that Phagwara is a close and trusted aide of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and involved in numerous crimes like murder, robbery, gun running and drug smuggling across states like Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Chandigarh. Mahal added that while investigating a few snatching cases in Kurali, police obtained the production warrant of Preet Phagwara and brought him to Mohali.The SSP said that Phagwara revealed that he was planning to kill/attack his rival gang member Sukhi Bidhipuria, who is lodged in jail. “Preet was in touch with his associates and arranged weapons and ammunition to execute the plan when Bidhipuria was being presented in court,” said Mahal. The SSP disclosed that pistols and ammunitions were arranged from other states. A case under Arms Act was registered at Kurali (city) police station. Speaking on Phagwara’s criminal background, Mahal said that he has been involved in criminal activities since 2014. “Initially, he was a member of Sukha Kahlwan group and used to operate Sukha Kahlwan’s Facebook profile. After Kahlwan’s killing, he joined the gang of Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. Thereafter, on the directions of Bhagwanpuria, he and his associates conspired with Akul Khattri, a close associate of Jaggu, to flee from police custody during a court hearing in Nawanshahr. After that, he had his associates carry out an attack on Beant Brar of Bagha Purana and injured him,” said the SSP. Police said that they have recovered one .25 bore CZ made in Czechoslovakia along with magazine, one .32 pistol along with magazine, one .315 bore Pistol, 50 cartridges of .12 bore, 20 cartridges of .315 bore and three cartridges of .25 bore. Preet has more than 24 cases registered against him at different cities in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-foil-gangster-preet-phagwara-s-plan-to-kill-rival-101635621961223.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||First wave of Covid-19 claimed nearly 11,000 lives in Mumbai, May 2020 was most lethal||The first wave of the pandemic claimed nearly 11,000 lives in Mumbai, with May 2020 recording the highest number of deaths. While the number of Covid-19 cases saw a huge spurt during the second wave, the city’s death toll was around 5,000, comparatively lower than the first wave, according to the civic body data.The public health authorities hustled to create new medical infrastructure for a sudden inflow of patients during the first wave. On the other hand, the medical fraternity grappled to treat the infection caused by the new, unknown virus. “There were huge mortalities that time,” said infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. “We were looking at the evidence coming from other countries and trying everything possible to not let patients slip to the critical state and revert the ones who were critical. But when the first wave hit us, we knew nothing about Covid-19,” he said.According to Srivastava, slowly, doctors learnt that none of the drugs was making any difference and found that timely oxygen therapy and good intensive care unit (ICU) support played a key role in reducing mortality. “We became more and more clear that none of the agents and interventions showed any survival advantage barring oxygen support, ICU care and steroids,” he said adding that by the time the second wave hit Mumbai, the treatment strategies were slightly more evolved.Mumbai’s first case of Covid-19 was recorded on March 11, 2020. From 119 cases and 14 deaths that month, the number of cases jumped to 5,904 in April and the death toll climbed to 431. In the following month of May, the number of cases went up to 33,189 and the death toll touched 2,414, the highest during the first wave. Experts consider the period between March to November 2020 as the first wave. Thereafter, the city experienced some respite. Once again, cases began to climb again from the end of February 2021, which is considered as the onset of the second wave.“By the time the second wave hit, the experience of the medical fraternity was much better,” said physician Dr Jalil Parkar from Lilavati Hospital. The use of repurposed drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab had started during the end of the first wave. Most importantly, there was awareness among people about the symptoms and the need for timely oxygen support. “The starting of the vaccination drive in January 2021 has also played a crucial role in reducing the mortalities in the second wave,” said Parkar.Mumbai’s Covid-19 mortality trend is the opposite of the scenario observed in overall Maharashtra which recorded more fatalities during the second wave. “Mumbai developed a protocol which instilled hope among patients and the city’s streamlined system of allocating beds through war rooms, creating massive jumbo facilities with ample oxygen storage helped during the second wave when the number of cases was much higher,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “Other parts of the state perhaps implemented different strategies that were not so effective,” he said.Mumbai boasts of much better healthcare infrastructure compared to other parts of Maharashtra. Health activists said that as the virus spread rapidly into the rural parts of the state, patients suffered due to the lack of better health facilities as well as difficulty in accessing them.As the state anticipates a post-Diwali spurt and a third wave anytime soon, will the learnings from the first and second waves help us tide over smoothly? “All our strategies are better evolved now, but whether that’s enough for a third, fourth or fifth wave is something we don’t know,” said task force member Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-wave-of-covid-19-claimed-nearly-11-000-lives-in-mumbai-may-2020-was-most-lethal-101635621902678.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab MLA abuses, threatens official over power theft FIR||Harminder Singh Gill, Congress MLA from Patti assembly constituency in Tarn Taran, has courted yet another controversy after he abused and threatened a subdivisional officer (SDO) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) over a phone call for allegedly getting a power theft case registered in Tung village.The incident came to light after an audio clip of the conversation between the two was shared on social media. The exact date of the conversation could not be confirmed, but it took place after the case was registered on October 10. While the SDO has gone incommunicado and made no complaint about the incident, the legislator issued a clarification on Facebook feeling apologetic for his language, though slamming the official for allegedly recording and sharing the conversation. Even last year, the MLA’s purported audio clip had gone viral on social media after he allegedly threatened a station house officer in his constituency for not paying a “courtesy call” to him after taking charge of the police station.The callIn the present case, the audio starts with Patti SDO Sushil Kumar greeting the MLA. The conversation soon turns heated as Gill points to the FIR, ignores the justification provided by the official and starts abusing him. The Congress leader also threatens to get police cases registered against Kumar besides getting him transferred to a location “where he will not even find water to drink”.The MLA and SDO didn’t answer to repeated phone calls for a comment. However, Gill posted a clarification about the incident on his Facebook page, stating: “Officials should serve the people without any greed. The Punjab government has been waiving the pending electricity bills that are in crores, but some officials of the department have unnecessarily been imposing fines... What does Patti SDO want to prove by making my audio viral?”A senior PSPCL official, privy to the development, said Patti subdivision has been facing 70% losses due to power thefts, the second highest in Punjab. “On October 8, the SDO and his team went to Tung village to inspect the installation of a new transformer. In the meantime, they found that two houses had installed ‘kundis’ (illegal connections). When they removed these connections, the occupants and some farmers gheraoed the team and tried to take them captive. The officials, somehow, managed to flee,” said the official, who didn’t wish to be named. Later, a case of power theft was registered against Palwinder Singh and his brother Dawinder Singh, and a fine of around ₹1 lakh was imposed on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-mla-abuses-threatens-official-over-power-theft-fir-101635621901125.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly will pass SKM suggestions in toto: CM on scrapping farm laws||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday spoke to farm union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal to seek suggestions on what should be included in the state government’s proposal to scrap the Centre’s contentious agriculture laws in the upcoming assembly session. A special assembly session has been convened on November 8 to oppose Centre’s notification extending the BSF jurisdiction besides “repealing the three black farm laws”.Channi shared a video of his conversation with Rajewal on Twitter. He can be heard telling the farm leader to share guidelines on behalf of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to pass them in the Vidhan Sabha. SKM is a coalition of over 40 farmers’ unions to coordinate the agitation against the three central legislations.“The government will pass recommendations of the SKM in toto,” said Channi, claiming that he had suggested to scrap the bills in the Vidhan Sabha during the previous Congress regime (led by Captain Amarinder Singh) as well. “I had sought to reject the three bills but the government officials threatened the dispensation that if Punjab opposes the bills, the Centre might impose President’s rule in the state. But I am not bothered about my government on this issue,” he said. Stop misleading farmers: CaptReacting to Channi’s claims, Captain told him to stop misleading farmers on the issue. “Even my government did all this. We spoke to farm leaders on these laws and passed our own legislations in the assembly too. However, the governor is sitting on them and he will sit on any new law too. Please, don’t mislead the farmers with false promises,” said the former chief minister on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-will-pass-skm-suggestions-in-toto-cm-on-scrapping-farm-laws-101635621841202.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak: 16,000 cases, 60 deaths in Punjab, says deputy CM||As many as 16,000 people have tested positive for dengue and 60 have succumbed to the mosquito-borne virus in recent weeks in Punjab.Deputy chief minister OP Soni, who also holds the charge of health and family welfare, shared these figures on the sidelines of an event in Amritsar on Saturday.Soni said 40,000 suspected patients have been diagnosed at government and private facilities across the state, and 16,000 have tested positive for dengue. Meanwhile, 60 deaths have been confirmed so far, he said. Spread by the bite of an infected female aedes aegypti mosquito, dengue cases start rising every monsoon and peak between September and November. The present outbreak is turning out to be the deadliest in several years.Last year, a total of 8,435 confirmed cases of dengue were reported in Punjab whereas the number was around 11,000 in 2019.The deputy CM said the number of fresh cases is on the decline in the past couple of days and adequate arrangements have been made for the patients at government hospitals. Soni was interacting with the media during the coronation of Rajkanwalpreet Pal Singh Lucky as the chairman of District Planning Board, Amritsar.“It’s been just one month since the Congress formed a new government in Punjab, and around 85% of the promises made with the people have been fulfilled. Rest of the promises will be delivered within a month,” said Soni, adding that these efforts have raised the morale of Congress workers and prepared them for contesting the upcoming assembly elections with a new enthusiasm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-16-000-cases-60-deaths-in-punjab-says-deputy-cm-101635621782537.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Solar power PPAs: Tariff needs to be reduced, says Punjab minister||Punjab new and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Verka on Saturday emphasised the need for reduction of tariff in power purchase agreements (PPAs) for solar power projects. Stating that the pressure of high costs is being borne by the people of Punjab, he directed officials concerned to find legally sound reasoning and methodology for exploring the possibility of reduction in tariff. Presiding over a meeting in this regard, the cabinet minister said that PPAs were signed in three phases about seven years back when the cost of solar power at the national level was much higher. Verka said the state is exploring all ways and means, including possibility of bringing a legislation in the state assembly, to reduce the tariff of these high-cost PPAs as electricity laws are a concurrent subject. “However, there is a need to look at the possibility of reduction in tariff being paid by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for these projects in view of the much lower cost of solar power at present,” he said. Giving a complete overview of the PSPCL’s power purchase scenario, its chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Peasad said the current power purchase rate is quite low. He said efforts are being made by the corporation for exploring the possibility of reduction in tariff for PPAs signed much earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/solar-power-ppas-tariff-needs-to-be-reduced-says-punjab-minister-101635621781174.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health department to replace 178 terminated NHM employees||The UT health department on Saturday conducted an emergency meeting of the executive committee of the National Health Mission (NHM) under the chairmanship of Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary, and decided that the health department will soon hire new healthcare staff to fill posts of 178 terminated employees. The department had issued termination letters to 178 contractual NHM employees after they missed their duties on October 27 to protest against the revised working conditions offered against salary hike. “Under the given circumstances and gross misconduct, the mission director took the appropriate decision to terminate services of the 178 NHM staff and the same was ratified. For stop-gap arrangements, staff may be hired from an outsourcing agency for a short period. However, the department need not to mechanically hire fresh staff against the vacancies created under each category because of the termination of contractual appointments. The actual requirement will be ascertained after an exercise of rationalisation and thereafter, due process is to be followed as per NHM guidelines for fresh selection of staff. It must be ensured that the persons whose contractual appointment has been terminated because of misconduct are not considered in the fresh selection process”, said Garg.“The aspect of pay to NHM staff as per the DC rate needs to be re-examined carefully after getting status from other UTs, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Till then, the guidelines issued by the central government for service conditions including pay to the NHM staff to be strictly followed”, he added. Meanwhile, NHM employees, who have been terminated, continued their protest outside GMSH-16 for the third consecutive days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-health-department-to-replace-178-terminated-nhmemployees-101635621661416.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||DAP shortage: Licences of three shops in Ambala cancelled for 15 days||Amid apprehension among farmers in Haryana over shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), which is used after cultivation of paddy, the district administration on Friday cancelled licences of three fertiliser shops for 15 days over alleged disparity in stock.The licences of Antaal Beej Bhandar and Laxmi Trading Company in Ambala City and Ram Pesticides in Naneola were cancelled for 15 days, after they were issued show-cause notices that remained unanswered for two days, officials said.According to a statement issued by the agriculture department, it has been observed that a few dealers were involved in the sale of fertilisers to other states and there was a mismatch from POS entries with physical verification at the store. SDM (city) Hitesh Kumar, who carried out the inspection, said that other than a mismatch in the number of 30 bags and non-working of the POS machine, there was no board depicting rates of available fertilisers found at Antaal Beej Bhandar.“At Laxmi Trading Company, there is a doubt of black marketing to other states, as the owner has no record of selling all 400 bags in large numbers, not less than 30 bags to each farmer. In Naneola, there was a disparity of 500 bags and the owner had no reply,” Kumar said.The SDM has also ordered registration of an FIR against Ram Pesticides, Naneola. However, the process is still underway and the copy is not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dap-shortage-licences-of-three-shops-in-ambala-cancelled-for-15-days-101635621421052.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Premier Marathi library in Mumbai grapples with multiple problems||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has been elected as the president of Mumbai Marathi Granth Sangrahalaya (MMGS), a 123-year-old library which he has headed for 28 years after being elected unopposed every time. The former Union minister’s first election for a post in Mumbai’s largest library had seen controversy over the poll process and allegations that the elected body was eyeing the land parcel that the library has across the city. Today, the library continues to grapple with multiple issues. Besides the shoddy leaky premises, depletion of members, political interference, paucity of funds, underpaid staff and the infighting among members have resulted in one of India’s premier libraries losing out the spotlight.The recent high-profile election, in which Maratha strongman Pawar won by an overwhelming majority, has once again helped in reviving hope for the library which is in a bad shape.Pawar’s opponent in the election, Dhananjay Shinde, who is the general secretary of the Maharashtra Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) contented that the poll was virtually rigged by Pawar and his team to exploit the land on which these libraries stand, especially its Naigaon headquarters that is valued to be around ₹4,000 crore. “The entire focus of Pawar’s team is to redevelop this prime land and hand it over to the builders. This is a prime land in Dadar and this election was manipulated to ensure that opponents of the redevelopment project are eased out. One of India’s prime libraries, which was frequented by scholars in the past, is today in its worst phase as they [members] are just concerned about its redevelopment,” said Shinde.Along with Pawar, his entire panel of seven people, led by former vice-chancellor of Mumbai University Dr Bhalchnadra Mungekar, got elected with an overwhelming majority. However, the opponents contended that just 34 secretaries of its 21 branches were allowed voting rights out of the 6,000 members. “The joke of this election is neither Pawar nor me, who were the contenders, were given the right to vote,” said Shinde.Dr Mungekar responded that redevelopment was inevitable. “Our entire premises is in a bad shape and cannot take repairs anymore. We will need to redevelop it,” he said and accused Shinde and his team of spoiling the whole atmosphere of the library by propagating the revamp angle. “We don’t even have a rough sketch of redevelopment and have not even discussed it with anyone. But our opponents have already accused us of selling the land. As per our system, members from each branch elect their representatives and these representatives form an electoral college. They elect the presidents and vice-presidents. This was precisely what we did, and even the charity commission (the government authority of all non-government bodies that are registered with it) dismissed their complaints and we were elected by an overwhelming majority,” said Dr Mungekar.Real estate experts point that the Naigaon branch is sitting on a “goldmine” of realty development. “This place is in Mumbai’s centre and commands more than ₹35,000- ₹40,000 per square feet rate. A 2-BHK (bedroom, hall and kitchen) will command a price of ₹3.50- ₹4 crore onwards, while a 3-BHK will be priced from ₹6 crore onwards,” said real estate expert Naresh Kewlani, chief executive officer (CEO), Creative Realtors, which deals in real estate in the Island city.Pawar’s opponents contend that his tenure as MMGS president for the past 28 years has been a colossal failure as the library has lost its former glory. “Half of our branches have closed down, and despite having such a large Marathi population, our membership is merely 8,642. MMGS owns Sharda Cinema, which has been shut. Many multiplexes and Marathi film personalities are ready to run it, but our administrators are not ready to give it to them. This place would have served as a good platform for our drama and literary events,” said Right to Information (RTI) activist Anil Galgali.Sharda Cinema, which was once a hub of Marathi cinema frequented by actors such as Sachin Pilgaonkar, Ashok Saraf and Dada Kondke, has been closed since 2019, after MMGS did not extend the lease of the contractor running it.Dr Mungekar puts the onus on the closure of libraries to social factors which has impacted the city as the whole. “The closure of the textile mills was a death blow to the Marathi culture as many migrated out of Mumbai in large numbers. This affected all spheres of the city, including our library,” said Dr Mungekar. “As far as Sharda Cinema is concerned, we are not leasing as we plan to redevelop this land and it will be unfair to the new tenants as they will have to move out when this happens,” he added.MMGS also has high profile trustees, such as Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule, Shiv Sena parliamentarians Sanjay Raut and Anil Desai and well-known political analyst Pratap Asbe.One of the major problems for MMGS is the pittance funding it receives from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) – the richest civic corporation in India – and well as the state government. In 2019-20, it only received ₹19.68 lakh from BMC and ₹34.00 lakh from the state. It has to cover the salaries of its 101 employees as well maintenance of the premises. The Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) said this shows the hypocrisy of the Shiv Sena-NCP over the Marathi language issue. “The Shiv Sena has been ruling BMC for decades and claims to uphold the Marathi cause. However, they turn a blind eye when it comes to Marathi institutions and the library is the best example, as it’s rotting due to paucity of funds. Pawar has been in power in the state for decades and has still not able to secure a decent funding for the institution he headed. All employees of MMGS are Maharashtrians and they are being unfairly exploited by the management,” said MNS leader Rita Gupta.Despite being a former Rajya Sabha member from the Congress, Dr Mungekar blames the state government for MMGS’ neglect over the years. “The state government just neglected our institution over the years and reduced it to a sorry state. Even we as administrators share a collective blame for such state of affairs. It is unfair to just blame Pawar for all the failures, as it is collective responsibility,” he added.However, he said that this has always been the case with all public trusts. “I agree that staff salaries are less but then they were lesser than this also. In 2017, when I took over, I increased it to the current level. This is, however, a problem with all public trusts,” he added.MMGS, one of the reputed and well known libraries, was founded in 1898. It has a treasure trove with more than 645,569 Marathi books, some of them rare and over 200 years old. The library was used by well-known luminaries such as Lokmanya Tilak, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and well-known Marathi scholars. Some of the rare books include ‘Geeta Rahasya’ written by Tilak from the jail in Mandalay, Vishnu Shastri Chiplunkar’s essays, ‘Mao Che Laskari Avahan’ on the 1962 Indo-China War and a book named ‘Maharana Pratap Ani Tyache Purvaj’. It has books written by VV Shirwadkar, Vinda Karandikar, Krishnaji Keshav Damle and Shripad Krushna Kolhatkar.However, over the years, the membership has dwindled to about 8,642 from 11,787 in 2014. There were initially 44 branches, which has now come down to 29. Of these 29 too, only 21 are actively working.Dhananjay Shinde, who has been a member of the library since the 1990s, said, “My aim is to bring back the glory of this centre. The current management is not doing anything and hence, I ran for the elections, even though I knew that I did not stand a chance against Pawar. They have failed miserably to attract the new generation and modernise the library. This place has the potential to become the cultural centre of Marathi literature.”Ganesh N Devy, who is well-known Indian literary critic and a cultural activist, outlined three points with reference to MMGS. “The use of books has reduced across the world and this is not a solitary position in Mumbai. But at the same time, MMGS management should update itself. They need to connect with libraries across the world so that long-distance lending is facilitated,” said Devy, who founded the Adivasi Academy. He said the strength of MMGS is its Marathi connection. “Maharashtrians should come forward to salvage MMGS, which would empower the Marathi language,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/premier-marathi-library-in-mumbai-grapples-with-multiple-problems-101635621301151.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU may conduct semester exams in offline mode||With Panjab University (PU) already reopening campus for students in a phased manner, there is a possibility that the upcoming semester exams may be held in physical mode.According to sources, the office of the controller of examinations has already been asked by the varsity to make preparations for physical exams this time. However, the modalities are yet to be finalised and it is expected that PU will deliberate on the matter after Diwali.Since the pandemic broke out last year, the varsity has conducted its semester examinations in online mode three times so far, without any invigilation. However, there was criticism over the sanctity of these online exams.A university official said, “As Covid-19 cases have subsided now, we will prefer to conduct the examination in offline mode. If the varsity reopens for all students prior to exams, then we can hold them physically. But, there is no concrete plan as of now.”Before their term ended on December 31, the members of the syndicate had also urged vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to hold semester exams offline. The university has already reopened a number of departments for final-year students of postgraduate (PG) courses and it is expected to reopen for more students after Diwali.According to the academic calendar, the odd semester exams of ongoing batches and first year UG/PG students will start in December at PU as well as affiliated colleges. The classes for ongoing batches had started in August .However, many students are not in favour of offline exams for the current semester, for which they are studying online. They said that most of the syllabus has been completed through online mode and calling students back to campus just two weeks before exams is unjust. “If the university wants to conduct offline exams, it can do so from the next semester after physical teaching is conducted for that semester,” said Nikhil Narmeta, president of National Students Union of India (NSUI), PU.Practical exams from December 17PU has announced that practical examinations for undergraduate batches will be conducted from December 17 to 21 and for postgraduate batches from December 21 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-may-conduct-semester-exams-in-offline-mode-101635621001193.html
31-10-2021||Mumbai||Pune tops Maharashtra in Covid-19 statistics||While the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is receding from the state, Pune has emerged as the top contributor in cases as well as deaths. As of Saturday, the district had recorded over 1.1 million cases and more than 19,500 deaths. Mumbai was second in line with over 756,000 cases and more than 16,200 deaths. State health officials have been mulling the reasons behind the rise in Pune’s cases and have found similarities with the 2009 H1N1 outbreak. “The H1N1 outbreak behaved the same way, with a surge in Mumbai initially, but Pune eventually taking the top slot,” said state’s surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate. “We believe that Mumbai’s coastal proximity has a role to play in the way the virus circulates and thrives. Pune’s weather conditions seem more conducive for the virus to thrive. We saw a similar pattern during the H1N1 outbreak as well,” he said. Awate said that the state was closely watching the district’s pattern as the temperature is likely to fall further and a wide difference between the day and night time temperatures was setting in gradually in Pune. Pune’s district health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar said Pune is land locked and has dry weather, which seems to be conducive for pathogens like the Sars-CoV-2. “We need detailed studies to link the weather pattern in the district and if it lets pathogens thrive. But preliminarily, the weather pattern seems to definitely play a role,” he said. Health activists, however, said that Pune’s medical infrastructure and the strategies to deal with Covid-19 have been extremely weak. “One may link the spread to the weather patterns and climatic conditions, but the reality is that Pune failed at many levels while tackling the pandemic,” said Dr Abhijit More of Jan Arogya Abhiyan. “When the pandemic hit, Pune’s public sector did not have a single medical intensive care unit (MICU). The contact tracing measures in Pune have been weak. More importantly, it had a very centralised approach of allotting beds to patients, which was a complete failure,” he said. According to More, while Mumbai created 24 war rooms in each of its 24 wards, Pune had one centralised war room approach. “The problem became worse when the authorities did not change their strategy by learning from the Mumbai model. They continued with the same centralised model, leaving patients struggling at home. Many patients never heard back from them and had to run from one hospital to another looking for beds. All this led to the widespread of the virus,“ said More adding that Pune eventually crossed Mumbai even as its population density is much lower. As the state anticipates a third wave sooner or later, More said that Pune should rethink its strategies for future spurts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-tops-maharashtra-in-covid-19-statistics-101635620710086.html
31-10-2021||Other||PAU holds online crop production training programme||The directorate of extension education, Punjab Agricultural University, organised a three-month online training programme on crop production for the benefit of 43 youngsters hailing from rural areas from across the state.Kuldeep Singh, associate director, skill development, said the university organises two such three-month courses every year, the present one having started on August 2 to October 30. The information about the courses can be obtained from PAU website: www.pau.edu. Course coordinator Rupinder Kaur divulged that the participants were given information on crop production, horticulture, vegetables, diseases-insect-pest management, dairy farming, beekeeping, mushroom cultivation. They also took part in an interactive session with progressive farmers.Additional director of communication Tejinder Singh Riar presided over the concluding session. He exhorted the candidates to take full advantage of the course learning and to avail the facilities provided by the university’s Punjab Agri-business Incubation Programme for increasing income from agriculture. Lavleesh Garg urged the farmers to adopt subsidiary occupations to increase their income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-holds-online-crop-production-training-programme-101635620101033.html
31-10-2021||Other||Odisha police arrest 2 for duping Delhi businessman of ₹1.17 cr||The Economic Offences Wing of the Odisha police arrested two people on Friday on charges of cheating over ₹1 crore from a Delhi based businessman by posing as an IAS officer and an engineer with the public works department (PWD) of the Odisha government.EOW officials said the duo, along with one more person, cheated Mukesh Jain, the proprietor of Rashtriya Stainless Steel, in New Delhi in 2018 of ₹1.17 crore with a promise of high-value work contracts from the PWD department.EOW deputy inspector general JN Pankaj said they have arrested Suryamani Tripathy, a clerk in the office of the Directorate of Technical Education & Training, and one Amit Kumar.EOW officials said that Jain had initially come in contact with one Rajesh Gahlot who introduced himself as an officer of RAW having connections with several IAS officers in Odisha.In 2017, Gahlot introduced Jain and his son to Suryamani by identifying himself as an additional secretary in the PWD department.“The businessman and his son were promised high-value government contracts/work orders under Pradhan Mantri Yojana in Odisha. In 2018, Suryamani called them to the office of the PWD engineer-in-chief in Bhubaneswar to execute the agreement. Later, Suryamani introduced them to Amit as an engineer with PWD,” EOW officials said.The accused used Odisha Niwas in New Delhi to strike a deal and gain the trust of the victims.They also saved the mobile phone numbers of senior IAS, IPS, OAS officers and Judges on their phones to impress people, the EOW officials said.“The accused, Suryamani, handed over two work orders to the complainant, purportedly issued by the assistant engineer in PWD (Civil) for a contract value of over ₹80 crore and asked Jain to pay money on the pretext of expediting the process,” the EOW officials said.The EOW officials said that Jain started to have doubts when a no work order was issued and an RTI was sought about the accused persons. Later, on finding that all documents, including treasury receipts, were fake, he registered a case in connection with the fraud. Gahlot is yet to be arrested. “Several fake orders, agreements, treasury receipts have been seized and it is suspected that the accused might have cheated other persons also,” said EOW SP Dilip Tripathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-police-arrest-2-for-duping-delhi-businessman-of-rs-1-17-cr-101635619862415.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Main conspirator in Uruli Kanchan firing arrested||PUNE: The man suspected to be the main culprit behind the Uruli Kanchan shooting that led to two deaths on October 22 was remanded to 10 days in police custody on Saturday by a court in Pune. The arrested man was identified as Umesh Sopan Sonawane, a resident of Rahu in Daund area of Pune, according to a statement issued by officials of Lonikalbhor police station. “Since the incident, Sonawane had been at large. For his search, senior police inspector Rajendra Mokashi had appointed a search team,” read a statement by Lonikalbhor police station officials. Sonawane is related to two Sonawane brothers who were killed in 2011 in Rahu, Daund. Jagtap was booked in the case of murder of the two. Assistant police inspector Raju Manohar, head of the investigation team, received information that Sonawane was going to be at Kanifnath hotel located along Peer Phata in Shirur area of Pune. He set a trap along with officials of Lonikalbhor police station and found him. Two assailants in the case were already arrested in the case. They were identified as Pavan Gorakh Misal (29) and Mahadev Babasaheb Adlinge (26) of Uruli Kanchan. The information about the mastermind behind the attack was gained during their interrogation. The men killed in the attack were identified as Santosh Jagtap, the main target of the attackers, and Bapu Khaire, one of the three attackers. Misal and Adlinge were one of the two others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/main-conspirator-in-uruli-kanchan-firing-arrested-101635619441097.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Salon worker arrested for sexual harassment of customer in Pune||PUNE: A 22-year-old man working at a beauty salon in Akurdi area was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for allegedly sexually harassing a customer on Thursday. The arrested man was identified as Mohammad Siraj Rajjab Ali (22) of Rail Vihar Colony in Chinchwad. He works at a well-known beauty salon in Pradhikaran area of Akurdi in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The incident happened around 7:30pm on Thursday when the woman was at the beauty salon for a head massage. The woman told the police that while giving her a head massage, the man slid his hands on her body and touched her inappropriately while her eyes were closed. The woman lodged a complaint on the same day and a case was registered on Friday afternoon. A case was registered under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/salon-worker-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-of-customer-in-pune-101635619320942.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Indira Gandhi’s death anniversary: Congress holds photo exhibition||PUNE: Late Indira Gandhi is known as “iron lady”, and under her leadership India undertook its first nuclear journey to detonate an indigenously designed nuclear device, helped create an independent country Bangladesh from Pakistan, and brought green revolution, said senior Congress leader Ulhas Pawar while inaugurating the photo exhibition on her life. Congress party’s city unit organised the photo exhibition at Balasaheb Thackeray art gallery which was inaugurated by Pawar. Congress leader Abhay Chhajed organised it. Indira Gandhi’s death anniversary falls on October 31. Pawar said, “Pandit Nehru established Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), but the first nuclear test was carried out under Indira Gandhi despite opposition from other world leaders.” Many Congress leaders attended the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indira-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-congress-holds-photo-exhibition-101635619020987.html
31-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 896 athletes participate in state trials for Khelo India||A total of 896 athletes from various districts participated in the trials of Punjab state teams for four sport disciplines for the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games here on Saturday.Various sports activities in the under-18 category will be held in the games, which will be held from February 5 to 14, 2022, in Panchkula, Haryana.The Ludhiana sports department hosted trials for state girls’ and boys’ teams of kabaddi and basketball and boys’ state teams for football and handball on Saturday.While the trials of kabaddi, football, and basketball were held at Guru Nanak Stadium, the trials for handball were held at Punjab Agricultural University.In basketball, 50 players each participated in the trials conducted for state boys’ and girls’ teams.Meanwhile, in kabaddi, a total of 185 boys and 80 girls participated in the trials.As many as 110 boys participated in handball trials, and 421 boys participated in the football trials. However, the football trials may continue on Monday before the final selection of the state team, said an official. The registrations of the players commenced at 11 am. The trials were held under the chairmanship of Ludhiana district sports officer (DSO) Ravinder Singh. Coaches and senior sports officers from various districts including, DSO, Kapurthala reached Ludhiana to assist in the trials. A few players returned disappointed as they failed to provide the required documents for registration.A few players suffered injuries during football and kabaddi trials and were given timely first aid by the district sports department.However, players complained that no refreshments were provided to them.“We reached the ground at around 8:30 am from Bathinda. Since then, we didn’t get any refreshments, and we couldn’t leave the venue to go eat outside out of fear of missing out on the selection,” said a football player.Meanwhile, senior sports officials including, Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association (PBA), expressed annoyance at the eligibility criteria set by the Khelo India management.As per the circular released by the senior director, Khelo India, any athlete born on or after January 1, 2003, is eligible for participation. Moreover, it said that the birth certificate should have been issued on or before November 21, 2016, by MC/Gram Panchayat.“It is not right to allow a player to submit his birth certificate which he got prepared even after 13 years of his birth ie till 2016. The birth certificate made within three years of birth should be considered valid. Now many over-aged players can participate in these games by manipulating their birth certificates,” said Teja Singh.The trials for hockey will be held at Lyallpur Khalsa College in Jalandhar on November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana896-athletes-participate-in-state-trials-for-khelo-india-101635618841109.html
31-10-2021||Other||PU Regional Centre, Ludhiana holds webinar on role of women in Gandhian movement||To commemorate Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, Panjab University Regional Centre, Ludhiana, on Thursday organised a webinar on the ‘Role of women in Gandhian movement’. The event was convened by Meera Nagpal, assistant professor, and teachers and students participated in the discussion. Abhimanyu Singh Arha, an environmental historian and a faculty at Rajasthan University, Jaipur, was the keynote speaker on the occasion.More than 100 participants, including faculty and students, attended and participated in the discussion.Arti Puri, director, PURC, Ludhiana said that we are fortunate to be born in independent India and emphasised on how different sections of the society have contributed to achieve the independence.Abhimanyu Singh Arha educated the audience about the need to delve deeper into the writings of Gandhiji and develop an understanding of his layered discourses.Meera, the convener of the event, said that in spite of women being allowed to be a part of the national movement and protests, the limits of their participation were still defined by men of the household.She moderated the question answer session wherein students interacted with Abhimanyu Singh Arha, advisor to government of Rajasthan on tourism and heritage protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pu-regional-centre-ludhiana-holds-webinar-on-role-of-women-in-gandhian-movement-101635618781798.html
31-10-2021||Pune||Pune airport reopens; flyers face check-in rush||Pune: The Lohegaon airport resumed its operation from 8am on Saturday with fliers from Delhi welcomed with red roses. However, as the day progressed and more flights landed, many passengers faced inconvenience and irritated at the delay at check-in. The Pune airport authorities that increased X-ray machines from five to six after the 14-day shut down had to deal with passengers’ anger vented out on Twitter. Manish Purohit, who boarded a flight for Hyderabad, tweeted “Too much panic at pune airport as flyspicejet decides to delay flight just 20 minutes before boarding. People have connecting flights. No arrangement. Staff is non cooperative.” “Our Pune to Hyderabad flight was scheduled at 1:10 pm. Boarding was supposed to start at 12:30. But at 12:15 we got a message that the flight was delayed by 1 hour. Their social media team said that the flight was delayed by 1.45 hours … but the staff on ground misled people. Later, they agreed that the flight was indeed 1:45 hours late. I was traveling with an infant, but no assistance or alternative was provided by SpiceJet,” he said. Another flyer who boarded the flight for Ahmedabad tweeted, “Actually it took 2 hour from Pune airport entry gate till clearing the security check gate. Huge rush observed. Entered departure gate at 3.15 PM & exited security check at 5.10 PM.” Airport authorities claimed that there was no rush during the initial hours after resuming of flights. “We had urged people to come early to the airport to avoid queues as rush increased and things got delayed,” said a Pune airport official. Another airport official said, “We were prepared for the holiday rush and have upgraded the facilities. Once the new airport terminal building is ready next year, things will be better.” Airports Authority of India (AAI) tweeted “We thank all passengers for their understanding & cooperation while developmental work was being undertaken at Pune Airport. AAI strives to serve the passengers better each day.” One of the flyer Gaurav Sinha replied to tweet, “Messed up our entire plans in this week and still forcing up to travel for 6 hours upto Mumbaiairport to take early morning flights even for domestic circle despite of 14day of full maintenance closure. Very poor. Aaipunairport.” Nikhil Dudhbaware tweeted,”@IndiGo6E pathetic service on day 1 from Pune. 6E 6747 PNR ARL8NR we reached the airport on time but there was a huge Q, zero management around 5pm and people missed the flight. Indigo blaming passengers for their mismanagement. Finally after a 1 hour argument they provided an option for connecting flight Nagpur via Indore. Lost the whole day because of mismanagement by IndiGo6E and Pune Airport authority. “Story does not end here after reaching Nagpur around 4.30 pm it was announced bags need to be collected from belt 1. Waited for 30 minutes and suddenly came to know that bags needed to be collected from belt 2, was waiting for my bags for around half an hr. Saw my 1st bag , in the next 7 min 2nd bag....later I was waiting for 3rd bag and saw everyone had collected bags and left except me and my family. Then spoke to indigo person they also don’t know about it. After a long Struggle they found my bag, mentioned that this bag reached early hence we kept at the office as there was no tag. How they can be so careless. @JM_Scindia can you please punish Indigo for mismanagement. I will raise a separate request on the customer portal for a refund for pathetic service.” Vivek Yadav tweeted: “Dont know about other places, but at Pune Airport, both @Uber_India and @Olacabs suck. Drivers keep cancelling (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-reopens-flyers-face-check-in-rush-101635618601011.html
31-10-2021||Bangalore||‘Power star’ Puneeth Rajkumar’s last rites today||As thousands of grieving fans continued to flock the Kanteerava stadium here on Saturday to pay final respects to Kannada film actor Puneeth Rajkumar, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said the last rites of the superstar will be performed on Sunday.The late actor’s family and the government had earlier planned to perform the last rites on Saturday, once his daughter, who is in the US, reaches the city.. “The decision has been taken as there were thousands of people waiting in the Kanteerava stadium. We have discussed the matter with the family members. The cremation will be done on Sunday,” he said.“Performing last rites after 6 pm in that small space is going to be challenging. Considering all factors and discussing with his brothers Raghavendra Rajkumar and Shivrajkumar, we have decided that the last rites will be performed tomorrow (Sunday),” he added.Considered as the Kannada cinema’s reigning star, Puneeth, the youngest of the five children of matinee idol Dr Rajkumar passed away at the age of 46, after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday. Puneeth complained of chest pain on Friday morning and visited his family doctor for an ECG. Following the ECG, he was asked to rush to the hospital. He arrived at the Vikram Hospital in a serious condition and hours later he was declared dead.The late actor will be laid to rest next to his father Dr Rajkumar and mother Parvathamma Rajkumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/power-star-puneeth-rajkumar-s-last-rites-today-101635618185582.html
31-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in: MC officials pass the buck; MP Bittu left flustered||Member of Parliament (MP) from Ludhiana, Ravneet Singh Bittu, said that even he is being made to run from pillar to post to find out who is responsible for the road cave-in at Deep Nagar. Exasperated, Bittu asked police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar to file a case against him, as being an elected representative, he takes responsibility if a civic negligence endangers lives of residents in his constituency. Bittu, along with local Congress leaders, visited Deep Nagar to inspect the accident site on Saturday. “The road caves-in incident, where two girls were injured, is a serious matter. People are mocking us after the mishap. When I approached the civic body looking for answers, the officials just passed the buck. The responsibility has to be fixed and I have asked the police commissioner to register a case and investigate, so that the culprit is identified,” said Bittu. Bittu said that he first asked MC commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal, who said that zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain was looking into the matter. “Jain told me that some IAS officer is dealing with the issue. Then, I was made to talk to Raman Kumar of B&R branch, who passed the buck to O&M cell. They further shifted the blame to the contractor, with some Bathinda connection. This is so unfortunate and unfair,” said Bittu, while reiterating that there was no politics involved behind his visit and it was due to the increasing incidents of road cave-ins. Interestingly, Bittu carried out his visit at the same time when cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said to be Bittu’s close confidant, was conducting a meeting with civic body officials at the mayor’s camp office. SAD cries foul over road recarpeting After questioning the civic body over the issue of frequent road cave-ins in the city, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal from the west constituency raised the issue Rani Jansi Road being recarpeted against violation of norms. Grewal said that instead of digging the road and then carpeting it, a lair of bitumen is being laid over the existing road, thereby elevating the surface its surface which could pose a problem of waterlogging in residential areas and commercial establishments. He said that roads carpeted in such a manner wither away easily. Pvt telecom firms also under scannerWhile leakage in the sewerage is being suspected to be the primary reason behind the road cave-in at Deep Nagar, the reckless drilling and road cutting by private telecom companies for laying fiber optic cables are also being blamed for the problem.The issue came to light during a special meeting being convened by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu with buildings and road department and the health department, at the mayor’s camp office.Sharing details, Congress councillor Mamta Ashu said during the preliminary investigation, it has come to light that leakage could have occurred due to a damage in the pipeline.“During inspection, two fibre optical cables were seen running on the sewer line. It is being suspected that the drilling of the road for laying the fibre optic cable may have caused damage to the sewerage line which resulted in a leakage and further led to road cave-in,” said Mamta Ashu.Cleanliness driveThe department officials were asked to launch a cleanliness drive across the city to clear debris of construction work. The officials said that with changing weather, the construction material kept outside the house was also leading to a rise in pollution levels.Mamta Ashu said officials have been told to involve residents so that the inner streets are rid of dust and pollution.The officials were also asked to encourage residents to keep their surroundings clean. “It has been witnessed that during the time of Diwali, residents’ carry out construction work and a few residents let the debris stay outside their house. This chokes the sewer lines,” said the MC official. The officials were further asked to check the quality of roads being laid in respective area the city and increase fogging to bring down the number of dengue cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-mc-officials-pass-the-buck-mp-bittu-left-flustered-101635618060898.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt makes dengue, malaria notifiable diseases, to help track cases better||The Delhi government has made vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria, and chikungunya as notifiable diseases under the Epidemic Diseases Act, making it mandatory for all hospitals and healthcare institutions to report any case that they receive to the government, according to a notification issued mid-October but being implemented from this week.According to the the Delhi Prevention and Control of Malaria, Dengue, Chikungunya or any Vector Borne Disease Regulations, 2021 vide notification dated October 14, 2021, the data provided by the hospitals will be used to map out regions where the diseases are spreading and declare them an “infected” or “threatened” area for focussing mosquito control measures, according to the notification.Any individual or institution violating the instructions such as not following through on breeding control measures or not reporting cases will be liable to be prosecuted under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that allows up to six months imprisonment and ₹1,000 fine or both, according to then notification.The notification makes provision for appointing a regulating officer who will coordinate with the local bodies, the central government, and implement the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme. A controlling officer for the infected or threatened area will ensure all medical practitioners in the area report the cases, get people in the areas suspected to have the disease tested, carry out survey and take preventive measures, the notification said.Dr BS Charan, head of the integrated disease surveillance programme cell of the Delhi government, said they were ensuring that hospitals not only report not just dengue but all fever cases.“We have also asked all hospitals to share details of the beds available for dengue patients. We have also asked the corporations to collect data and share report of cases every day rather than once a week. It will take some time but everything will be streamlined,” Charan said.The notification gives more powers to the local bodies to implement all mosquito breeding control measures. In addition, it states that contractors at construction sites will be responsible for screening of all the migrant labourers for such diseases.“This will certainly help us in implementation. The notification grants us more powers and no one can now refuse inspections for breeding checking,” according to a senior official from South MCD.So far, 1,006 dengue cases and one death of the disease has been reported. However, officials confirmed that so far six deaths that have been investigated by the death audit committee, which will be added to the toll.The notification of malaria has been a long awaited step, especially as Delhi has targeted elimination of the disease by 2022. This year in June, the then union health minister Harsh Vardhan urged the government to make the disease notifiable to help in accurately tracing cases and identifying areas where the disease was spreading.“Basically, the impact of the notification is that everyone has to report these cases. So, one we get to know the true burden of the disease. Such notification is especially important for a disease like malaria because there are few cases, that may miss the stay and this will help in micro-mapping,” said Dr Kaushik Sarkar, director, Malaria No More-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-makes-dengue-malaria-notifiable-diseases-to-help-track-cases-better-101635613020688.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Delta variant of Covid detected in 99% samples collected in October: Delhi govt||Delta variant and its sub-lineages of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were detected in 99% of the patient samples from Delhi that were sequenced during October, according to the Delhi government data.Over 7,300 samples have been sequenced from Delhi since Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) was set up early this year.Delta variant was found in 54% of the samples that were sequenced in April, and 82% in May, according to the government data. This was when Delhi witnessed a massive second wave of Covid-19 reporting over 28,000 cases in a single day at its peak. The data suggests, 39% of the total samples sequenced are that of delta variant.HT reported in June that the Delta variant of Sars-Cov-2 out-competed the Alpha variant within weeks and went on to spark Delhi’s most devastating wave of Covid-19, according to a study by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology that found delta to be more transmissible and better able to escape immunity generated through a natural infection or vaccination.
31-10-2021||Delhi||Reached limit of issuing new ration cards set by Centre: Delhi govt to HC||The Delhi high court has sought the Centre’s response on a plea seeking a ration card for a daily wage worker after the state government submitted that it has already reached the limit set by the Union government for issuing ration cards in the Capital. Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea by the worker who had applied for it eight years ago, was informed by the Delhi government that based on the 2011 Census, the Centre has set a limit of 72 lakh ration cards in the city, which stands exhausted.Earlier this month, the court had sought the Delhi government’s stand on why the application for issuance of a ration card by a daily wage worker was pending for eight years.“On the last date, Mr(Gautam) Narayan, learned counsel for respondent nos.2 to 4 (Delhi government and state food supplies and consumer affairs department), was granted time to obtain instructions. Today, he submits that no ration card could be issued to the petitioner as the limit for issuance of 72 lakh ration cards set by respondent no. 1 (Union government), based on the Census of 2011, already stands exhausted and, therefore, the respondents nos.2 to 4 cannot be faulted for not having issued a ration card to the petitioner,” the judge noted in her order dated October 25.“In the light of the stand taken by the Delhi government, it is deemed necessary to have the stand of the respondent no.1, i.e. the Union of India as well,” the order added.The court directed the Centre and the Delhi government to file their counter-affidavits within a period of four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on January 5.In the plea, the petitioner alleged that in spite of applying for a ration card in September 2013 and making repeated representations, no action was taken by the authorities. The petitioner claimed that she and her family reside in a jhuggi in South Delhi and the ration card issued in her husband’s name in 2005 was unilaterally cancelled by authorities in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/already-reached-limit-set-by-centre-on-issuing-ration-cards-delhi-govt-to-hc-101635612002060.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality may slip into ‘very poor’ zone soon, warn scientists||Even as the air quality in Delhi on Saturday improved just a notch -- from 283 on Friday to 268 on Saturday -- scientists have warned that pollution levels may rise from Sunday onwards, with the air in the city likely entering the ‘very poor’ zone influenced by a change in the wind direction.India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasters said on Saturday that air quality in Delhi may deteriorate between October 31 and November 2.On Saturday, a switch in the wind direction, coupled with relatively stronger local winds, prevented pollution levels from spiking, officials said.“Wind speeds might slow down from Sunday and this would adversely impact the city’s air quality,” a senior Met official said.According to the CPCB’s average AQI data, Delhi is yet to record a ‘very poor’ air day this month so far. However, several monitoring stations such as Dwarka, Jahangirpuri, Dwarka and Anand Vihar have been consistently reporting very poor air quality. The air quality in the city has quickly dropped between October 25, when the AQI was recorded at 82, and October 29, when the AQI was 283.
31-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Inmate stabbed by two others inside Mandoli prison, dies||A 39-year-old prisoner inside Delhi’s Mandoli jail, who was stabbed by two inmates on Friday, succumbed to his injuries on Saturday afternoon, prison officers said.The prison department has informed Delhi Police after which a case has been registered. Police said one of the attackers was Raghunath alias Vicky, a top gangster of the Rohit Chaudhary(RC) gang. A jail officer said the deceased, Mahesh alias Mannu Singh, was in the jail since 2014.Jail officers told police that on Friday morning, gangster Vicky and another prison Imran alias Golu, used an improvised weapon to stab Mahesh inside ward 3 of jail number 15 in Mandoli.“Mahesh was stabbed in his head. He was rushed to the jail hospital after which he was referred to the GTB hospital.in east Delhi. He succumbed to his injuries on Saturday,” the Tihar jail spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiinmate-stabbed-by-two-others-inside-mandoli-prison-dies-101635611463023.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Maoist, who escaped from Chhattisgarh court 7 years ago, arrested in Delhi||The crime branch of the city police on Friday arrested an alleged Maoist who was hiding in the national capital after escaping from a district court complex in Chhattisgarh seven years ago, officials said.Police said Anurag Sadlohar, also known as Dhabir and Haga, broke the wall of a lock-up of a district court in Jashpur, Chhattisgarh, on May 266, 2014, along with three others when they were brought for court production.Police said he was arrested for trying to extort ₹2 lakh from a Jharkhand-based businessman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/maoist-who-escaped-from-chhattisgarh-court-7-years-ago-arrested-in-delhi-101635611284957.html
31-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for bogus deliveries to AIIMS||Nearly two months after the Delhi Police began its probe into a case of fictitious deliveries of medical items at the ophthalmology department of AIIMS Delhi, the force’s economic offences wing (EOW) on Saturday arrested a 59-year-old trader for allegedly duping the institute of at least ₹13 crore.The case relates to a complaint of embezzlement filed by the medical superintendent of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Eye Centre of AIIMS early in September, alleging that government funds to the tune of ₹5 crore was spent on purchase of linen items which were never delivered. A subsequent audit raised the scale of embezzlement to ₹13.85 crore.“These items were purchased on the basis of forged supply orders. No actual supply of items took place, and payment was released to the supplier firm,” said additional commissioner of police (EOW) RK Singh.The officer said the police had then registered a case against the firm. Police said that two officials from the general store of the eye department have already been suspended.“The account statement of the firm confirmed receipt of payments for the items... But scrutiny of the e-way bills (electronic way bill, necessary for movement of goods)revealed that vehicles used for delivery never delivered the same at AIIMS Delhi on any of the dates mentioned. The GPS logs too showed their locations out of Delhi,” said additional commissioner Singh.Singh said questioning of the trader, Sneh Rani Gupta, revealed that he secured forged supply orders in connivance with some AIIMS officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitrader-arrested-over-fictitious-deliveries-of-medical-items-to-aiims-101635611250926.html
