02-06-2021||News||The invisible women in India’s labour market||India’s female labour force participation rates have been dismal over the past two decades. At 24.5% in 2018-19, its current participation rate is well below the global average of 45%, and is also the lowest in South Asia.Despite rising Gross Domestic Product (GDP), increasing educational attainment, rising household incomes, and declining fertility, women’s participation in the labour market has plummeted. Even worse, the gender gap in participation is overwhelmingly large and has been widening over the last decade or so. Moreover, there are considerable variations in the rates of women’s labour force participation between rural and urban areas (26.4% for rural versus 20.4% for urban women), and pronounced disparities are witnessed across Indian states.Multiple factors influence women’s decision to enter the labour market, including demand and supply-side drivers, prevailing socio-cultural and gender norms and attitudes. Specifically, women’s ability to work is influenced by their marital status, the number of children, caste, religion, gender, lack of essential education and vocational skills, and labour market discrimination.Also Read | With Shailaja’s omission, decoding the Indian Left’s gender blind spotAvailable evidence suggests that finding a paid job is much harder for women than men. And once they enter the labour market, women still face limited work options, have fewer learning and career advancement opportunities, and operate in deplorable working conditions. They are overrepresented in the informal economy, particularly in vulnerable, low skilled and poorly paid jobs that have limited social security. Equally concerning is the gender-caste intersectionality that is predominant in India and is manifested in differential employment outcomes for women.One of the often-cited explanations for the declining participation of women has been the rise in enrolment in schools and colleges – making them “unavailable” for paid market work. While this is true, evidence suggests that the decline is not limited to young women workers, and women’s participation has decreased substantially across all age cohorts, especially between 25 to 59 years.Furthermore, the relationship between educational attainment and women’s labour force participation is not unambiguous. The available data from National Sample Survey Office’s employment-unemployment survey and the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) depicts a U-shaped relationship between education and labour force participation rates of women, strongly evident in the case of urban women. In other words, women with no or less education and women with tertiary levels of education exhibit the highest rates of paid work participation, i.e. they are significantly more likely to be employed than women who have completed secondary schooling. Even so, relatively low labour force participation persists among highly educated urban women.The low participation rates, however, do not indicate that women are working less. Instead, women’s time and efforts are diverted to unpaid care work (such as raising children, caring for sick and elderly) and domestic work. Women spend disproportionately more time on unpaid care work in India than men, particularly if married. While essential to the welfare of society and the economy, these activities are not accounted for in the System of National Accounts and employment, which means that they remain unrecorded, undervalued and, therefore, find limited focus in policies and programmes aimed at improving labour market outcomes. The Time-use Survey of 2019 shows that, on average, a woman spends 19.5% of her time every day in unpaid responsibilities compared to merely 2.5% by a man. The International Labour Organization notes that the unequal burden of unpaid care constrains women from participating in the paid market work as they are “time-poor”.Another significant impediment is the lack of women-friendly jobs. Researchers have debated that the overall employment situation for women has not improved in the last couple of years and that the declining labour force participation is associated with their limited involvement in sectors that provide jobs in white-collar services.The Covid-19 pandemic has only amplified these inequalities further. As per one recent study, the time spent on household and care responsibilities has increased by almost 30% in India due to the closure of schools and care services. Consequently, women have dropped out of the labour market and perhaps may never return.Women face multiple constraints in society, limiting their mobility and labour market choice, forcing them to take non-wage employment, like working on family farms and rearing cattle, or remain out of the labour force. The need of the hour is to invest in gender-responsive policies to break down these barriers to women’s economic engagement.Policymakers should take a holistic and integrated approach to improve women’s labour force participation and their overall labour market outcomes by enhancing access to timely and impactful skill development, adequate maternity benefits and entitlements, access to affordable childcare facilities, household infrastructure and provision of other family-friendly policies to reduce the burden of unpaid care work and safe and convenient transportation and public infrastructure. Additionally, providing access to better-paid formal jobs or support for women-led entrepreneurship opportunities, investing in public services and women-friendly public spaces and addressing discriminatory employment practices are also critical.Imparting necessary vocational and technical skills can have a remarkably beneficial impact on increasing women’s labour force participation in India. According to a recent working paper by IWWAGE, various forms of training, such as formal vocational training, hereditary training, on-the-job training, raise the probability of women’s labour market participation in rural and urban areas.Finally, we also need to invest in robust data and evidence systems to better measure and count women’s unpaid work and design gender-smart policies and programmes for women’s economic empowerment and overall well-being.Ruchika Chaudhary is a senior research fellow, Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy (IWWAGE), an initiative of LEAD at Krea UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-invisible-women-in-india-s-labour-market-101622636345192.html
02-06-2021||News||As the pandemic hit, how much did India spend on health?||When the Covid-19 pandemic erupted last year, it caught the world, and India, by surprise. No one knew what the treatment protocol for the unknown disease was. Most countries were short of masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, and testing kits that would form the first line of defence, and hospital beds, oxygen units, and ventilators that would form the second.A year later, as India faced its second wave of infections, the most severe in the world so far in terms of daily cases, the supply constraints only worsened. Everything from testing kits to hospital beds, oxygen to ventilators, medicines to ambulances have seemed to be in short supply.Was India ill-prepared for this calamity? A good way to answer this question is to look at government spending (for both the Union and states), on health from 2019-20 to 2021-22.Union government’s health spending Although 2020-21 has come to an end, we do not have the final numbers on government spending yet. What we have so far are provisional spending numbers from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), which works under the ministry of finance.Also Read | ®India’s tax burden shifted from boardrooms to petrol pumps during Covid-19The headline numbers do not impress. In 2019-20, the ministry of health and family welfare spent ₹64257.8 crore. This amount was increased by just 4.4% in the 2020-21 budget estimates (BE), which were presented before the pandemic hit India. Health spending in 2020-21 was increased to ₹82,928.3 crore according to the revised estimates (RE) presented with the 2021-22 Budget.If the CGA numbers are any indication, ₹2,234.4 crore, or about 3% of the revised estimate, will remain unspent. The total allocation for the ministry of health in 2021-22 (BE) is lower than the 2020-21 (RE) numbers.State government health spending The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database has health spending numbers from 2019-20 to 2021-22 for 24 states. Unlike central government expenditure, there is no CGA like body which has recent updates on state government expenditure. In 2019-20, these states spent ₹1.34 lakh crore on health (medical and public health under social services). This was expected to increase to ₹1.64 lakh crore in 2020-21, as per budget estimates. This number was revised to ₹1.69 lakh crore as per the revised estimates published in 2021-22. These 24 states are expected to spend ₹1.9 lakh crore on health in 2021-22.The actual spending in 2020-21 will only be known when the actual estimates are published in 2021-22. States spend more than the Union when it comes to both revenue and capital spending.Capital spending on health The trend in capital spending on health by the Union government that will include creation of new health facilities is revealing. It was a paltry ₹1666.9 crore in 2019-20. The 2020-21 BE numbers reduced it to ₹1065.7 crore, which was revised upwards to ₹4233.5 crore in 2020-21 RE numbers. However, only ₹3586.99 crore (or only 85% of the RE) has been spent by March, according to provisional figures by the CGA.The headline 97% number of the ministry of health is driven entirely by the 98% utilisation of revenue expenditure which made up 96% of the ministry’s total expenditure. Revenue expenditure is for recurring expenses such as paying salaries. The 2021-22 BE figure for capital spending is lower than both 2021 RE and provisional estimates put it at ₹2509 crore.The 24 states, for which data is available, have a higher capital spending on health than the centre. They spent ₹12256.7 crore in 2019-20. The 2020-21 BE number for this head was ₹20787.2 crore. However, this was slashed marginally to ₹20177.4 crore in the 2020-21 RE numbers.Many experts have pointed that the states have been forced to cut back on capital spending due to the pandemic’s economic disruption. The 2021-22 BE figures on capital spending health by these states is ₹29872.7 crore.When read with the shortfall of ₹600 in states’ capital spending as per 2020-21 BE and RE numbers, the overall rise in capital spending on health after the pandemic hit India is abysmally low. It is no wonder that the health infrastructure has been on the verge of collapse as the second wave rages through India.Not everyone is equally guilty for the poor health spending Some states devoted a greater share of their expenses to health in 2021-22 than others. Delhi, for instance, spent 12.4% of its budget on health according to the RE figures for 2021-22, over five percentage points higher than Assam, the next big state that used the most share of its expenditure for health. In comparison, the Union government allocated 2.4% of its budget to the ministry of health and family welfare.The only state – among the 24 for which data is available with CMIE – which spent less than this number is Telangana, which spent 2.39%. 12 states spent over 5% of their budget on health. Another nine states spent 4%-5% of their expenditure on health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/as-the-pandemic-hit-how-much-did-india-spend-on-health-101622630464956.html
