08-06-2021||News||The rural healthcare challenge||Covid-19 made inroads into rural and peri-urban areas during the second wave, with rural districts accounting for 53% of new cases and 52% of Covid-19 deaths in May, according to a recent report. This could be an even bigger challenge during a subsequent surge. Set within the larger context of a poorly funded public health system, the inadequacies of rural health care are immense.There is an 18% shortage of health subcentres (SC), 22% shortage of primary health centres (PHC), and a 30% shortage of community health centres (CHC) in rural India (2018), with just 3.2 government hospital beds for every 10,000 people.In mid-May, the government released the SOP on Covid-19 containment & management in peri-urban, rural & tribal areas. It lays down a comprehensive range of measures including surveillance, screening, isolation, referral; home and community-based isolation and monitoring; a three-tier structure for institutional Covid-19 management; post-Covid-19 management; mental health support; vaccination; and intersectoral coordination, community mobilisation and behavioural change, led by gram panchayats and community-based structures. While commendable in its approach, its implementation will be met with gargantuan challenges.Also Watch | ‘India’s recovery rate climbing up; right now at 93.94%’: Dr Harsh VardhanIt is important to understand the development philosophy that characterises India’s rural health system. Traditionally, rural health care in India has seen a prominent curative-preventive dichotomy. In contrast to urban areas, preventive care services, including maternal and child health services, family planning, and immunisation, have dominated rural health allocations, and curative care has been inadequate.Rural health services constituted only 27% of state public expenditure on “medical and public health” in 2015-16, while urban health services constitute 44%.Combating rural Covid-19 will not only entail a revamp of rural curative care infrastructure and manpower, but will also require a reorientation of health personnel competencies and public expectations from the rural health system.As of 2019, only 59.2% of SCs and 55.9% CHCs had auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and specialists’ quarters respectively, and 11.5% SCs lacked all-weather approachable roads. As of 2020, 34.2% PHCs functioned 24x7, while CHCs saw a 76.1% shortage of specialists, with only 51.7% CHCs having a functional X-ray machine.Similarly, many district hospitals, which act as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals for severe cases, remain highly deficient in critical care infrastructure. While schools and community halls can be converted into makeshift Covid care centres, a lot would depend on how we empower ANMs and multi-purpose workers as nodal persons at these centres.Turning a four-six bed PHC into a 30-bed dedicated Covid-19 health care centre (DCHC), with the provision of oxygen, drugs, and manpower, will be a mammoth task. Also, retraining medical officers and nurses would be pivotal since, in most cases, their clinical armamentarium remains largely restricted to simple ailments and maternal and child health care.It is unrealistic to expect that such extensive curative care gaps could be filled even temporarily within a short span, which makes it even more important to focus on preventive efforts (including vaccination), with double the usual strength for rural areas. The SOP has provisions for risk communication and community mobilisation measures and envisages a prominent role for village health nutrition and sanitation committees (VHNSC) and gram panchayats. However, this has to be backed with sufficient finances, technical assistance, and local autonomy. Addressing the maldistribution of Covid facilities between rural and urban areas is essential.Also Read | PM-CARES for Children’ scheme: SC gives Centre more time to draw up modalitiesDuring the first wave, many grassroots- and middle-tier public health facilities catered to essential non-Covid-19 health care requirements. Even a cursory examination of publicly available data reveals that such routine essential services suffered considerable disruption. With most rural health facilities involved single-mindedly in Covid-19 mitigation, the impact on routine essential care could get worse and can be disastrous unless adequate provisions are made. Haphazard management of other common febrile conditions in the Covid-19 scenario has been common.Interactions with grassroots health personnel reveal that even with a lesser caseload, segregation of patients in outpatient departments has been challenging. Further, while ancillary staff are recruited to assist in a range of activities from case monitoring to surveillance, the burden of training and preparing them often falls on overburdened health personnel. It will be crucial to address these in a rural flare-up of the pandemic.One important measure to facilitate surveillance, early detection, monitoring, as well as community participation in remote areas could be to involve the ubiquitous informal practitioners (IP) through appropriate crash training. The West Bengal government recently announced such a measure. While this could be contested by the medical fraternity, an emergency of this magnitude warrants extraordinary steps as the benefits exceed the risks. It has been shown that apart from convenience and affordability, cultural factors are an important reason for visiting IPs as they often have the faith of their communities. The SOP already envisages involving religious leaders to facilitate Covid-appropriate behaviour.The most favourable and enduring transformations are often forged in the crucible of severe challenges. While the rural challenge looks insurmountable, successful implementation could provide scaffolding for an exemplary rural health system that India has dreamt of ever since independence.Dr Soham D Bhaduri is a physician, health policy expert, and chief editor, The Indian Practitioner The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-rural-health-care-challenge-101623065913926.html
08-06-2021||News||Can exports boost India’s GDP in 2021-22?||On June 4, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the reserve bank of India downgraded its growth forecast for the Indian economy. India’s GDP is expected to grow at 9.5% in 2021-22 instead of 10.5%. Even as it made a downward revision in its growth projections, MPC noted a possible source of tailwinds to growth and said that “… the strengthening global recovery should support the export sector”. Can India exploit the export route to a faster economic recovery? The answer to this question is complicated.World GDP will surpass 2019 levels in 2021, but India’s post-pandemic recovery will be relatively muted A simple way to judge the extent (or lack ) of post-pandemic economic recovery for any country is to compare its GDP in 2021-22 with the 2019-20 (pre-pandemic) value. India was a better performer on this indicator according to data from the April 2021 World Economic Outlook (WEO) by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The April 2021 WEO projected a GDP contraction of 8% for India in 2020-21 and a growth of 12.5% in 2021-22. These numbers were 3.3% and 6% respectively for the world economy. Once IMF’s projections for 2021-22 GDP growth are replaced with the RBI’s, India becomes a laggard on this count. A Bloomberg poll of economists has projected India’s 2021-22 GDP growth at 10%, a number closer to RBI’s forecast than IMF’s April projections.Global trade will bounce back at a slower pace than GDP The recovery in global trade will be slower than that in overall GDP. The WEO database also gives projections on what it calls traded volume of goods and services. This number fell sharply during the pandemic, suffering a contraction of 8.5% in 2020. It is expected to grow at 8.4% in 2021, which means trade volumes will not regain 2019 levels this year. While the annual growth will remain higher than average at 6.5% in 2022, it is expected to moderate gradually going forward. Because the latest WEO projections seem to overestimate GDP growth for India, the associated import and export growth projections -- the former will exceed the latter until 2026 -- could be misleading.Foreign trade generated tailwinds, not headwinds, for India’s GDP in 2020-21 The argument that the Indian economy could gain from higher exports this year would hold true if India were a net exporter of goods. That is not the case. So, the net impact of trade on the economy will depend on what happens to imports as well. In other words, exports will have to rise at a faster rate than imports or imports fall at a faster rate than exports, for foreign trade to have a favourable impact on GDP. The latter is what happened in 2020-21. Trade deficit as share of GDP, was 1.27% in 2020-21, the lowest since 2017-18. If 2015-16 and 2016-17 are excluded, then the trade deficit to GDP ratio in 2020-21 is the lowest since 2005-06. A major reason for the abnormal fall in the trade deficit to GDP ratio in 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2020-21 was a crash in crude oil prices; it was less than $50/barrel in all these years. Because India is a large net importer of oil, oil prices have an important role in determining the trade deficit.Lowering of trade deficit in 2020-21 was not just cheap oil Although oil is an important determinant of India’s trade deficit, it is not the only factor. India is also a large importer of a variety of non-petroleum products, especially capital and intermediate goods. Because overall economic activity took a hit in 2020-21, even non-petroleum imports came down. This can be seen clearly if India’s trade deficit is broken up into petroleum and non-petroleum components. Both these components are expected to go up significantly in 2021-22. Crude oil prices are hovering around $70 per barrel, much higher than the average price of $44.8 per barrel in 2020-21. As the domestic economy picks up, even non-petroleum imports are expected to rise. To be sure, exports should go up as well, but then, India has been running a trade deficit in non-petroleum items for a long time. This means that the net positive impact of trade (net exports) on 2021-22 GDP might be lower than what it was in 2020-21.Exports could still play a role in economic recovery A senior private sector economist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that there is another route which could lead to trade driven tailwinds for India’s GDP. If exporters are bullish about their foreign markets, they could undertake higher investments and this may create a virtuous cycle of private investment led demand in the economy. This can compensate to some extent for weak consumer sentiment driven headwinds in domestic markets, he said.Also Read | Income Tax Department to launch new e-filing portal todayThis year’s Economic Survey had an important lesson on this count. It pointed out that a big reason for India’s exports underperforming Bangladesh’s was that the latter, unlike the former, was specialising in export of labour abundant goods, where both India and Bangladesh being labour intensive countries have a comparative advantage. While Bangladesh’s export basket is in keeping with this economic reality — textiles, footwear and apparel constitute 90% of its exports — around 40% of India’s exports are capital or technology intensive. As is obvious, realignment of export driven sectors to labour intensive goods can also generate a bigger positive impact on mass incomes and aggregate demand. If India has to exploit the export route, it will need to adopt a more pro-active policy than merely hoping that a statistical rebound in global trade can lift its economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/can-exports-boost-india-s-gdp-in-202122-101623060873625.html
08-06-2021||News||There is a gender gap in India’s vaccination coverage||India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive seems to have a gender bias.Women are lagging behind men in the vaccines administered so far. The Co-WIN dashboard gives a gender-wise breakup of the number of people who have been vaccinated so far. As of June 4, 178.9 million people have been given at least one dose of vaccines. Men comprise of 54% of this number. The gender gap in vaccines varies across states and union territories. Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh are among the worst performers. In two states – Kerala and Chhattisgarh — women outnumber men when it comes to those who have received at least one dose of the vaccine.What explains this gender gap in vaccination? It is important to get an in-built statistical bias out of the way before looking at probable causes. Men outnumber women in India. There were 943 women in India per thousand men according to the 2011 census. According to the population projections made for March 2021 by the National Commission on Population, there are likely to be 948 women per thousand men in India. So, is the number of vaccinated men outnumbering women just a function of India’s skewed sex-ratio?Also Read | US lawmakers push Biden for more Covid-19 vaccines and medical aid to IndiaThis is unlikely to be the case. India’s sex-ratio deteriorates as one moves from older to younger age-groups. This number is 1065 for the 60 and above cohort, 982 for the 45–60-year-olds cohort and falls to 939 for the 18–45-year-olds.Unfortunately, Co-WIN dashboard does not provide a gender-wise break-up of the vaccinated population for these age groups. It does give overall age-wise data on those who have received vaccines. As of June 4, this number is 44.1% for those who are 60 years and above, 36.5% for the 45-60 age group and 7.1% % for the 18-45 age group. Because women have a favourable sex ratio in the 45 and above age-group and it is the population in this age-group which has the biggest share in vaccines administered so far, they should have had a bigger share in the vaccinated population so far. That this has not happened shows that India’s vaccination policy has a gender bias.To be sure, not all states seem to have done badly in ensuring gender balance in vaccination. The following chart captures this in a simple way. Theoretically, the more favourable a state’s sex ratio in the 45 and above age-group and the higher the share of doses given to this age group relative to their share in vaccine eligible population, the better should the gender balance in vaccines be.Kerala and Chhattisgarh look like the perfect case in this chart and Delhi, with its worst sex ratio and low relative share of vaccination in the 45 and above age group, is the worst-case scenario. However, states such as Rajasthan and Telangana seem to be bad outliers.Why is this happening? Public health experts and women on the ground point to a variety of factors, including longstanding structural problems in health care, lack of awareness in rural areas, gender divide in tech access and the oversized control of male members of households on resources.“The gendered nature of health care access hurts women. For example, within the family, male members often get higher share of food and nutrition. It was therefore surprising that the vaccine policy was gender neutral, not gender sensitive,” said Soumitra Ghosh, a professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences.Take Rashi Devi, a 43-year-old woman in eastern Uttar Pradesh. A resident of Ballia district, Devi is aware of the vaccination drive but said that the elders in her village are not very keen on taking the shot. Moreover, the immunisation centre is not nearby and she doesn’t own a smart phone.“My husband will register our family along with the other men in our mohalla. He will get the first shot and I will take later; I have heard that after the jab, you get high fever for a week, so someone needs to take care of the household work during that time,” she said. Those between 18 and 45 have to register on the Co-WIN platform and book their slots.The first phase of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) conducted in 22 states and UTs in 2019-20 showed that an average of only about three in 10 women in rural areas use the internet, compared to about half the men. The average for urban and rural areas combined for these 22 regions shows that about four out of 10 women used the internet, compared to six out of 10 men.Such forms of discrimination, coupled with a critical shortage in vaccine supplies, also played into popular stereotypes that project men as the provider who go out for work and women as domestic.“There is a problem of access to information, access to gadgets and access to finances. Even though women are as vulnerable as men, they are seen as lesser priority. This can have hugely negative impact on maternal and reproductive health, nutrition and public health outcomes,” said Manjula Pradeep, director of the Dalit Human Rights Defenders Network. “This has a further damaging impact on women from marginalised communities, including those in frontline professions such as sanitation workers.”A way ahead to close the emerging gender gap can be using takeaways in previous mass vaccination campaigns and using the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) network, said Ghosh. “There can be special drives for women, and Asha can be incentivised for every Covid shot they administer. This can be successful because the Asha network is extensive and deep. We need an innovative and multi-pronged approach,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/there-is-a-gender-gap-in-india-s-vaccination-coverage-101623060093797.html
08-06-2021||News||An era of new-age school assessments||The government’s decision to cancel the class 12 board examinations, conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), in the backdrop of the devastating impact of the pandemic and public outrage, comes as a relief for thousands of anxious students and their parents.The issue now is about the parameters on which students will be assessed and marked this year. Equally important is the methodology that would be used to ensure objectivity in assessment. There is an old saying — one can, albeit with difficulty, defy the effects of bad teaching, but escaping the impact of bad assessment is onerous indeed.In the immediate context, boards can think of different permutations and combinations, prioritising student interests. It can, for example, set up panels to grade each student, and, after eliminating marks given at both the lower and higher ends, come out with an average score. To do so, it can rely on historical data of the students’ performances, particularly of their best year.Additionally, marks obtained in the class 10 boards, and in the internal assessments and practical examinations in class 12 may be looked into. Fortunately, most CBSE schools have conducted practical examinations and have uploaded the results. And in cases where all practicals may not have been conducted, it may well liberally extrapolate marks from subjects for which examinations may have been conducted. Not much would be gained by assessing performances in classes 9 and 11 as students in these grades tend to be more focused on honing their co-curricular skills and social networks. For objectivity, fairness and transparency, the results of a particular school may be required to be vetted by a partner school.Irrespective of any decisions that CBSE may come up with, there will be dissenting voices. However, this being a unique year all stakeholders will need to deal with the outcome with patience, trust and understanding. Universities, boards and schools need to come together in the best interest of the students.That said, given the fact that institutions of teaching and learning — both schools and colleges — will have to undergo cyclic phases of closure and opening, they may have to adhere to hybrid learning. Working out a renewed assessment and evaluation system that, in being objective, is also simultaneously flexible, to cater to hybridity, is most pertinent in the long-run.Attempts should be made to integrate regular in-house examinations with additional parameters of assessment such as communication abilities, critical thinking, creativity, ability to use knowledge for problem-solving, as well as collaborative social and citizen skills. The key idea behind such an evaluation is to understand the level of a student’s achievement of the objectives of the subject. While, in the early stages, these objectives could be set by teachers, students could be allowed to have some say, as they move on to higher classes. Evaluators can then correlate objectives to student performance. Multiple methods of assessments need to be used so that each child is assessed at her own level and potential, to help develop self-esteem and confidence.The board exams will have to be flexible in their approach, dissuading rote learning. This learner development can only take place if assessment is sequential and continuous with application to real life, through case studies, open book testing, multiple choice questions, research and project-based learning.Interestingly, the National Education Policy or NEP (2020) has provisions on regular formative assessments, designed to test conceptual clarity, analytical abilities and competence in terms of critical thinking. It also stresses on assessments, defining and identifying learning outcomes throughout the year through formative evaluation. Additionally, the provisions for stage-based assessments in classes 3, 5 and 8, in addition to board examinations in classes 10 and 12, and the idea of a national assessment centre, Parakh, to set benchmarks in standards are novel indeed.This new-age assessment, as NEP describes it, aims to bring big shifts. But to be consistent both in approach and analysis, it necessitates multiple pedagogical approaches enabling differential learning. At the most fundamental level, however, it will be dependent on the extent to which the capacity of teachers is enhanced. Empowering them to develop internal assessment models that deal with competency-based learning, skills, attitudes and values, instead of standardised pen-paper testing systems is a must. An attempt has to be made to integrate periodic and continuous evaluation with unGooglable questions which focus on critical thinking, creativity, problem-solving and decision-making skills. Most importantly, schisms have to be laid at rest, mindsets will need change, training in pedagogy, technology and classroom transaction will have to be done on a war-footing failing which we will never be able to break the stranglehold of rote-based, pencil-paper-oriented colonial systems of learning.Evaluating the performance of students is not just an external obligation, but is increasingly motivated by those who are involved in shaping it — faculty, staff, and institutional leadership. The need to put an alternative mechanism of assessment in place, robust enough to yield results both in normal times as well as in times of exigencies, is most imperative. Let us create an assessment system that is underlined by expertise and the ethics of trust.Ameeta M Wattal is principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road. Chandrachur Singh is associate professor, Hindu College, University of Delhi, and visiting professor at Kautilya School of Public Policy, Hyderabad The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/an-era-of-new-age-school-assessments-101622990312580.html
