01-05-2021||North East||Insistence on academic freedom is beyond question||There has been a series of media statements and letters to the President and the Prime Minister by academics asserting the incontrovertible need for academic freedom and bewailing the current assault on it. This insistence on academic freedom is of course beyond question. But one would like to ask if freedom can be divided into slots, each with its own criteria and limits, to be adjusted according to an obscure scale of “public interest” or if freedom by definition is indivisible. Such a notion appears to strike at the very root of equality, a bedrock principle of democracy. At the time some years ago when the police in Delhi had gone on the rampage and intruded on university campuses to mercilessly thrash students demonstrating on a serious public issue like civil rights or secularism or had looked the other way when hooded goons entered a campus under their very noses and mounted an attack on targetted victims among students and faculty, a section of academics had kept aloof from the widespread outrage sparked by such incidents. Their plea had been that such disputes had little to do with the essence of academic freedom. Their conviction was that academic freedom stood for disinterested and dedicated commitment to pure research away from the hustle and bustle of political or social disputes. Such disputes involved unavoidable bias, and academic freedom was according to them basically a painstaking cultivation of impartiality. Learned bodies paid little heed to pleas for a clear position on vital political issues even when such trends were acquiring an alarming character. One now finds some of them signing such petitions. This, one hopes, exposes the fallacy of their earlier position on academic freedom, which is still quite widespread. Is it at all possible, also desirable, to divide freedom into compartments? Can we, and should we, divide freedom into such hermetic compartments? Such as freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of religion, right of freedom to protest without fear, and of course academic freedom? Ultimately they all are but aspects of the freedom of mind. In Tagore’s memorable words, this is the broad domain where ‘the mind is without fear, and the head is held high’. And history has recorded numberless tyrannies that had stumbled on this rock and though thriving for some time had fallen flat never to get back on their feet. Democracy is a resolute commitment to this universal freedom to all aspects of life. It is not absolute, but the limits are those that are acknowledged by all without any reservation. If one pleads for freedom in his or her sphere of life, this must come with the unhesitating grant of freedom in other spheres. That entails the condition that you do not fail to rally round to any group fighting for freedom in deadly  earnest, as when labour are fighting for their hard-earned bargaining rights. Freedom can’t be the comfort zone where scholars wrestle with their problems without restraint, evincing little interest in the failure of courts to deliver speedy and effective verdicts. The independence of the judiciary does not depend on blemishless judgments drawing strength from some perennial source of undefiled and impartial judiciary wisdom that prompts totally objective conclusions. When world opinion condemns your lack of freedom, one does not blankly allege some conspiracy to defame the country, because you had partaken of the freedom of UN forums to criticise other countries found wanting in basic freedoms. The enemies of freedom make no such mistake. They hound out the free spirit out of every such slot by turns, and infiltrates their own henchmen. They turn upside down the whole edifice of freedom and revel in the vacancy as something they can inscribe their writ on. There is a struggle for freedom raging everywhere, and one does not enjoy the luxury of watching from the safety of one’s turf, hands in pockets. Guwahati-based Hiren Gohain is a former Gauhati University professor and a well-known commentator on social and political affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
01-05-2021||North East||Assam elections 2021: Parties junk exit polls||The ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress in Assam have all but junked the exit polls announced on Thursday evening since these were not “exact” polls with the former even releasing its own “exit” polls. Assam state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass released the party’s two-page assessment, referred to party insiders as their own exit polls, complete with the seats the party was winning as well as the seats of its allies — Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL ) — were winning. The BJP’s “winnability” list shows the ruling party bagging 70 seats while the AGP eight and UPPL five, much more than the simple majority mark of 64 in a house of 126. It has also listed 21 seats as doubtful,which means it could go either way. In the run up to the polls, the BJP regularly asserted it would win 100-plus seats. Assam had a three-phase Assembly polls on March 27, April 1 and April 6 with the Congress-led 10-party mahajot mounting a strong challenge to unseat the BJP-led four party mitrajot but all the exit polls have put BJP ahead of the Congress. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. State BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami told The Telegraph that exit polls are “not exact” polls even though most of these predicted the party retaining power. “We also have our own grassroots assessment which was released by our state president. Our assessment gives us 85 seats, two more than what is in the list. Exit polls are not exact polls. We are in a comfortable position,” Goswami said. The IndiaToday-Axis My India exit polls predicted  75 to 85 seats for the BJP-led alliance and 40 to 50 seats to the Congress-led alliance. It has given Others 1-4 seats. Similarly ABC-CVoter too has put the BJP-led alliance ahead by 58-71 seats to Congress-led alliance’s 53-66 seats. It has given 0-5 seats to others. NDTV’s Poll of exit poll gave BJP and allies 76 seats to the Congress and allies 49. According to Today’s Chanakya, the BJP alliance is getting 70 seats to Congress alliance’s 56 and others 0-3. Republic TV-CNX exit poll has given the BJP-led mitrajot 74-84 and 40-50 seats to Congress-led mahajot. It has given others 1-3 seats. State BJP MP Pallab Lochan Das, too, said the BJP would be winning a majority on their own. “People have voted for our government’s performance, especially our Covid management, beneficiary schemes, especially those aimed at the women folk, and overall development. Covid management and beneficiary schemes were the real game-changers, which touched people,” Das, a prominent tea community leader, told this newspaper, adding the people have rejected the “anti-Assam” Congress-AIUDF alliance. The Congress understandably does not agree with the exit polls nor the BJP’s assessment. State PCC president questioned the basis on which exit polls are held. “What is the scientific basis? What is the sample size? Very small. And this time they did not visit the interiors because of Covid-19. These polls are manipulated. Our mahajot is winning at least 75 seats,” Bora said. Like the BJP spokesperson, senior Assam PCC member Diganta Choudhury, asserted exit polls are not exact polls. “We have been saying from the outset that we are winning, our alliance will be getting 77 seats. Wait for May 2. We are winning because of Opposition unity and for effectively reaching out to the tea community and the unemployed.” In 2016, the BJP-led alliance had won 86 seats while the Congress and the AIUDF, contesting on their own, had won 26 and 13 seats respectively. In place of the BPF, the BJP this time joined hands with the UPPL. AICC secretary Bhupen Kumar Borah too felt that it would be better to wait till May 2. “People have voted against BJP’s non-performance and polarisation agenda, for failing to fulfil the promises it made before the 2016 Assembly polls — of protecting jati, mat and bheti,” he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
01-05-2021||North East||Covid: Mizoram seeks support of community leaders and civil society organisations for curbs||Mizoram, which is observing lockdown-like restrictions since April 20, has started mobilising the support of community leaders and civil society organisations before announcing stricter preventive measures as a substitute for complete shutdown to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. During a meeting convened by governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai at the Raj Bhavan in Aizawl on Friday to discuss the Covid-19 situation with leading NGOs, religious leaders, ex-servicemen and journalists, among others, Mizoram health minister Dr R. Lalthangliana spoke about imposing stricter standard operating procedures. “The restrictions currently imposed do not seem to have broken the chain (of infection). The government will have to enforce even stricter restrictions soon,” an official said, quoting the health minister. Till Friday morning, Mizoram had 1,123 active Covid cases and 14 deaths. On Thursday, 140 people tested positive and one died due to the virus. On April 20, Mizoram was the first to announce a near-lockdown in the Northeast, for seven days in Aizawl city and 10 district headquarters following a recommendation from NGOs, academicians and Church leaders in view of the rise in Covid cases. On that day, the number of active cases stood at 414 and the death toll at 12. Lalthangliana said the series of lockdowns in the state had been effective but since Covid cases are rising rapidly, he admitted the government will have no option but to enforce stricter measures as a substitute for lockdown while calling for continued cooperation from all NGOs, civil societies and churches. These organisations are very influential in the state. “The good cooperation and good compliance with the guidelines on containment of the pandemic is the reason why the fatalities are as low as 14 till date, compared to other northeastern states. The support from the civil society is a factor that makes a difference in Mizoram,” the health minister said. Mizoram was the first state to enforce a lockdown, even before the nationwide lockdown was announced in March 2020, the first to screen passengers at the only airport at Lengpui, close state boundaries and international boundaries and set up effective task forces at village/local, district and state levels. These are the reasons why Mizoram was one of the least affected states in the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting, which lasted for over an hour, saw the participants, including the NGO and Church leaders, pledge continued support to the state government, assuring to assume a more proactive role in mass awareness on Covid-appropriate behaviour. Soon after the meeting, the state-level task force on Covid-19 started reviewing the situation to come up with a “stricter” SOP, an official said. Governor Pillai said Mizoram too was experiencing a rapid rise in cases like elsewhere in the country. The intention of convening the meeting, Pillai said, was to strengthen and augment the state government’s “proactive measures” towards Covid-19 management and urge the public to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. “In fact, we are one of the better performing states in terms of Covid cases and deaths. Of course, this has been possible due to the valuable support from the civil society, including the religious bodies and various community-based organisations,” he said. The governor focussed on urging the participants not to lower their guard and collectively create awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour such as social distancing, wearing masks properly and frequent washing of hands. “While these Covid-appropriate behaviours seem very trivial, they are in fact absolutely essential, and they are our only effective weapons in fighting this disease... Persons who neither wear masks nor practise physical distancing have a 90 per cent risk of contracting the virus. Together, we will emerge victorious,” Pillai said. Neighbouring Assam on Friday too started mobilising the support of community leaders by revising its SOP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
