03-05-2021||North East||India archer Jayanta Talukdar admitted to ICU after testing positive for Covid-19||Former Olympian and World Cup gold medallist Jayanta Talukdar was being treated in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for low oxygen count a week after he was diagnosed with Covid-19, his father Ranjan Talukdar said. “His oxygen level had started plummeting to 92-mark so was shifted to ICU yesterday (on Sunday). He is doing fine with an oxygen cylinder but the level drops the moment it's removed,” Talukdar senior told PTI. He was hospitalized at the Kalapahar Covid Care Hospital on May 27, his father added. The 35-year-old product of Tata Archery Academy had returned to his hometown about a month ago after he failed to make the cut for the Olympic-bound India team and possibly contracted the virus from his doctor wife. “His wife first got the infection but she has now recovered. Possibly from her Jayanta got the infection,” the senior Talukdar said. He further said they live in a faraway place and they were doing fine after taking the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. The 2012 London Olympian had achieved his career-best world number two ranking after winning back-to-back individual World Cup gold medals in stage one (Porec) and stage two (Croatia) of the World Cup in 2006. He also won an individual bronze medal at the New Delhi Commonwealth Games 2010 and was a key member of the Indian side with Rahul Banerjee, Tarundeep Rai, and Mangal Singh Champia who had become world number one in the build-up to the London Olympics. An Arjuna Awardee, Talukdar has also won two Asian Games team bronze medals in 2006 Doha and 2010 Guangzhou.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
03-05-2021||North East||Assam Assembly polls 2021: Saffron camp retains power with cuts||The BJP-led alliance is set to win a second straight term in Assam but with a reduced margin — its shrill polarisation pitch, populist policies and development initiatives trumping the Congress-led Mahajot’s welfare guarantees. According to the Election Commission, till 11.30pm the ruling alliance of the BJP (59) AGP (9) and the UPPL (6) had won or were ahead in 74 seats, while the Congress-led 10-party Mahajot was ahead in 50. The Congress was ahead in 29 seats. Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, a popular leader who led the anti-citizenship act protests in Assam and is now in jail, was set to win the Sivasagar seat. The majority mark is 64 in the House of 126. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal thanked the people for reposing faith in the ruling alliance, terming the victory as the people’s victory and promising to work more enthusiastically for all sections of the society and expediting the overall development of the state. Political analyst V. Tripathi attributed the ruling alliance’s victory to its development initiatives, religious polarisation and populist policies and the Congress’s lack of leadership. The polarisation pitch intensified when the Congress and the AIUDF joined hands, he said. Ruling alliance leaders, especially senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, were relentless in their attack on the Congress-AIUDF, saying a vote to the Mahajot would be a vote to AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal, accused by the BJP and its allies of promoting the interests of infiltrators. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP-AGP-BPF alliance had won 86 seats to unseat the then ruling Congress, which could manage only 26 seats. The AIUDF, contesting separately, had won 13 seats. The Congress, not in the picture till February second week, did well to put up a fight. Congress insiders said an intra-party power tussle till January, the absence of an acceptable and inspiring state leader to lead the campaign and the alliance with the AIUDF had proved costly. Among the biggest losers were Assam Congress president Ripun Bora and Assam Jatiya Parishad chief Lurinjyoti Gogoi. Bora later quit as state Congress chief. “The leadership had been warned against the alliance and had been asked to name a new state leader. The alliance helped the AIUDF more than us. But we must also praise the role of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam Jitendra Singh of uniting the warring leaders and launching a well-oiled campaign, but it was too little too late,” a Congress leader said. Total seats        126 Majority             64 Leads and wins BJP+                74 Congress+       50 Others               2||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
