06-05-2021||North East||More Assam MLAs with criminal cases ||The number of recently-elected MLAs in Assam with criminal cases and assets over one crore has risen. As many as 34 MLAs out of 126 have declared criminal cases against them — ten more than in 2016. Most of these legislators belong to the Opposition Congress (12) followed by the AIUDF (10), the ruling BJP (9), the AGP (1), the United People’s Party Liberal UPPL (1) and Independent (Raijor Dal) one, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR ). Similarly, there are 28 winning candidates with declared serious criminal cases including murder, attempt to murder, crimes against women. One of them is facing murder charges, five attempt to murder and two facing cases related to crime against women. Here the ruling BJP with seven MLAs leads the chart of winning candidates with serious criminal charge followed by ten from Congress, eight from the AIUDF, one each from the AGP, the UPPL and Independent (Raijor Dal). Formed in 1999 by a group Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad) professors, this NGO carries out whereby detailed analysis of the backgrounds of contesting candidates to help voters make an informed choice. Its goal is to “improve governance and strengthen democracy by continuous work in the area of electoral and political reforms”. ADR has based its report on information the sworn-affidavits of the winning candidates available on the Election Commission website. The result of the three-phase Assam Assembly polls were declared on Sunday with the ruling BJP-led alliance winning a decisive mandate with 75 seats. BJP won 60 while the AGP nine and and UPPL six. The Opposition Congress won 29 seats and its allies All India United democratic Front 16 seats, Bodoland People’s Front 4 seats and CPM one seat. Raijor Dal won one seat. The number of crorepatis among winning MLAs has also risen to 85 in 2021 from 75 in 2016. Here 43 MLAs from BJP, 21 from Congress, eight each from the AGP and AIUDF, three from BPF have declared assets worth more than Rs one crore. Overall, 27 MLAs have assets of more than five crore and four with assets less than Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
06-05-2021||North East||AGP legislator backs Himanta Biswa Sarma as CM||A four-time AGP MLA Renupoma Rajkhowa has in a letter to party president Atul Bora thrown her weight behind BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma as the next chief minister of Assam. Rajkhowa’s letter, doing the rounds of the social media, has only added to the speculations over the next chief minister — incumbent chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal or Sarma. The BJP’s official line is that the parliamentary board will take a “call” on the issue but elected MLAs have started airing their personal views. Even Assam state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass had told the media on Tuesday that everyone knows that “one of them will become the chief minister”. The AGP is part of the BJP-led alliance that won the recently-concluded Assembly elections with a decisive margin. United People’s Party Liberal is the other alliance partner. Rajkhowa in her May 4 letter urged Bora that the AGP legislature party take a decision backing Sarma as the next chief minister because he has worked for the all-round development of the state. She had made the request in her personal capacity and made it clear in the letter that she will abide by any decision taken by her party which won nine seats in the polls, down from 14 in 2016. When Rajkhowa’s response to the letter was sought, she said “talk to our president”. Bora, on his part, said he has also heard about the letter but is yet to go through it. On the other hand, a first-time BJP MLA from Ratabari in Barak Valley too on Tuesday said that personally he wants to see Sarma as the next chief minister but will abide by whatever decision the party leadership take. Malakar said Sarma was the reason he has become an MLA. Amid the MLAs airing their preferences, BJP national president J.P. Nadda said in Calcutta on Wednesday that the parliamentary board could not meet because of the post-poll violence in Bengal. Nadda said there is system for taking such decisions. “The parliamentary board will meet and then an observer will be sent. There is a system...,” he said. BJP insiders in Assam said in another two days everything will become clear. Few of them also hinted at the continuance of Sonowal for now but admitted Sarma was a very strong contender. The ruling BJP had won 60 seats, the AGP nine, and the UPPL six seats. On the other hand, the Opposition Congress had won 29 seats, the AIUDF 16, the BPF four and the CPM one seat. The majority mark in a house of 126 is 64.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
