07-05-2021||North East||Raijor Dal calls for unity against BJP in Assam  ||Raijor Dal, whose president Akhil Gogoi won the recent polls despite being in jail since 2019 December for his alleged role in the anti-CAA unrest, on Tuesday urged India’s Opposition parties to unite to defeat the “communal” BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The party, formally launched in January to fight the recently-concluded Assembly polls, issued the appeal while congratulating Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress for “decisively defeating” the BJP in the Assembly polls. Raijor Dal, which could manage to win only one (Akhil Gogoi from Sivasagar LAC) of the 38 seats it contested, said Banerjee led “from the front” and “ensured” that the BJP was defeated. The BJP’s defeat was crucial for “safeguarding and protecting” India’s democracy, India’s federal structure and India’s regional pride, the Raijor Dal said. “Mamata Banerjee’s great and historic win is a lesson to the fascist Modi-BJP regime. Raijor Dal hopes India’s Opposition parties will now unite to provide India with a democratic and inclusive alternative to the BJP (where there will be equality for all, economic stability), to defeat the communal BJP in the next Lok Sabha elections,” the statement said. The statement also referred to Akhil Gogoi, 45, who “contested the election from prison to “decisively defeat” the BJP candidate from Sivasagar in Upper Assam. Gogoi defeated Surabhi Rajkonwari by 11,875 votes. Raijor Dal vice-president Rasel Hussain told The Telegraph that Mamata Banerjee has proved that the seemingly invincible BJP could be defeated. “That is why we want the Opposition to unite by shedding their differences to save India. The victories of both the Trinamul in Bengal and Akhil Gogoi in Sivasagar have come despite heavy odds. Gogoi’s win is a milestone, a vote for inclusive regionalism and fearless leadership. We did not have much time and our leader was in jail but we did well,” Hussain said. Gogoi faces as many as 52 cases. He has got bail in all but one case. Though it was Gogoi’s debut electoral battle, he had been an important “anti-government” voice as the leader of the peasant organisation — Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti — he founded in 2005 and as an RTI activist. Raijor Dal, like its ally Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), was formed ahead of the polls to “secure” Assam’s interests from the threat posed by the contentious “anti-Assam” CAA. While Raijor Dal (29) won a lone seat, AJP (85) failed to open its account. Manash Konwar, working president of the Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti, said, “Gogoi’s victory is a message to those who believe in regionalism. People still want a strong regional force/party in Assam but not the regionalism of the eighties. ” The results declared on Sunday saw the BJP win 60 seats, its allies Asom Gana Parishad 9 seats and United People’s Party Liberal six seats in a House of 126. Similarly, the Opposition Congress won 29 seats and its allies — the All India United democratic Front 16 seats, Bodoland People’s Front 4 seats and CPM one seat. Gogoi on Monday said that he would continue to be the voice of the people of Assam in the Assembly and will always fight for its interests. He also urged the government to provide free vaccines to all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
07-05-2021||North East||Zubeen Garg offers property for Covid centre in Guwahati||Popular singer Zubeen Garg on Thursday offered a two-storeyed building here complete with basic facilities to the state government for use as a Covid-19 care centre as positive cases and deaths soared in Assam. Zubeen’s wife Garima Garg told The Telegraph they took the decision to offer the building, located near the forensic laboratory at Kahilipara here, on Wednesday night to help the administration tide over the unfolding crisis. The building belongs to Zubeen and three of his partners. “We can put up 30 beds in the building. Today we got in touch with the health department and the district administration. They will inspect the building and the area before taking a call. This is our and our friends’ humble contribution in the ongoing fight against the pandemic,” she said. Garima broke the news on social media. According to health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, though there was no shortage of beds, ICUs, ventilators or medicines so far, the situation had turned alarming with 4,826 Covid-19 cases and 55 deaths reported on Wednesday. The state had 29,915 active cases till Wednesday. The number of cases in the state were less than 700 till April 4 but the greater Guwahati area on Wednesday alone reported 1,383 cases. Three wards in Guwahati have been declared containment zones to check the spread of Covid-19. A senior doctor said they were handling about 500 cases in the first phase but the numbers in the second wave are much more, hinting there will be a strain on the infrastructure if cases don’t come down soon. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted: “In view of the rising cases and fatalities, had a discussion with Health Minister Shri @himantabiswa over phone regarding the ongoing #COVID19 situation. I have called for a VC with all DCs today at 2PM to review present situation.” Sonowal’s videoconference with deputy commissioners lasted close to three hours and was attended by the chief secretary and the director-general of police. Some of the directives issued by Sonowal: ⚫ Deputy commissioners told to regularly visit Covid centres in their districts. ⚫ Health department asked to ensure adequate supply of oxygen. ⚫ Take steps to control prices of essential items and medicines used for treating Covid-19. ⚫ Provide prior information to locals before declaring containment zones. Though results of the three-phase Assembly elections in Assam were declared on Sunday with the BJP-led alliance winning a decisive majority, there has been no apparent movement on 
the formation of the next government nor declaration of the name of the next chief minister till Thursday evening. “Government formation should be completed as soon as possible given the alarming corona(virus) situation,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
07-05-2021||North East||Covid: Tripura DM shunted over wedding ‘raids’||The BJP-led Tripura government has transferred a district magistrate following an order from the high court to ensure an impartial probe into his role in last week’s “unfortunate storming and raiding” of two wedding functions in Agartala for allegedly violating the night curfew imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. A video of Agartala-based West district magistrate Shailesh Kumar Yadav’s high-handed action to stop the weddings had been shared widely, attracting widespread condemnation and three writ petitions seeking action against the official. Yadav was transferred on Wednesday to Belonia as the South Tripura district magistrate, around 100km from state capital Agartala. A division bench of High Court of Tripura comprising Chief Justice Akil Kureshi and Justice S.G. Chattopadhyay acting on the writ petitions in connection with the April 26 incident also reconstituted the government-appointed inquiry committee by including retired district judge Subhash Sikdar in view of the “sensitive nature of the incident, serious allegations and counter allegation made by both sides...” The bench also said: “The report of the inquiry shall not be published without first placing it before the Court and without the leave of the Court.” The writ petitions were filed by an advocate, the priest who solemnised the marriage and the father of the bride. The advocate sought action against Yadav based on the video footage of the alleged incident on social media while the priest complained of the official’s alleged misconduct and assault on him and other members of the marriage party. The video shows Yadav slapping the priest, shoving out the groom, ordering everyone out and even tearing the formal wedding permission granted by him. The father of the bride has accused Yadav of using “filthy language targeting the women present in the marriage hall but also outraged the modesty of some of the women touching them improperly”. On May 3, the high court had requested the government to shift Yadav out of Agartala for an impartial probe. The bench said: “In response to the said request, the learned Advocate General stated... that the District Magistrate has been divested of all charges. “It was stated that he has gone on leave for 12 days with permission to leave the station and, therefore, this would be sufficient compliance of the request of the Court. We were, however, of the opinion that this would only be a stopgap arrangement and in any case does not satisfy the request...” With the court firm on the transfer, the advocate-general said the government would transfer the district magistrate. The order for Yadav’s transfer was issued soon after. Yadav had in his police complaint claimed he was seeking to enforce the restrictions of not more than 50 people in a marriage ceremony in any closed hall and also the night curfew, both of which were part of the order that he passed on April 22 under Section 144 of the CrPC. The court said one of the “serious issues” is the allegation of the petitioners that a large number of family members and guests attending the marriage were detained at the police station for a considerable period of time on the instructions of Yadav. Those detained included women and children. The court said: “In response to this allegation the respondents have filed an affidavit stating that no arrest or even detention was ever made. The members present at the hall were brought to the police station since after the curfew hours they did not have a passage home. “Therefore, in order to provide safe passage they were brought to the West Agartala Police Station and the women and children were taken to the Women’s Police Station.” The court added: “We are unable to appreciate why if the administration was desirous of providing a safe passage to the citizens, the same could not have been done from the marriage hall or the outside precincts thereof and what was the need for bringing the entire marriage party including women and children to the police station. We will inquire into this allegation minutely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
