08-05-2021||North East||Assam BJP leaders Sarma, Sonowal meet party chief JP Nadda, Amit Shah in Delhi||Amid speculation over the next chief minister of Assam, BJP leaders from the state Himanta Biswa Sarma and Sarbananda Sonawal separately met party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah here on Saturday. Both incumbent Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Sarma were on Friday called to New Delhi by the BJP central leadership, apparently to discuss the leadership issue of the next government. Though both leaders from Assam reached Delhi on Saturday morning it was Sarma who reached Nadda's residence first to meet him and BJP general secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh. They were later joined by Amit Shah. After Sarma left, Sonowal met the BJP's top brass. Talks related to formation of the next government in Assam and who will be the chief minister dominated the meetings. Sonowal, who belongs to Assam's indigenous Sonowal-Kachari tribals, and Sarma, the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance, both are contenders for the top post of the Assam government. The BJP had not announced a chief ministerial candidate before the Assembly polls in Assam. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP had projected Sonowal as its chief ministerial candidate and won, forming the first saffron party government in the northeast. This time, the party has been maintaining that it would decide who would be the next chief minister of Assam after the elections. In the results announced for the 126-member Assam assembly last Sunday, the BJP won 60 seats while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
08-05-2021||North East||Four CMs of North East back Modi on Hemant Soren jibe ||Four chief ministers from the Northeast on Friday sprung to the defence of Narendra Modi after their Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren claimed that the Prime Minister on Thursday shared his “mann ki baat” on the Covid-19 situation during a telephone call instead of also listening to what he had to say on the pandemic. Soon after the call from Modi on Thursday night, Soren tweeted in Hindi that it would have been better had the Prime Minister talked — and heard — about “kaam ki baat (important issues)” instead of sharing his “mann ki baat”. Mann Ki Baat is a radio broadcast hosted by Modi on the last Sunday of a month where he touches upon topical issues and inspiring achievements. Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio was the first chief minister from the Northeast to respond to Soren’s tweet followed by his Mizoram and Assam counterparts. Rio even nudged Soren to retract his statement. “In my experience as a Chief Minister for several tenures, Honourable @PMOIndiaShri @narendramodi has always been sensitive to the concerns of the states, particularly of the Northeast states. I disagree with Shri @HemantSorenJMM and I hope retracts his statement,” Rio tweeted. Modi also discussed the Covid-19 situation with the chief ministers of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on Thursday. Mizoram chief minister and MNF leader Zoramthanga followed Rio by praising an “active, attentive and very responsive” Modi. “We are really fortunate to have an active, attentive and a very responsive Prime Minister like Shri @narendramodi ji in times like this. I personally find it quite comforting, getting his calls; inquiring about my state’s Covid-19 situation, forest fires, refugee problems, etc,” Zoramthanga tweeted. Around the same time, Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh claimed Modi’s calls are reassuring while urging Soren to “let the collective spirit be our guiding light”. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal found Soren’s attempts to “politicise” the issue unfortunate. “@HemantSorenJMM ji, it’s really unfortunate that you are trying to politicise the Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s concern and work for people. PM Modi ji’s every effort and action are only for the people and the Nation,” Sonowal tweeted. Media reports quoting sources close to Soren, who leads the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha government in alliance with the RJD and the Congress, claimed that Modi had indulged in a monologue instead of hearing what the chief minister wanted to say or what he needed to cope with the crisis in his state, one of the worst affected by the pandemic. Soren’s tweet has received over 66,000 likes and 11,000 comments, besides being re-tweeted over 27,000 times till 7pm. The BJP rules Assam and Manipur and is an ally of the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) in Nagaland. The Mizo National Front is in power in Mizoram. Both the MNF and the NDPP are part of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a forum of non-Congress parties in the region floated by the BJP. Himanta Biswa Sarma, convener of the NEDA and the man seen as one of the two contenders for the post of chief minister in Assam, had tweeted in Hindi on Thursday night that Soren’s tweet was unbecoming of a chief minister and made mockery of the people of Jharkhand whose plight Modi was trying to ascertain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
08-05-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Sonowal puts pandemic before fight for CM post||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday said that saving the people of the state from the pandemic was more important than thinking about who will be the next chief minister. Sonowal made the comment in response to queries from journalists on formation of the next government and who will be the chief minister since there has been nothing official from the BJP leadership even though the Assembly election results were declared on Sunday, with the Opposition criticising the ruling BJP for the “glaring delay” during the pandemic. “There will be a government. Definitely there will be a government before long but today it is our duty and responsibility to save the people of Assam from the virus. All should discharge their responsibility in this fight against the pandemic,” Sonowal said after inspecting a Covid-19 centre here. Sonowal’s reaction, his first, came amid intense speculations over who will be the next chief minister after the BJP-led alliance won a decisive majority five days ago. State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass had said a few days ago that everybody knows that either Sonowal or senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma will be the chief minister, adding to the speculations. “Lots of reports are doing the rounds. In the next couple of days the parliamentary board will meet and take a final decision. You all should therefore not think much about it (who will be the chief minister). Rather we all should discharge our duty and save the people of Assam from the pandemic,” Sonowal said. The term of the present Assembly ends on May 24, an official said. The Opposition Congress and the Anchalik Gana Morcha have attributed the delay to the intra-party power tussle for the chief minister’s post putting the BJP leadership in a dilemma. Bobbeeta Sharma, chairperson of the PCC media department, told The Telegraph that the BJP not being able declare its chief minister even after getting a decisive mandate from the people of Assam speaks volumes about the “internal squabble” over the issue. “All is not well in the BJP given the glaring delay. It also exposes its lackadaisical attitude towards the people of Assam who are in the midst of a surging Covid-19 pandemic that needs clear direction from a leader who can lead from the front. “The fate of Assam is hanging although we did not have a hung mandate. What the future may hold is also a big question. Are we going to have a stable government if declaring a chief minister takes such a long time?” Sharma asked. Even BJP insiders said the delay was “glaring” and “exposed” the power tussle as well as the leadership’s dilemma in choosing between Sonowal and Sarma even though most point towards the continuance of Sonowal who had on Thursday reviewed the Covid-19 situation with deputy commissioners. Health minister Sarma too has been going around as usual toning up the infrastructure to treat Covid patients. Till Thursday, there were 31,829 active cases in the state, most detected since April 4 when Assam had only 617 active cases. Anchalik Gana Morcha’s Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, a Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, too flayed the ruling party, saying it was really a matter of shame if a disciplined party like the BJP is not able to take a call on the chief minister though the poll results were declared on Sunday. The BJP-led alliance had won 75 seats while the Congress-led Opposition alliance bagged 50 with Raijor Dal winning a lone seat in the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
