09-05-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma named next Chief Minister of Assam||North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma has been unanimously elected as the leader of the BJP Legislature Party on Sunday and consequently will soon be invited to form the government as the Chief Minister of the state, central observer and Union Agricultural Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Sunday. Sarma's name was proposed by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and seconded by BJP state party president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and newly elected Haflong MLA Nandita Garlosa. As no other name was proposed, ''Sarma has been unanimously elected as the BJP Legislature Party leader''. Tomar said BJP will soon hold a meeting with its alliance partners the AGP and the UPPL. The AGP Legislature party which also held a meeting on Sunday announced that it would support the leader elected by the BJP Legislature Party. Earlier in the day, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tendered his resignation to Governor Jagadish Mukhi who as is tradition, asked him to continue till the formation of the next government. The party's central leadership had summoned Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, both contenders for the top post, to New Delhi on Saturday for discussions on the formation of the next government in the state. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||North East||Sarbananda Sonowal resigns as Assam CM ahead of meeting with BJP top brass||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday tendered his resignation to Governor Jagadish Mukhi prior to a meeting of the BJP Legislature Party which is expected to elect the next Chief Minister of the state, Raj Bhawan sources said. As is the tradition, the Governor asked Sonowal to continue in office till the formation of the new government. The party's central leadership had summoned Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, both contenders for the top post, to New Delhi on Saturday for discussions on the formation of the next government in the state. The duo held a series of meetings, lasting for more than four hours, with BJP President J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, following which Sarma said the BJP's legislature party is likely to meet on Sunday and all questions related to the formation of the next government will be answered there. The BJP had not announced the name of the Chief Minister before the polls and speculations are rife for the last one week on who would be the next Chief Minister of the state. However, late at night, sources in Guwahati said the scales appeared to have tilted in favour of a leadership change, suggesting Himanta could become chief minister. Sonowal was projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate during the 2016 polls which the BJP had successfully won, making him the first BJP chief minister in the North East. On the other hand, Himanta, who had crossed over to the BJP from the Congress and used his political management skills to pave the expansion of the BJP in the northeast, had laid a claim for the chief minister’s post this time. The pressure from Himanta had put the BJP leadership in a difficult situation and this led to the two being called to Delhi to find an amicable solution. Himanta’s clout across the Northeast has proved to be an asset for the BJP and party insiders said they can’t afford to annoy or lose him. Sonowal is a low-profile, loyal and grounded leader, party leaders said, adding that under normal circumstances the leadership would prefer him. In BJP corridors, home minister Amit Shah’s liking for Himanta, however, is well known and many believe that he could push his case to get him the CM's post. The ruling BJP alliance is the first non-Congress government in the state to win an election for the second consecutive term. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: BJP tilts scales in favour of leadership change, suggests Himanta could become CM||The BJP leadership on Saturday  held lengthy discussions with the two claimants of the Assam chief minister’s post, Sarbananda Sonowal and Himanta Biswa Sarma, amid speculation over change of leadership in the state. Late at night, sources in Guwahati said the scales appeared to have tilted in favour of a leadership change, suggesting Himanta could become chief minister. After back-to-back meetings, first separately with the two claimants and then together, it was announced that a meeting of the newly elected MLAs would be held in Guwahati on Sunday to elect the leader, who will be sworn in as the next chief minister. “The BJP legislative party meeting will take place in Guwahati on Sunday. All your questions would be answered after the meeting,” Himanta told reporters, coming out of BJP chief J.P. Nadda's residence and left hurriedly. Current chief minister Sonowal too came out ahead of Himanta but he left without saying anything to the waiting reporters. The central leadership was tight-lipped about whether Sonowal would be allowed to continue for a second term or Himanta, the high-profile minister holding many portfolios in his government, would be the new face in Assam. Party insiders, however, indicated that a decision had been taken with the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the legislative party meeting will elect the leader of his choice on Sunday. “After meeting J.P. Nadda and Amit Shah, Himanta briefly met Modiji,” one BJP leader said, indicating that this meeting had resolved the situation. The two leaders had been summoned to Delhi on Saturday and first it was Himanta who went to Nadda’s residence, where other leaders like home minister Amit Shah joined. After this, Himanta left and then Sonowal reached Nadda's residence. Finally, Himanta returned again and the party leadership held a long discussion with the two leaders, seeking to resolve the tussle for the top post. Himanta, who had crossed over to the BJP from the Congress and used his political management skills to pave the expansion of the BJP in the northeast, had laid a claim for the chief minister’s post this time. The pressure from Himanta had put the BJP leadership in a difficult situation and this led to the two being called to Delhi to find an amicable solution. Himanta’s clout across the Northeast has proved to be an asset for the BJP and party insiders said they can’t afford to annoy or lose him. Sonowal is a low-profile, loyal and grounded leader, party leaders said, adding that under normal circumstances the leadership would prefer him. In BJP corridors, home minister Amit Shah’s liking for Himanta, however, is well known and many believe that he could push his case to get him the CM's post. It’s widely believed that Himanta’s ambition to become chief minister of Assam had led him to quit the Congress and join the BJP. In the Congress, he saw little hope, given the dominance of the Gogoi family. “Hope the leadership manages to keep Himanta happy,” one BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||North East||High Court of Tripura takes up death linked to video||High Court of Tripura has taken suo motu cognisance of a married woman committing suicide by consuming poison on May 4 in south Tripura after a purported video of her in an “extremely intimate and compromising position with a man was shown” in public. A bench of Chief Justice A.A. Kureshi and Justice S. Talapatra on Friday directed the South Tripura superintendent of police to “supervise and guide” the investigation and the government to immediately block the video clips which may be in circulation on social media. The court had taken suo motu cognisance of the case on May 6 based on media reports of the “extremely disturbing news” published on May 5. Seven persons, including four women, have been arrested till Friday in connection with the case following the intervention of the court. “This suo motu public interest petition arises out of an unfortunate incident where one young married lady committed suicide on 04.05.2021 allegedly on account of extreme humiliation she was subjected to by some of the community members and residents of the village,” the court said. “It appears that the video clips of the deceased women shown in compromising position may be circulating on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. The respondents... shall ensure that all such circulations are blocked with immediate effect… he shall communicate these directions to the social media platform providers,” the court added. The video clip was shown in public comprising members from her village who it “appears” had gathered to discuss this issue, the court had said on Thursday. After asking the government to provide details of the case and provide security to the affected family, the court had said on Thursday: “As if this much humiliation (public screening of the video) was not enough, going by the news reports, what followed was the grossest possible violation of human rights and extreme humiliation that any human being can be subjected to by fellow human beings through most barbaric acts perpetrated on her.” Unable to bear these insults and humiliation, the young lady committed suicide by consuming poison, the court said. The state’s advocate general said a formal FIR was registered on May 6 after the post-mortem report confirmed that the deceased had committed suicide. “The FIR discloses commission of offences punishable under Sections 323, 354, 306 read with Section 34 of IPC. Statements of some of the relatives of the deceased girl have been recorded. The investigation is being carried out in full earnest and as directed by the Court the family members of the deceased woman are provided round the clock security,” the court order said. The IPC sections deal with voluntarily causing hurt (Section 323), using force to outrage the modesty of a woman (Section 354) and abetment of suicide (Section 306). The next date of hearing is May 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
