10-05-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma sworn-in as 15th Chief Minister of Assam||North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma was on Monday sworn-in as the 15th Chief Minister of Assam by Governor Jagadish Mukhi at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra here. Sarma, clad in traditional 'pat silk' dhoti and kurta with a muga 'gamosa' draped around his neck, took the oath of office and secrecy in Assamese. Along with him, 13 other legislators were also sworn-in as ministers amid strict COVID-19 protocols. Among the MLAs sworn-in, 10 from the BJP, including state party president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and ministers of the outgoing government Chandra Mohan Patowary, Parimal Suklabaidya, Jogesh Mohan and Sanjay Kishan. The new faces as ministers were Ranoj Pegu, Bimal Borah and the only woman in the cabinet, Ajanta Neog. Alliance partner AGP's Atul Bora and Keshab Mahanta, both ministers in the erstwhile government, and former Rajya Sabha MP U G Brahma of the UPPL, also took oath. BJP president J P Nadda, outgoing Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Union ministers Jitendra Singh and Ramesh Teli, Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphu Rio and Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora were among those present at the swearing-in ceremony. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance secured 75 seats with the BJP winning 60, the AGP (9) and the UPPL (6). The BJP alliance is the first non-Congress government in the state to win the elections for the second consecutive term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
10-05-2021||North East||Himanta to take over as chief minister of Assam ||Himanta Biswa Sarma, the erstwhile Congress satrap who helped the BJP achieve critical mass in the Northeast and who insisted there was no need to wear a mask in his state on April 4 when the second Covid wave was engulfing the country, will take over as chief minister of Assam on Monday. Sarma, 52, replaces Sarbananda Sonowal who helmed the BJP-led government in Assam when the state went to the polls and re-elected the party. The BJP and its allies won 75 of the 126 seats in the Assembly. The BJP, which has taken seven days to arrive at the decision to elevate Sarma, has ensured a smooth transition with Sonowal proposing his successor’s name as the legislature party leader in the presence of four central leaders at a meeting in the Assembly on Sunday afternoon. The elevation of Sarma, who is already the BJP’s most influential leader in the region, fulfils a goal he had relentlessly pursued since his days in the ruling Congress, which he left in 2015 to join his current party. Sarma had drawn widespread attention on April 4 when he told a portal: “There is no need to wear (a) mask now... in the context of Assam, Covid aaj ka din main nahin hain (there is no Covid today).… I have told the people this is interim relief. If there is Covid, I will inform you and you will have to wear (a) mask or you will have to pay Rs 500 in fine(s).” The day he gave the interview, Assam had recorded 69 cases and two deaths, taking the number of active cases to 617 in the state. The overall death count in the state on that day stood at 1,109. On May 8, the active cases in Assam stood at 36,799 with 5,756 cases and 50 deaths reported during the day. The overall death toll was 1,628. BJP insiders said Sarma had been rewarded for his performance and organisational skills. They cited his role in the party’s re-election and its growth in the Northeast. The BJP or its allies enjoy power in all the seven Northeast states. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah had backed Sarma to the hilt. The Opposition Congress and the AIUDF have congratulated the chief minister-designate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
10-05-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021:  Sonowal expresses confidence in Himanta ||Assam’s caretaker chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday expressed confidence that the newly elected NDA legislature party leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is like a “younger brother” to him, would take the state to greater heights. A week after the ruling alliance won the Assembly elections with a clear majority for the second successive term, Sarma was elected as the legislature party leader. Both Sonowal and Sarma were contenders for the top post. Sonowal, who proposed Sarma’s name as the leader of the legislature party, said the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) — the NDA’s version in the region — was like a “younger brother to me and I wish him all success in his new journey”. “Himanta has been given a huge responsibility and I bestow my love and blessings on him so that he can perform his duties well for the welfare and progress of all sections of the society,” he said while addressing the newly elected members of all three alliance partners — the BJP, AGP and the UPPL. The chief minister-designate has a long and rich political experience which will help him make Assam a developed state, said Sonowal. He said that for the last five years, the BJP-led government in the state had been able to win the people’s trust and confidence by bringing in peace, progress, security and development. “We thank the people for reposing their trust in us and giving us a clear mandate for the second successive term. I urge all the elected members of the alliance to work with dedication and honesty,” he said. Requesting the MLAs to work not for their personal goals but for the betterment of the society, Sonowal said, “Our aim should be to remain united and dedicate ourselves for service to the society, our state and the nation.” At the meeting, he also urged the new members of the Assembly to dedicate themselves to the fight against the second battle against Covid-19 by maintaining all protocols. Prior to the BJP legislature party meeting, Sonowal went to Raj Bhavan and tendered his resignation as the chief minister to governor Jagadish Mukhi who, as per tradition, asked him to continue in office till the formation of the new government. The party’s central leadership had summoned both Sonowal and Sarma, contenders for the top post, to New Delhi on Saturday for discussions on the formation of the next government in the state. The BJP had not announced the name of the chief minister before the polls and speculations are rife for the past one week on who would helm the affairs of the state. Sonowal was projected as the chief ministerial candidate during the 2016 polls, which the BJP had won, making him the first BJP chief minister in the North East. The alliance of the BJP, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) is the first non-Congress government in the state to win the elections for the second consecutive term. Of the 126 Assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with the BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
