13-05-2021||North East||Covid curbs: Party hosts to face murder bid charge in Assam ||The Assam government has announced stricter curbs bordering on lockdown to check the alarming Covid-19 situation in the state, including slapping attempt-to-murder charge on anyone hosting functions and parties in violation of safety protocols. Section 307 of the IPC deals with attempt to murder. It is a non-bailable cognisable offence and one could face up to 10 years in jail and more if convicted. The fresh standard operation procedure (SOP) to check Covid-19 was decided at the first cabinet meeting held under newly-appointed chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday evening but was announced by chief secretary Jishnu Barua and DGP BJ Mahanta on Wednesday. The cabinet had decided against lockdown for now. Mahanta, appealing to the masses to adhere to safety protocols, said the police will act tough against anybody violating the SOP and especially those secretly holding functions and parties.
“We will book them under stringent sections, beyond Sec 144 and ASDMA Act. If anybody dares to secretly host big functions, they will be booked for attempt to murder for conspiring against the society and betrayal of the country, irrespective of his/her standing in the society. “We will also not shy away from resorting to lathicharge if there is crowding in public places,” he said. The police chief later told The Telegraph that they have reports of people holding secret get-together at farm-houses/resorts attracting huge crowd in violation of Covid protocols. “We cannot allow this. This is crisis time. There are also reports of closed shops carrying out their business from inside. We will also act against them,” he said. The idea behind the attempt-to-murder announcement is to send a message to the public that the administration will strictly enforce the safety regulation since cases have soared since 
April 4. Though the government started tightening the curbs soon after the three-phase assembly polls ended on April 6, caution was thrown to the wind during campaigning by all political leaders cutting across party lines. Huge rallies were held. On April 4, the number of active Covid cases was only 617 but it has gone up to 39,264 till Tuesday. Tuesday saw the highest single-day spike of 6258 and death of 85 persons. If cases continue to grow steeply for couple of weeks, existing infrastructure could be come under huge strain, sources said. If positivity cases reaches five per cent in one week, the district administration will declare the area a containment zone. The fresh measures coming into force from Thursday include: ‣ All shops and commercial establishments to close down by 1 pm. ‣ Curfew hours will start from 2pm to 5am. Complete ban on movement except those engaged in emergency services or during exigencies ‣ Private vehicles to be allowed on odd-even basis except for medical emergencies between 5am and 2pm. In Guwahati, it will start with odd number from Thursday. ‣ No weekly haats/bazaars for 15 days. ‣ No physical class in educational Institutions for 15 says. ‣ Maximum 10 persons to be allowed for weddings/funerals/last rites. No reception parties post or pre wedding. ‣ Ban on pillion riding. Buses to operate at 30 per cent seat capacity ‣ Religious places to remain closed for 15 days The day also saw chief minister Sarma assigned the districts his cabinet colleagues will have to visit to take stock of cases, assess the adequacy of healthcare facilities to meet the present and anticipated number of Covid cases besides guiding and supporting the district administration by coordination with the health and other departments. Sarma will himself monitor the Covid-19 situation in Majuli, the Upper Assam constituency represented by his predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal. “The ministers will keep the chief minister and health minister informed about the situation on a regular basis,” the government said. Keshab Mahanta of the AGP is the new health minister, a post held by Sarma in the Sonowal government like Finance and Education. He has allotted finance to Ajanta Neog, the first woman to lead the department in the state, and education department to Ranuj Pegu. The Sarma-headed cabinet has decided to meet every Wednesday from 11am to 1pm except when the chief minister is out of station. On Tuesday, the cabinet constituted two committees to prepare the road map for implementation of two pre-poll promises — one lakh job and waiver of microfinance loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
13-05-2021||North East||Assam author Homen Borgohain dies ||Noted litterateur and veteran journalist Homen Borgohain, who had returned his Sahitya Akademi Award in protest against growing intolerance in the country, passed away at a private hospital here on Wednesday morning a few days after testing negative for Covid-19. Widely considered the voice of the downtrodden and a conscience-keeper of the society for his writings, Borgohain, suffered a fall on Tuesday night and was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead at 6.58am. He had tested Covid-19 positive on April 24 and had returned home after testing negative on May 7. The former president of Asam Sahitya Sabha had publicly announced his decision to return his Sahitya Akademi Award, which he had earned for his novel Pita Putra (Father Son) in 1978, in a newspaper column in October 2015 in protest against the “growing religious intolerance” and “fascist tendency’ in the country following the killing of a Muslim man in Dadri (Uttar Pradesh) for allegedly storing beef at home. Born on December 7, 1932 in Lakhimpur district, the popular writer and incumbent editor-in-chief of Assamese daily Niyomiya Barta is survived by two sons. He was married to another leading writer and Sahitya Akademi awardee Nirupama Borgohain but they had separated. The state government in its tribute said in the passing away of Borgohain, Assam has lost a great litterateur, who also immensely contributed towards the field of journalism. “His famous creations such as Halodhiya Choraye Baodhan Khai among others, will be cherished forever,” the government said. The film based on his novel Halodhia Choraye Baodhan Khai, directed by the acclaimed Jahnu Barua, had won the national award in 1988. His body of work included novels Saudor Puteke Nau Meli Jay, Astarag, Pita Putra, Timir Tirtha, Kushilab, Edinar Diary, Bisannata, Nisongota, Subala and Matshyagandhaa. He also had several short stories and poems to his credit. Before pursuing a career in writing and journalism, Borgohain had a brief stint as a civil service officer in Assam. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who was close to him and who attended his last rites performed with full state honours at the Nabagraha crematorium on Wednesday afternoon, said the deceased writer-journalist was one of his severe critics. “I had personal ties with him and took his advice. He was blunt in his criticism. It is a huge loss,” he said. Sarma paid glowing tributes to Borgohain by describing him as an epochal figure in Assamese literature, adding that the state has lost a guiding light in his passing. “He was a gifted writer who exhibited his prowess in all genres with equal ease. Borgohain had a deep understanding about human life and through his simple and unique style of writing eloquently highlighted its myriad facets. He has left an unparalleled legacy with his literary and journalistic contributions. His passing away is an irreparable loss and the Assamese society,” Sarma said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among those who mourned his demise. “Shri Homen Borgohain will be remembered for his rich contributions to Assamese literature and journalism. His works reflected diverse aspects of Assamese life and culture. Saddened by his passing away. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” Modi tweeted. ULFA (I) chief Paresh Barua in a statement said Borgohain, through his writings, articulated the issues affecting the indigenous people of the state. That voice fell silent on Wednesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
