15-05-2021||North East||18 elephant deaths in Assam’s Nagaon district highlight forest cover loss||Conservationists and forest officials on Friday said the death of 18 elephants attributed to a bolt of lightning in Assam’s Nagaon district on Wednesday night was perhaps the first time that so many of them have been felled in such an incident in the world. A group of 10 experts, including vets and pathologists, carried out the post-mortem of the elephants on Friday morning in the presence of senior officials and forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya. Though the post-mortem report will be submitted after three days, vets, conservationists and officials The Telegraph spoke to are more than sure that lightning was the cause of death. Though the officials would wait for the post-mortem report before making public the cause of death, Kaushik Barua, chairman of the Assam Elephant Foundation, said he was cent per cent sure that the elephants died due to a bolt of lightning. “Though we were also thinking of causes like poisoning, talking to the vets on the ground and with other domain experts, I am sure they died by a bolt of lightning. The area is lightning-prone,” he said. Barua said even world renowned veterinarian Markus Hofmeyer of South Africa after going through the visuals from the site and ground reports has attributed the deaths to lightning. “It is also the first time so many elephants have died due to a bolt of lightning in a single incident anywhere in the world. Elephants have been killed by lightning in Pattaya (Thailand), Sri Lanka, Bengal and Kerala but the toll has been five or below,” he said. A senior forest official echoed Barua. The “tragedy” has once again put the spotlight on Assam’s dwindling forest cover. Experts believe the elephants took the full brunt of lightning because of sparse vegetation in the area. “It is a natural event which cannot be stopped but maybe we can try to minimise the fatalities by conducting an intensive and urgent afforestation drive in the area and other animal corridors. The place where they were found dead — on a hillock — has very sparse vegetation or forest cover going by the visuals,” Barua said. Chief wildlife warden M.K. Yadava, who was part of the inspection team, also said that habitat improvement always helps but first the forest department will go through all the reports, including cause of death, and then decide on the future course of action. Since 2009, the Northeast has lost 3,199sqkm of forest area, according to the India State of Forest Report 2019, one of the reasons why human-animal conflict is on the rise in Assam. “It was a 2km one-way steep trek to the site which has very thin vegetation. There is no forest cover in the vicinity. This angle has to be looked into if we have to prevent a repeat. The affected herd had 40 elephants and rarely disturbed the local populace. It is very sad and tragic,” a young man told TV reporters at the site, his voice choking. He has been tracking the herd for sometime. The government had on Thursday night instituted an inquiry committee to probe the elephant deaths. Deputy conservator of forests K.K. Deori, who is the investigating officer, visited the site on Friday morning along with a team of around 10 vets. “The IO is allowed to undertake detailed investigation of local site, including water and salt lick quality, and may engage experts and agencies for the purpose, and carry out detailed fact-finding from fringe communities and first informants,” the official order said. The order issued by Yadava also said the team of vets has been asked to carry out detailed post-mortem of the elephants, including collection and examination of samples for all relevant investigations, in order to establish the actual cause of death. “Visited the elephants’ death incident spot near Bamuni Pahar, Nagaon to assess on-the-spot scenario and pay my tributes to the Nature’s precious assets today. An enquiry committee headed by an AFS Officer & a team of veterinarians has been instituted,” Suklabaidya tweeted. He added that the detailed investigation report which will be prepared within 15 days will unravel the exact reason behind their “tragic” death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
15-05-2021||North East||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visits Majuli||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited Majuli --  his first trip outside Guwahati after assuming charge on Monday. He promised the people of the Upper Assam constituency to “carry forward” all development work initiated by his predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal. The visit to take stock of the Covid situation in Majuli district assumes significance because the constituency is represented by Sonowal whom Sarma replaced after a “silent” power tussle where the BJP leadership favoured the latter though the BJP-lead alliance had won a comprehensive majority in the recently-concluded Assembly polls with Sonowal as the chief minister . “As a mark of my respect for Sri @sarbanandsonwal and immense love for people of #Majuli, I made my first outside visit as CM to this glorious place. I promised to people to carry forward all development work initiated by Sri Sonowal with renewed vigour,” Sarma tweeted. BJP insiders welcomed the visit, which they said was a “genuine reaching out” attempt by Sarma to convey his concern about the development of the river island, an important seat of Vaishanavite culture, besides assuaging the feelings of those who may have been hurt by the change of guard. Sonowal, whose graceful handling of the transition has earned him all-round praise, reciprocated Sarma’s sentiments with a tweet, “Thank you HCM Shri @himantabiswafor your visit to my home constituency Majuli and giving due priority towards development of the sacred river island district.” During the visit, Sarma visited the three leading satras, met the BJP, AGP and Ganashakti workers and reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Majuli district. In fact, Sarma while assigning the districts they should visit to get a first-hand assessment of the alarming Covid situation in the state had chosen to visit Majuli. Besides attending to official and party chores, Sarma also had an interaction with eight young friends whom he had met during electioneering in Majuli. The boys had asked him come again. He also had lunch with the boys. Sarma assured the people of the river island that he would never let them feel the absence of a chief minister and that the pace of development in Majuli would receive greater momentum under the present government led by him while appreciating the development initiatives initiated by Sonowal. Sarma visited three satras — Sri Sri Dakhinpaat, Sri Sri Auniati and Sri Sri Uttar Kamalabari Satra, known for their rich repository of Satriya culture and tradition — and prayed for the well-being of Assam, a government statement said. He said the Covid-19 situation in Majuli is under control and assured that every eligible person of Majuli would get vaccine. While reviewing the Covid situation in Guwahati on Wednesday night, Sarma had directed the health department to conduct one lakh Covid tests a day for early detection of active cases besides increasing institutional quarantine, micro containment zones and Covid care centres in a bid to arrest surging Covid-19 cases. He has also decided that the government will provide free food to the poor people in containment zones for two weeks. Till Wednesday, Covid cases touched 40,970 with 5657 active cases detected during the day which also saw 71 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
15-05-2021||North East||Two killed in grenade attack near Digboi town in Upper Assam||Two persons died in a grenade attack carried out at Tingrai Bazar near Digboi town in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district around 1 pm on Friday, the first attack carried out by unidentified assailants since Himanta Biswa Sarma took over as the chief minister on Monday. Two motorcycle-borne youths hurled the grenade in front of a hardware shop, injuring four persons of whom Sanjit Singh, 25, and Surajit Talukdar, 22 succumbed to their injuries at the civil hospital and the Assam Medical College respectively. Two others — Monjit Das and Ghanshyam Agarwala — were injured. The shop belonged to Turan Agarwalla. The blast site is about 500km east of Guwahati, and 23 km from Tinsukia. The deceased were customers. The attack took place when shops were closing down as per the new Covid-19 safety protocols to check the spread of the virus which has infected over 40,000 since April. Though the needle of suspicion pointed towards the involvement of the Ulfa(Independent) since its activities have increased in Upper Assam since December but the proscribed promptly denied any hand in the attack. Ulfa(I) chief Paresh Baruah called a TV channel and blamed someone from the Army and police  for the attack. He said the attack seemed pre-planned  and the new government should find out who is behind the attack which he said, came hours after they had sent a set of demands to oil and gas companies, mainly to recruit local people in their organisation. Assam’s newly-appointed chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had soon after his swearing-in had appealed to all insurgents to join the peace process, including the Ulfa chief, because killings and abductions won’t solve any problem. Condemning the grenade attack, Sarma expressed asked police chief Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to rush to the site, deal sternly with the situation and nab the miscreants involved. Sarma said: “This act of violence is a sign of desperation and cowardice. State government will never tolerate such kind of high-handedness leading to the loss of precious human lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
