17-05-2021||North East||Covid: Night shift must for senior doctors in Assam||The Assam government has made night shift for senior doctors a must at medical colleges to treat critical Covid patients after an analysis of the death toll revealed that most patients are dying soon after admission at odd hours. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma disclosed this after a 2.30am surprise inspection trip to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital here to check the “odd-hour” (night) treatment extended to critical Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Asserting stepping up critical care facilities in all the medical colleges during night when most deaths are reported has been the government’s priority, Sarma said senior doctors will be on night duty at the medical colleges so that patients get the same facilities they get during the day. “An analysis of the death toll has revealed that mortality rate of Covid patients is high during night as compared during the day when senior doctors are on duty. “Most critical patients who get admitted at night die after three-four hours. We feel the presence of senior doctors might reduce the mortality rate. We have tried this for couple of days and things have improved,” the chief minister  said. Roping in senior doctors to guide the juniors had become inevitable since the situation has turned alarming with over 4,000 cases and over 50 deaths being reported daily on an average since mid-April. Last ten days saw over 700 deaths. Till Saturday, there were 44,008 active cases with 5,347 cases and 63 deaths reported during the day. In another step, the government has also decided to monitor critical care services being extended in Covid wards in medical colleges through CCTVs, especially between 11pm and 7am. There have been complaints from certain quarters that facilities at hospitals are not up to the desired level. “Deploying senior doctors and monitoring activities in wards through CCTV are part of measures to step up our services,” a doctor said. In a tweet, Sarma said: “Managing critical patients at odd hours is always a challenge. At 2.30 am, I visited GMCH to see how #Covid patients are being given treatment in Emergency Ward at night. I was satisfied with the arrangements. I reiterate my gratitude to doctors & nursing staff for their help.” As part of containment measures to check the spread of the virus, the government has also extended curfew hours from 12pm to 5am in urban areas from Sunday. Shops and business establishments will close at 11am. “Restrictions have helped bring down cases. Next one week will be crucial,” Sarma said. Sunday also saw Sarma hold a video conference with deputy commissioners and SPs on the Covid situation during which he directed the DCS to regularly visit the district civil hospitals and ensure proper critical care for patients even late in the night. He has also directed the DCs to “entrust” one ADC in each district with responsibility of vaccine centers besides  directing the SPs to enforce stringent restrictions to contain the pandemic while ensuring containment zone regulations. “ In this time of distress we must give best service with a humane heart,” the chief minister said. With active cases rising in tea gardens, the government has also barred home isolation of infected garden workers since they pose of risk to their family members, according to health minister Keshab Mahanta. Those who do not need require hospitalisation will be put up at Covid care centres where they will be provided free of cost medicines and food, Mahanta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
