18-05-2021||North East||Manipur Police re-arrest activist, journalist for post on dead BJP leader||The Manipur Police has re- arrested journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem and activist Erendro Leichombam under the National Security Act (NSA) after they had been granted bail for an earlier arrest for their allegedly derisive social media posts on state BJP chief S Tikendra Singh, following his demise due to Covid-19 last week, police sources said. The duo, both in their 40s, was arrested on Thursday after they took to Facebook to extend their condolences, while also writing that cow dung or cow urine was no cure for Covid-19, in two separate posts. Several BJP leaders have in the past made claims about the efficacy of cow urine as a preventive to various diseases including Covid-19. The saffron party's state vice-president Usham Deban Singh and general secretary P Premananda Meetei filed a complaint against Wangkhem and Leichombam, after which the police picked them up from their residences here. They were granted bail on Monday, but the government subsequently invoked the NSA to re-arrest them. Th Kirankumar, the district magistrate of Imphal West, said in his order that the two might "resume activities which are prejudicial to the security of the state and maintenance of public order on being released on bail". Earlier, too, Wankhem, associated with news portal 'Frontline Manipur', had faced arrest on two occasions for his criticism of the BJP. Erendro is the convenor of political outfit Peoples' Resurgence and Justice Alliance (PRJA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
18-05-2021||North East||IIM Shillong placement drive witnesses rise in annual average salary||The placement drive at the Indian Institute of Management, Shillong, for its 2019-21 batch has witnessed a rise in the annual average salary as well as the number of participating recruiting companies despite the “challenging” Covid-hit job market in the country. The only IIM in the Northeast said that it has “successfully” completed the final placements for the 2019-21 batch, with the highest cost to company (CTC) of Rs 32 lakh per annum (LPA) and an average CTC of Rs 19.17 lakh. Comparatively the highest CTC for the 2018-2020 batch was Rs 48.50 lakh, more than what was fetched this year but the annual average CTC was Rs 18.76 lakh, 2.19 per cent less than this year’s average CTC. On the salary front, the top 20 per cent and the top 50 per cent of the 2019-21 batch secured an average CTC of Rs 26.67 lakh per annum and Rs 23.22 lakh, respectively. Last year, the corresponding figures were Rs 29.17 lakh and Rs 23.38 lakh. The final placements, which concluded on May 15, also witnessed participation from 64 recruiters, four more than last year. Hemango Kishore Dutta, a senior IIM official, told The Telegraph that they were happy with the placement drive. “Though the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has hit the job market, we have achieved an increase in average CTC package by 2.18 per cent. We have also observed that major brands made similar offers as in the past but the recruitment processes lasted longer and were more rigorous. Most offers came from tech companies,” Dutta said. Though the recruiters were from various domains such as consulting and strategy, finance, general management, human resources, IT and analytics, operations and sales and marketing, consulting and strategy was the most sought-after domain this year, with 27 per cent of the total offers, followed by sales and marketing, with 25 per cent. Human resources and operations emerged as the highest paying domain, with an average CTC of Rs 20.38 lakh. Altogether 190 students participated in the placement drive and received job offers, an official said. Prominent recruiters included Amazon, Capgemini, CASHe, EY, ICICI Bank, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, Indegene, InMobi, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Mahindra & Mahindra, Nomura Investment Bank, Tech Mahindra, Tres Vista, Optum (UnitedHealth Group), Xiaomi and Yes Bank. The first-time recruiters were Accolite Digital, Adobe, Amagi Media Labs, Atomberg, Boston Consulting Group, CarWale, CollegeDunia, Feedback Infra, Genpact, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Infosys Consulting, iQuanti, Mswipe, MTX Group, MuSigma, Octro, Paytm, RapidOps, SBI Capital Markets, SysCloud, Tata AIA Life Insurance Company, Thoucentric, Trafigura, Unicommerce, William O’Neil India, V2 Retail, Zinnov and ZS Associates, among others. The B-school, which commenced operations in 2008, also witnessed participation from international recruiters such as the Landmark Group, offering roles in the sales and marketing domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
