22-05-2021||North East||ULFA(I) militants release ONGC employee kidnapped a month ago||Kidnapped ONGC employee Ritul Saikia was released by ULFA(I) militants on Saturday morning in Myanmar near its border with India's Nagaland, police said. Saikia, kidnapped on April 21, was released near the border in Longwa village of Mon district in Nagaland after 31 days, a top official at Assam Police headquarters told PTI. He was released around 7 am on the Myanmar side and he walked around 40 minutes to cross to the Indian side, the Additional DGP-ranked official said. "Saikia has been taken to the Mon police station by the Army and Nagaland Police. A team of the Assam Police is also present there and doing the formalities to bring him back home by today evening," he added. The released ONGC staffer looks hale and hearty, a medical check-up will be done before dropping him at his home in Titabar of Jorhat district in Assam, the senior police official said. Following the release, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that he hopes an era of peace and development is firmly established in the state with the cooperation of one and all. "Heartily welcome release of Ritul Saikia, ONGC employee abducted by ULFA, early today! Grateful to Honble UHM @AmitShah (Union Home Minister Amit Shah) for constant guidance. Hope an era of peace & development is firmly established in state with cooperation of one and all. Pray to Almighty for His Blessings," Sarma tweeted. Three employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) were on April 21 kidnapped by ULFA(I) militants from the Lakwa oilfield in Sivasagar district along the Assam-Nagaland border. Two employees, Mohini Mohan Gogoi and Alakesh Saikia, were rescued on April 24 after an encounter near the India- Myanmar border in the Mon district of Nagaland, while the search for Saikia was on. Hours after Sarma visited Saikia's home on May 18 and assured his wife and parents about the government's effort to bring him back, ULFA(I) chief Paresh Barua confirmed the custody of the kidnapped person. On May 20, Sarma in a press conference appealed to Barua to release the kidnapped ONGC employee and said the Assam government will pressure the oil companies to invest more for the progress of the state. While the official press conference was underway, Barua made phone calls to local TV channels and announced to release Saikia in less than seven days. In the calls, Barua praised Sarma and said Assam never had such a "dynamic" chief minister for decades. The chief minister, on the other side, welcomed the three-month unilateral ceasefire declared by the ULFA(I) and urged Barua to come to the discussion table. In the first week of April, two employees of the Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure were released by ULFA(I) after three-and-half months of their kidnap on December 21 last year. The duo was kidnapped from Kumchaikha hydrocarbon drilling site in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh with a demand for a ransom of Rs 20 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-05-2021||North East||Covid: Himanta appeals to turn vaccination drive into 'jan andolan'||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday appealed to the people to turn the ongoing vaccination drive into a “jan andolan (mass movement)” by donating voluntarily to either the chief minister’s relief fund or the Assam Arogya Nidhi to buy vaccines. Sarma said he is seeking donations from the public not because the state is facing a financial crunch but because he wants to involve the public in the ongoing fight against the pandemic. “We will do what is required of us. But we also want people to feel the joy of saving a life by donating for vaccination. For example, we can donate on our birthday or to our family members. I appeal to the people to donate freely and turn this vaccination drive into a jan andolan. Donation can be for one person or more. We want the people of the state to feel the joy of saving a life,” Sarma said on the eve of the first Assembly session under his chief ministership from Friday. He also announced that the donation amount received by the Assam Arogya Nidhi in the first Covid-19 wave — Rs 119 crore — will also be used to buy vaccines. “Today, I have released Rs 50 crore from the CM Relief Fund to the Arogya Nidhi to buy vaccines. We have also received donations from Reliance Industries, from school, college and universities towards buying vaccines,” he said. Newly appointed health minister Keshab Mahanta reiterated Sarma’s appeal for donation on Friday. The Covid situation has turned alarming in the second wave with the state government imposing near-lockdown safety measures and banning inter-district travel from Friday. Curfew was extended last week from noon to 5am. Soaring Covid-19 cases and deaths have increased the need for an expedited vaccination drive. Till Thursday, Assam registered fresh 6,573 Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 51,819, while 74 succumbed to the virus. The positivity rate, however, has dropped to 6.40 per cent. According to Sarma, the cost of vaccinating those aged 45 years and above (above 1 crore) will be borne by the central government, while the state government will bear the cost of inoculating those aged between 18 and 44 years (over 1.2 crore). Assam’s population is about 3.2 crore. “We will need Rs 600-800 crore to vaccinate 1 crore people. We will need Rs 600-Rs 800 to vaccinate one person. We will continue to vaccinate the masses whether we get donations or not. Our aim is to turn the drive into a jan andolan. We want it to be a collective fight. Everything has to be voluntary,” Sarma said, adding his government does not want to burden the Covid-hit people by raising taxes to fight the pandemic. Admitting there is a shortage of vaccines and things will normalise by June-July, the chief minister said it will take at least 10 to 12 months to inoculate the entire state population. “So far we have vaccinated 35 lakh people. There were no takers in March and April but there is a rush now. The government is planning to expedite the process by vaccinating 1 lakh people a day,” he said. Sarma also appealed to Ulfa (Independent) to release the abducted ONGC employee R. Saikia, to which the outfit’s chief Paresh Barua has responded positively. Saikia, sources said, could be released any moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-05-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi accuses police personnel and a magistrate of manhandling him||Activist Akhil Gogoi, who was elected as an MLA from Sivasagar in Upper Assam while in jail, on Friday accused police personnel and a magistrate of manhandling him while escorting him for the oath-taking ceremony of new legislators in the Assembly. Akhil, who is president of the regional party Raijor Dal, has been in judicial custody since December 12, 2019, on charges of sedition and inciting violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Assam. Akhil, the only MLA from his party, was brought to the Assembly from Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, where he has been undergoing treatment, in a city bus escorted by over 20 policemen and a magistrate. Akhil, known for his fearlessness and blunt talk, raised a hue and cry in front of the reporters covering the Assembly proceedings. “This is nothing but an insult to the Assamese community. Is this how you treat an elected MLA? If this is the treatment meted out to an MLA, I shudder to think of the plight of the common man,” Akhil thundered at the conduct of the policemen and officials escorting him. Gogoi said the police personnel “pushed” him around when they should have maintained social distancing to check the spread of coronavirus. “The government can kill me but can’t silence my voice. I will continue to raise my voice for the people of Assam,” said the peasant leader, who many believe could emerge the face of the Opposition given his knack to flag issues and make headlines. Senior Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi lent his support to Akhil. “I condemn the manner in which an MLA (Akhil) was treated. He was treated like an accused, not as an elected representative. It is very unfortunate,” Kurmi said. In fact, Kurmi, a four-time MLA from the tea community, created a bit of flutter of his own by revealing to reporters that he wants to lead the state Congress unit. “Since the PCC president has resigned, I want the high command to consider my candidature given my seniority and the lone MLA from my community,” he said, refusing the post of secretary, Assam Congress Legislature Party, because this post should go to newcomers. The tea community has drifted towards the BJP since 2014. PCC insiders said the party leadership should consider rebuilding the party in the tea belt and Kurmi appears the best bet. “The old guard from the tea community has outlived its utility. The successive defeats since 2014 proves this fact. In fact, Kurmi should be made the CLP leader and Debabrata Saikia the PCC president if the high command really wants to strengthen the party before the next polls,” one of them said. Saikia was on Thursday evening re-elected the CLP leader. Being the single largest party in the Opposition, he will also be leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Biswajit Daimary of the United People’s Party Liberal, a BJP ally, was elected as the new Speaker on Friday. The Assembly session will conclude on May 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
22-05-2021||North East||Row over assault-accused cop post in lower Assam||Women’s organisations have expressed concern over the posting of an IPS officer, chargesheeted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, as the superintendent of police of Chirang district in lower Assam. The officer has been accused of sexually assaulting the 13-year-old daughter of a colleague when he was the police chief of Karbi Anglong district where the alleged incident took place in December 2019. On May 14, the 2012-batch IPS officer Gaurav Upadhyay was transferred and posted as Chirang SP in the “interest of public service” by the state home department. He was earlier holding the post of assistant inspector-general (law and order) in Guwahati. In a letter to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also holds the home department, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, has expressed “serious concern” over a police officer, accused under the Pocso Act for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor, being “given responsibility” of maintaining law and order of an Assam district. Upadhyay was one of the officers transferred in the first police reshuffle carried out by the BJP-led coalition government in the state after winning a second straight term on May 2. “The state of women’s security in Assam has only worsened in the last few years with the state topping the list of crimes against women in India... The people of Assam expect and deserve a safe and secure Assam while this action proves otherwise. I request you to immediately suspend the appointment order of the said officer and ensure justice through a speedy investigation and trial,” Sushmita wrote. The alleged sexual assault took place on December 31, 2019, at the official residence of Upadhyay at Diphu when he was the Karbi Anglong SP. He had invited the complainant to attend the birthday party of his son. The complainant had attended the party with young children. The case of sexual assault was registered on January 3, 2020, at the all-women’s police station in Panbazar here. The CID probed the case and filed the chargesheet on March 31, 2021, under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage modesty) and 354A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant provisions of the Pocso Act. Sushmita’s letter also said: “The chargesheet, accessed by news portals, mentions that ‘sufficient evidence’ had been found to prove that the accused ‘committed aggravated sexual assault’ as defined under section 9(a)(iv) and section 9(c) of the Pocso Act, 2012, as well as offences under Sections 354 and 354 A of IPC.” The North East Network (NEN), a Guwahati-based women’s rights organisation, said any transfer, promotion and training of officers charged with alleged cases of sexual harassment on women and children should be kept on hold till they are proven innocent by the judiciary. Anurita Pathak, state coordinator of the NEN, told The Telegraph: “In the context of issues of safety assured by the law enforcement agencies, it becomes all the more important to have leadership bereft of such charges. This restores and strengthens people’s faith in the formal systems. Moreover, court and even departmental inquires on cases of sexual harassment must be expedited in a time-bound manner. This again will only reaffirm the departments’ commitment to gender justice.” Reacting to the development, a senior police official said the chargesheet has already been filed in the case and the matter was now sub judice. The Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights too said the matter was sub judice but the organisation had done whatever was required of it when the case was brought to its notice. When contacted, the 39-year-old Upadhyay, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, also refused to comment on the case since it is sub judice except that he has “full faith” in the judiciary. However, police sources familiar with the proceedings, said Upadhyay has received “absolute bail” in the case from Gauhati High Court, which has also “dropped” a few sections slapped against him but did not elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
