23-05-2021||North East||BJP govt in Assam signals intention for complete ban on transport of cattle outside state||The re-elected BJP government in Assam has signalled its intention for a complete ban on transport of cattle outside the state, moving swiftly to enforce a pet project and giving Bengal a clue to what it might have escaped by turning its back on the saffron juggernaut. “I am happy to inform you that my government plans to introduce the Cow Protection Bill in the next Assembly session. The proposed bill envisages the imposition of a complete ban on the transport of cattle outside the state. We will adopt a zero tolerance policy and enforce stringent punishment for the offenders,” governor Jagdish Mukhi said in his address to the first session of the 15th Legislative Assembly on Saturday afternoon. The transport of cattle outside Assam or within the state is not banned now, provided a set of prescribed documents is in order. Neither did the BJP manifesto, known as the vision document for the Assembly election, mention any such plan. Cattle restrictions are a sensitive issue in the Northeast where consumption of beef is not illegal. In northern India, during the height of a wave of lynchings by cow vigilantes, alleged illegal transport of cattle was often cited as the flashpoint. In Bengal, both intra-state and interstate transport is legal on the production of some documents. In the BJP’s election manifesto for Bengal, the party had vowed to crack down on “all kinds of cattle smuggling activities”, which was seen as an oblique reference to the illegal trade with buyers in Bangladesh. But the Assam overdrive makes it clear how blurred the domestic and cross-border distinctions can be. Assam cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika told The Telegraph that the idea behind banning the transport was to check cattle smuggling to Bangladesh. “It runs into crores of rupees. Our government especially wants to check cattle smuggling through this proposed bill,” he said. However, sources familiar with the cattle trade in Assam said the transportation mostly took place within the Northeast and very rarely outside the region. “Cattle mostly come from outside — for agriculture, dairy farming and for consumption,” a source said. An official pointed out that cattle meant for smuggling came from elsewhere in India, not from the Northeast. “Cattle are mostly smuggled from Assam to Bangladesh from Karimganj and Dhubri districts bordering Bangladesh. Assam serves as transit. These cattle mostly enter Assam illegally from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana, and are headed to Bangladesh,” the official said. In March, Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai had said that over 4.76 lakh cattle meant for smuggling to Bangladesh were seized in the past five years by the BSF. An Assam veterinary department official said cattle can be transported outside the state or brought into the state by furnishing a health certificate issued by a veterinary doctor plus a transit certificate issued by the assistant director or an officer above him. Cow slaughter is not banned in Assam. “It is regulated under the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950. To slaughter, a cattle head needs to be over 14 years of age or has become unproductive.  You will, however, need a certificate from a veterinary officer stating that the cattle is fit for slaughter,”  an  official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
23-05-2021||North East||Ulfa releases ONGC engineer, peace hope rises ||The Ulfa (Independent) on Saturday released an ONGC engineer they had kidnapped 31 days ago and also gave him Rs 2,000 in cash, responding to an appeal from Assam’s new chief minister and raising hopes for the peace process to begin. Junior engineer Ritul Saikia and two of his colleagues had been kidnapped by Ulfa (I) cadres on the night of April 21 from the ONGC rig site at Lakwa in Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district. His colleagues M.M. Gogoi and Alokesh Saikia had been rescued in a joint operation involving the army, the Assam Rifles, Nagaland police and village guards from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland on April 24. Ritul Saikia, 38, a resident of Borholla in Golaghat district, was released at Longwa village in Mon district around 7am on Saturday. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who took charge on May 10, had on Thursday appealed to Ulfa (I) head Paresh Barua to release Saikia and said “repeated attacks” on the oil sector would break the economic backbone of Assam. Saikia was handed over to a joint team of the Assam Rifles and Assam and Nagaland police. He was first brought to Sonari in Assam around 3pm where he interacted with the media around 4.30pm in the presence of security personnel. He was then escorted home with his family members to Borholla, about 100km from Sonari. Saikia said he was happy to be back with his family but extremely tired, having had to walk for three days. He said Ulfa (I) cadres had handed him Rs 2,000 at the time of his release. Sources tracking the Ulfa (I), formed in 1979 to secure an independent Assam, said things were “moving very fast for the better” since Sarma’s appeal. Ulfa (I) chief Baruah has also announced a three-month unilateral ceasefire in view of the alarming Covid-19 situation. Soon after Sarma’s appeal, Baruah had assured that Saikia would soon be released and praised the new chief minister for the way he was trying to engage with the Ulfa (I) for lasting peace. Sarma tweeted on Saturday: “Heartily welcome release of Ritul Saikia, ONGC employee abducted by Ulfa, early today! Grateful to Hon’ble UHM @AmitShah for constant guidance. Hope an era of peace & development is firmly established in state with cooperation of one and all….” Assam director-general of police B.J. Mahanta thanked the state government and the chief minister. “We (the police) had no role except getting him safely home,” Mahanta said. Sarma had met Saikia’s family twice in the past 10 days, assuring to secure his release. Governor Jagdish Mukhi said in the Assembly on Saturday: “I urge the Ulfa (I) leadership to set in motion the process to device the ground rules during the period of ceasefire. I am sure that during this important ceasefire period of three months, if agreed ground rules are adhered to and the situation remains violence-free, it will create a conducive environment for a structured discussion….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
