26-05-2021||North East||Assam House  plea for talks with Ulfa-I||The Assam Assembly on Monday saw both the ruling and Opposition members pushing for talks between the government and the proscribed Ulfa (Independent) for lasting peace in the state. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma led the way by requesting Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief Paresh Barua to come forward for talks. “I want to thank Paresh Barua dangoriya for releasing (ONGC employee) Ritul Saikia on our request. It has ushered in a ray of hope among us for peace... Peace is the right of the people of Assam. I want to tell Paresh Barua that a peaceful Assam is the right of the next generation. We have to respect that right and both the government and Ulfa should come forward with an open mind and create a path for talks,” Sarma said. Participating in the debate on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address to the Assembly on Monday, Sarma further said: “(Narendra) Modi dangoriya and Amit Shah dangoriya are sincere about ushering in permanent peace in Assam. Let the release of Ritul Saikia pave the way for permanent peace.” Earlier, leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia too appealed for steps to begin peace talks with the outfit formed in 1979 to secure a sovereign Assam. “The release of Ritul Saikia has instilled hope of an imminent solution to the Ulfa problem. I urge the government to initiate unconditional dialogue with the Ulfa along the lines of the negotiations between the NSCN and the Centre,” he said. Saikia bringing in the NSCN (I-M) angle has a lot to do with past attempts to bring the Ulfa to the talks table failing because of conditions imposed by both sides. While Ulfa stresses on discussing its demand for sovereignty, the Centre insists on talks within the constitutional framework. The peace process between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) too had failed to take off because the outfit did not want to drop its sovereignty demand and the Centre’s stance on talks within the Constitution. Finally, the peace process started in 1997. Both sides are close to clinching a final solution. However, things seemed to be moving in a positive direction in relation to Ulfa (I) since the new BJP-led government took charge in Assam on May 10 with Sarma appealing to the outfit to come forward for talks as violence would not solve any problem. Barua responded by announcing a three-month unilateral ceasefire and then releasing Ritul after a month in captivity. The government welcomed the ceasefire but said that without stated ground rules it may not yield the desired results. Those tracking the Ulfa movement said Monday’s appeal by Sarma and Saikia could lead to a breakthrough sooner than later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
26-05-2021||North East||Punjab police arrests YouTuber for 'a racist and anti-India' video||Punjab police on Tuesday arrested a YouTuber Paras Singh from Ludhiana following an FIR filed by Arunachal Pradesh MLA Ninong Ering for “a racist and anti-India” video Singh had uploaded on Sunday triggering widespread anger and condemnation. Besides Congress MLA Ering, FIRs were also filed by the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union, Adi Bane Kebang Youth Wing and All Arunachal Pradesh Youth Organization against Singh on Monday for his comments that Ering did “not” look like an Indian and that Arunachal Pradesh was “part” of China. Arunachal police has booked him under Sections 124A (sedition)/153A and 505(2) of the IPC which deal with promoting enmity between groups. The YouTuber from Punjab had uploaded the video in reaction to Ering’s May 21 letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting a ban on Battlegrounds Mobile India, said to be a new avatar of the popular mobile game PUBG banned last year, on security ground. Union minister of state for sports and MP from Arunachal Pradesh Kiren Rijiju took to his twitter handle to break the news of Singh’s arrest on Tuesday and that he has spoken to Ludhiana police commissioner to ensure Singh’s “urgent” transit remand since it was a “inter-state remand” so that he can be taken to Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh DGP R.P. Upadhyaya told The Telegraph that a three-member police team, led by inspector Techi Vijay, left for Chandigarh on Tuesday with a non-bailable warrant against Singh. “He has been booked for sedition and spreading racial hatred. In the video, Singh is heard saying ‘from his (Ering) face he does not look like an Indian, looks like a Chinese’, and pointing to a map of Arunachal says  it is ‘part’ of China,” Upadhyaya said. China claims the frontier state to be a part of southern Tibet, a claim dismissed by India which sees Arunachal as its integral and inalienable part. The video has evoked strong reaction. Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu said the video aimed at “inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of Arunachal Pradesh”. Deputy chief minister Chowna Mein, condemning the “racist and arrogant act” of Singh, tweeted, “We are proud to be a State in the Union of India where even in the interior most we greet each other with a ‘Jai Hind’ and primary school children even in the border villages sing ‘Saare Jahaan se Achha, Hindustan Hamara’ with pride.” In another tweet, he said, “To doubt our nationality because of how we look is a problem most of us from the North East of India face regularly in the mainland. What we look like, how we dress, what we eat and how we live makes us no less Indian.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
