28-05-2021||North East||Covid: Manipur app to monitor home isolation patients ||Manipur on Thursday launched a mobile app for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 patients in home isolation. The objective of the Manipur Home Isolation Management (MHIM) mobile application was to avail real-time health data of patients in home isolation for prompt response. This is the second mobile app to have been launched by Singh since May 15 — an app for home delivery of fresh vegetables at the doorsteps of people during Covid-induced curfew. Of the 7,243 active cases in the state till Wednesday, 4,789 were in home isolation. Seven of the 16 districts are bearing the burnt of the second wave of Covid-19 infection. The MHIM app, launched by chief minister N. Biren Singh at the CM Secretariat in Imphal, will help patients upload their health status including pulse rate, SPo2, body temperature and blood pressure among others using fixed parameters at fixed intervals as set by the health department from time to time. “The data uploaded will then be divided as critical and normal depending on the parameters and conditions set by the health department. “ In case of detection of any critical data, the system will raise an alarm to the monitoring team so that immediate attention and precautionary measures can be provided to the patients preventing further health deterioration,” a government statement said. Developed by Pentabyte Technologies LLP, the app can be downloaded from Google Play Store by Android users. Principal secretary (health) V. Vumlunmang told The Telegraph that the app was developed within a week by a local vendor. He said the government has provided those in home isolation with Oximeter, masks, gloves and medicines. Only asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms were allowed home isolation. “Anybody turning critical are promptly referred to Covid care centres or designated hospitals. “ Covid teams would take update of patients’ condition on phone dial. A patient and their family members would be tested once the home isolation period ends,” an official said, adding that the vaccination of 18+ will be rolled out from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
