30-05-2021||North East||Congress attacks BJP over Assam tea garden wage||Opposition Congress on Saturday said the BJP-led Assam government’s flip-flop on the tea garden workers’ daily wage hike issue is a lesson for everyone who voted for the party in the recently concluded Assembly election. “The interim hike of Rs 38 a day is a harsh gift by the ruling BJP-led government for the tea workers who are paying a heavy price for their one mistake of voting the BJP, for believing in the party’s false promises. The Congress feels this is a lesson for others as well – to check what has been promised and what is being delivered,” Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said. The Assam government had on Friday decided to go for an interim daily wage hike of Rs 38 for tea garden workers after cancelling the earlier hike of Rs 50 notified on February 23. The decision was taken so that garden workers “do not suffer” because of the court case challenging the earlier hike. The hike will push the daily wage of a worker to Rs 205 from Rs 167 in Brahmaputra Valley and to  Rs 183 from the existing Rs 145 in Barak Valley. Currently, workers are getting Rs 167 and Rs 145 a day respectively. “They promised a daily wage Rs 351 before the 2016 Assembly polls but what have tea garden workers got till now? An interim hike of Rs 30 in 2018 and another Rs 50 just before the 2021 polls, which was on Friday scaled down to Rs 38. We don’t see any workers’ welfare here? ” Sharma pointed out. Soon after the decision on the interim hike, first-time chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said that tea garden workers’ “welfare remains a committed priority” for his government. “For the remaining Rs 12, we shall initiate consultation with stakeholders and certain that an acceptable solution will be found out soon,” the chief minister had tweeted. Sharma said the Congress had promised to hike the daily wage to Rs 365 within six hours of coming to power. It was one of five-pre-poll commitments of the party. To counter the Congress, the BJP had announced the Rs 50 interim hike. “A tea worker is now having to suffer a loss of Rs 160 a day going by what the Congress had committed. The annual loss per worker per year is Rs 4,500 a month. All because they believed in the BJP, their promises,” Sharma said. Sharma said the handling of the daily wage issue by the BJP should be a lesson for all. The Congress had religiously flagged BJP’s unfulfilled promises during campaigning for the three-phase polls, which the BJP-led alliance won comprehensively for a second straight term at Dispur. The “unfulfilled” promises by the BJP included deportation of all illegal Bangladeshis by May 2014, implementing the 1985 Assam Accord, according Scheduled Tribes status to six communities of the state within a year, updating the National Register of Citizens, dredging of the Brahmaputra to ease flood and erosion problems, revival of the two paper mills and jobs for 25 lakh youths. The Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association is also unhappy with the Rs 38 interim hike. ATTSA president Dhiraj Gowala told The Telegraph,  “This decision is very unfortunate. There is big question mark over why the state government went on the back foot on its own promise as well as the tea garden workers representatives such as the ACMS and Bharat Chah Mazdoor Sangha.” He went on to add: “ The daily wage issue is a long pending demand. Why should only the workers suffer? But the ATTSA will never agree with this decision and continue its demand and democratic agitations till the minimum wage is fixed as per prevailing rates,” Gowala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
30-05-2021||North East||Bid to defuse inter-state tension between Assam and Nagaland ||Assam and Nagaland have decided to hold a high level meeting as soon as possible to defuse the tension in the Mokokchung-Jorhat inter-state border triggered by the alleged firing from the Nagaland side on senior Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi when he had visited the area on Thursday afternoon. Sitting Mariani MLA Kurmi on Friday sat on an indefinite fast near the border seeking removal of all structures set up on Assam’s territory in the Desoi Valley Reserve Forest where he had gone to check reports of fresh encroachment by people from Nagaland. Though Kurmi withdrew the fast by Friday night following an assurance from the administration to look into the alleged encroachment, he filed an FIR seeking a probe into the firing incident. “I had gone to the border area with around 45 people, including media persons, five police personnel and locals, on an inspection following reports of fresh encroachment. I saw around six-seven houses there. We were fired upon from the Nagaland side. Some 1,000 hectares have been encroached upon in the area. My demand is that they be evicted within 48 hours and status quo be maintained,” Kurmi said. Both Nagaland and Assam claim the area as their own. Assam and Nagaland share a 512km inter-state border and border disputes between the states are over six-decades old. Besides Jorhat, Sivasagar, Charaideo, Golaghat and Karbi Anglong districts of Assam share border with Nagaland. Mokokchung DC L. Jamir told The Telegraph on Friday evening that both states would hold a high level meeting to de-escalate the situation. He said the first shot was fired by the Assam group, which went to Vikuto village that Assam claimed had been set up on its territory. “The village was officially recognised in 2012. A 60-70 member group, including policemen, from Assam, had visited the site on Thursday afternoon and started firing. Our villagers got scared and fired in the air in self-defence,” the senior official said. He said senior officials were camping in the area to ensure the situation did not escalate. “Senior officials are camping in the area to defuse the situation, which is under control. We have deployed a section of the IRB in the area. We are all for peaceful coexistence,” Jamir said. Assam’s special DGP G.P. Singh, after a stock-taking visit to the border on the direction of Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, tweeted that Nagaland representatives have been “strongly advised to disengage from the area immediately”. Singh held an “on site discussion” at Desoi Valley Reserve Forest attended by Jorhat DC and SP, DIG (Jorhat range), IG border (Nagaland), SP and magistrates from Mokokchung, Nagaland. “It was decided to hold a DC/SP level meeting within three days followed immediately by an IG border-level meeting. DFOs of Jorhat and Mokokchung would carry out joint visits in the area to ensure that there’s no encroachment,” he said. Singh said he had extensive discussion on “encroachment by people of Nagaland” in the reserve forest  in “violation of protocols and court orders”. “Inputs about encroachment and violation of Hon Supreme Court orders would be reported to Government of Assam formally by DC and SP immediately to enable GoA to take lawful recourse. Hopeful of quick resolution of situation. @DGPAssamPolice@DGP_Nagaland,” Singh tweeted. Dibyajyoti Saikia, a local youth, claimed that the reserve forest had been mostly encroached upon. “Why should only Assam maintain status quo? The forest is almost cleaned,” he said. Efforts have been made by the Centre and the states since 1971 to resolve the disputes but to no avail. Assam moved the Supreme Court in 1988. The apex court has asked both the states to maintain status quo in the disputed border areas till a final solution is found. Nagaland was carved out of Assam and formed on December 1, 1963. While Assam insists on going by the constitutional boundary decided in 1963, Nagaland wants to go by the historical boundary — the area under undivided Naga Hills till 1826 when the British annexed Assam. According to Assam’s revenue department, people from Nagaland have encroached upon over 19,819.62 hectares. Assam also has border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. Last year, there were several border flare-ups with Mizoram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
