01-05-2021||India||Serum chief flies to UK to escape 'threats' from CMs, corporates biggies||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, Serum Institute of India flew to Britain just before it banned travellers from India and says he plans an extended stay because of the threats he’s getting from chief ministers and other powerful Indian corporate leaders. “Threats is an understatement,” Poonawalla told the Times, London, adding, “The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them.” Poonawalla, who recently received Y-level Government security, told The Times that the calls begin cordially but the tone usually changed dramatically when he told the callers that it wouldn’t be possible to jump the queue. “They are saying if you don’t give us the vaccine it’s not going to be good….It’s not foul language. It’s the tone. It’s the implication of what they might do if I don’t comply. It’s taking control. It’s coming over and basically surrounding the place and not letting us do anything unless we give in to their demands.” Poonawalla told The Times that he planned to stay on in Britain for some time, “because I don’t want to go back to that situation.” He added: “Everything falls on my shoulders but I can’t do it alone…I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do.” In March British newspapers reported that Poonawalla was paying $69,000 a week to rent a sprawling 25,000sq ft house in London’s smart Mayfair district. The newspapers said it was the most expensive rental deal in London in recent times.  His wife and children travelled to Britain some time ago. In remarks that are bound to cause alarm, Poonawalla also said his trip to Britain is partly business and that he may look at starting vaccine production outside India. He refused to comment further on his plans but added, “There’s going to be an announcement soon.” Lord Udny-Lister, a former senior aide of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited the Serum Institute in March. Poonawalla admits he thought the worst might be over in December as the number of Covid cases began to fall. “I thought, ‘We’ve done out bit. We’d struggled through 2020 to get everything ready. I thought I could put my feet up and take a vacation, but it’s been the exact opposite. It’s been chaotic.” Poonawalla refused to comment on the Kumbh Mela and election rallies and added that, “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad.” He says: “We are really gasping for all the help we can get.” He insisted that he supported India’s ban on exports even though it has put him in a fix and left him unable to keep commitments. Serum Institute has hired around a thousand new employees and is operating its facilities for 20 hours daily, the maximum possible, he says. Also, Serum Institute will be starting production of Novavax next week but it will only be possible to produce a third of what was originally planned because of a US ban on vaccine-related products.  He also insisted that Serum Institute’s vaccines were the cheapest in the world. Poonawalla said that when the pandemic began he was proud to be the man of the moment and felt, “a proud sense and feeling that people were depending on me, and I was doing my best to save and protect the nation and the world.” However, he’s now very disheartened by the criticism he’s getting. He says, the company is not being, “appreciated and supported, but instead, “we are being vilified and blamed”. The Serum Institute chief said he hoped that when the history books are being written he will be judged more favourably. “That’s what calms me down,” he says, adding: “We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended by another week, says Kejriwal||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in the national capital by another week. "Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week," Kejriwal said in a tweet. The ongoing lockdown that was scheduled to conclude at 5 am on May 3, now stands extended for another week. This is the second extension of the lockdown in the national capital amid a huge surge of Covid-19 cases. Kejriwal had announced the first lockdown in Delhi last Sunday. Coronavirus still continues to wreak havoc in the city. Public opinion is that lockdowns should increase. So it is being extended for one week,” he had said while imposing it. Delhi on Friday recorded 375 deaths due to the coronavirus and 27,047 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent, a bulletin issued by the health department said. The cumulative case count stands at 11,49,333, of which over 10.33 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 16,147, the bulletin said. Delhi's active caseload is now nearly one lakh - more than double the previous high of around 44,000 recorded in mid-November last year, NDTV said in a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||First consignment of Sputnik V lands in India from Russia||India on Saturday received the first consignment of Russia's SputnikV Covid-19 vaccine, according to the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). The CBIC in a tweet said that Hyderabad customs expedited the clearance of the Covid-19 vaccine imported from Russia. "Hyderabad Customs, @cgstcushyd facilitated expeditious clearance of #SputnikV Vaccine imported from Russia, the CBIC tweeted. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet said: "Appropriate timely response @cgstcushyd. Need of the hour." The government last month allowed the emergency use of imported vaccines to curb the spread of coronavirus infection and waived customs duty on their imports. It has also allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccinations beginning May 1. On August 11, 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, dubbed as SputnikV. Following that, in September, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of SputnikV, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr. Reddy's Laboratories has already received approval from the Indian drug regulator for the restricted emergency use of the Covid-19 vaccine SputnikV. Currently, India is administering two Covid vaccines. While the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, the indigenously developed Covaxin is being manufactured by Bharat Biotech. India reported a record over 4.01 lakh new Covid infections and 3,523 deaths on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||12 patients die gasping for air as Delhi hospital runs out of oxygen||Twelve patients at Delhi's Batra Hospital, including a senior doctor, died on Saturday and at least two other hospitals reported precipitous drops in their oxygen stocks, as the Delhi High Court stepped in and directed the Centre to provide the city with oxygen today itself or face contempt.

With the death of the 12 patients in the south Delhi hospital -- which announced at 12.30 pm that it had run out of oxygen -- the number of hospital patients who have lost their lives in the deepening crisis in the last eight days has gone up to 57.

Water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said and asked the Centre to supply 490 metric tonnes of allocated oxygen to the national capital on Saturday itself or face contempt.

Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi? the bench asked when the Centre's counsel said the oxygen crisis is also before the Supreme Court, which will make its order public on Saturday.

It also declined the Centre's request to defer the order - till Monday or for half-an-hour. The tough-talking court said the Centre has made an allocation of 490 metric tonnes of oxygen to Delhi and stated, You fulfill it .

As the court heard the case, time was running out for other critically ill patients in Batra and other places.

Batra first reported the deaths of eight, and revised the toll to 12 by evening.

We are trying to resuscitate five other critical patients, Dr S C L Gupta, medical director of Batra hospital, told PTI earlier in the day.

Six of the patients who died were admitted to the ICU, he said. Among those who died due to the lack of oxygen were Dr R K Himthani, head of the gastroenterology department who had been admitted to the hospital for the last 15-20 days.

He said the government had sent out SOS messages about oxygen shortage on Saturday. The hospital had informed authorities about lack of oxygen in the morning when only 2,500 litres left.

Then, at around 12.30 pm, hospital authorities claimed they had run out of oxygen. The tanker arrived at 1.35 pm.

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed his anguish on Twitter.

Describing the news as very painful, he said, " Their lives could have been saved -- by giving them oxygen on time. Delhi should get its quota of oxygen. Can''t see our people dying like this.

Delhi, he said in his Twitter post in Hindi, needs 976 tonnes of oxygen but received only 312 tonnes on Friday. How will Delhi breathe in such less oxygen?" he asked following news of the deaths in Batra.

On April 23, 25 sickest patients died at the Ganga Ram hospital. The next day, 20 died at Jaipur Golden Hospital as the frantic hunt for oxygen continued while COVID-19 cases surged.

Just over a week later, the crisis played out in other healthcare facilities in the national capital with hospitals flagging their dwindling stocks.

Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj stopped taking admissions due to oxygen shortage. The hospital has four hours of oxygen left, sources told PTI on Saturday afternoon. According to the Delhi Corona app, the hospital has 106 Covid patients.

Sehgal Neo hospital in Meera Bagh also sent out an SOS message on Twitter about its dwindling oxygen stocks.

"We request urgent assistance in getting #SOSoxygen. We are running out of our backup supply, and have been waiting for a supply since early morning. We have 90 patients on O2 & 13 in ICU," the hospital said in a tweet around 12.40 pm.

On Friday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said not for a single day has Delhi been able to receive the allocated quantity of 490 MT of oxygen.

On Friday, the city recorded 375 deaths due to COVID-19 and 27,047 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent. It was the ninth consecutive day of Delhi recording 300 coronavirus-related deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||Eight Covid patients die at Delhi's Batra hospital due to oxygen shortage||Eight COVID-19 patients, including the HOD of gastroenterology department, of Batra Hospital in Delhi died due to oxygen shortage, officials said on Saturday. "We are trying to revive five other critical patients," said Dr S C L Gupta. Hospitals across the national capital had sent out SOS messages last week about depleting supplies of oxygen. The Delhi government has maintained that the city is not getting its allocated quantity of the life-saving gas. The hospital told the Delhi High Court that it was out of oxygen supply for about an hour. Batra Hospital told the court, "We didn't get oxygen on time. We ran out of oxygen at 12 noon. We got oxygen at 1:35 pm. We have lost lives, including one of our own doctors," reported India Today. "We ran our operation for almost an hour without oxygen supply," said Dr. SCL Gupta, Medical Director of Batra Hospital. In an SOS message, the Batra Hospital had earlier said, "Oxygen will last for another 10 minutes. 326 patients are admitted at this hospital." Later Delhi minister Raghav Chaddha said, "Our SOS cryogenic tanker carrying Liquid Medical Oxygen is reaching Batra Hospital within 5 minutes. Their regular supplier of oxygen has defaulted yet again due to alleged 'lack of oxygen supplies' and is being pulled up." The oxygen was later supplied to the hospital, but the hospital said by that time 8 patients had already died. Meanwhile, the NKS Super Specialty Hospital also told the high court that they are in a dire situation. 'Hospitals should set up oxygen plants' The Delhi High Court on Saturday said hospitals should learn from their experiences regarding oxygen scarcity during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and set up plants for generating the life-saving gas. The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said for commercial considerations, some hospitals reduce capital expenditures on things like oxygen plants which are essential in a hospital, especially the big ones. "Oxygen plants are essential. It is irresponsible not to have them," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||Centre to HC: states, UTs told about Covid norms in March||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that it had in March this year asked all state governments and union territories (UTs) to ensure compliance of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour in all gatherings. The submission by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has come in response to a plea seeking to debar campaigners and candidates from campaigning in the assembly elections for repeatedly violating the mandatory guidelines, including wearing of masks, issued by the Election Commission (EC) and the Centre in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition by Vikram Singh, the former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and also the chairman of think tank Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC), has contended that despite the orders and guidelines of the Centre and EC, "election campaigning is going on in full swing, without any regard to the COVID-19 regulations". In the affidavit filed through central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, the MHA has said that it has always made provisions in the guidelines issued to states and UTs under the Disaster Management Act 2005 for enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and strict adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs). The ministry has also said that it issued the 'Guidelines for Effective Control of COVID-19' on March 23 emphasizing that states and UTs "should strictly enforce test-track-treat protocol, COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and prescribed SOPs on various activities like opening of schools, hotels, eateries, shopping malls, gyms, etc." "Further, states and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation may impose local restrictions at district/sub-district and cities/ward level," the ministry has said. Singh, represented by advocate Virag Gupta, had told the court that while announcing the elections, the EC in its notification mandated that every person shall wear a face mask during every election related activity , but the same were "flouted with impunity" by the political parties, their leaders and campaigners during the rallies, public meetings and roadshows conducted during the ongoing pandemic. He, subsequently, moved two more applications, through advocate Gaurav Pathak, seeking directions to the EC to take action like imposing penalty and lodging FIRs against "star campaigners" and leaders of all political parties for allegedly violating COVID-19 norms during the assembly polls in West Bengal and for ensuring that masks are worn mandatorily by everyone involved in poll campaigns during the ongoing elections in various states and union territories. Singh, in one of his applications, has also sought directions to the EC to widely publicise the guidelines issued by it and the ministry. The "unhindered and uncared-for all out campaigning" has resulted in the rise in coronavirus cases in that state where the positivity rate has gone up from 5 per cent to 24 per cent, Singh has contended in one of his applications. It has further contended that "the lackadaisical action of ECI in implementing its own guidelines and non-cancellation of permission given for roadshows and rallies is evident from the number of campaigners catching COVID". "The Election Commission had guidelines for conduct of general elections/bye-elections during COVID-19 published in August 2020, but failed to implement the same," Singh has said and sought prosecution of ECI officials "who failed to enforce their own mandatory COVID guidelines". The assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry were held in various phases. The polls started on March 27 and concluded on April 29. Singh has claimed that there is an "indirect discrimination" against the general public as fines are collected from them for violating COVID-19 norms, but no action is taken against politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||Evolve political consensus on a national policy to tackle Covid, Sonia urges Centre||With India battling a Covid-19 surge, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday urged the Centre to evolve a political consensus on a national policy to tackle the spread of the pandemic. In a video message, she said it is time for the central and state governments to wake up and fulfil their duties. Gandhi also said Covid-19 jabs should be provided free of cost to all citizens and sought compulsory licensing to ramp up vaccine production to speed up the country's inoculation drive. "I urge the central government to evolve a national policy to deal with the Covid crisis in the country and bring about a political consensus over it," the Congress president said. "This is the time for central and state governments to wake up and fulfil their duties," she said. Gandhi urged the Centre to deposit Rs 6,000 in the account of every poor family to help them tide over the current crisis. She also called for increasing testing and checking the black marketing of essential life-saving drugs. Gandhi said the Congress party will stand with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic and appealed to all Indians to unite in these testing times. India's daily Covid-19 cases reached a record high of 4,01,993 on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 1,91,64,969. The death toll climbed to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
01-05-2021||India||India crosses 4-Lakh mark in daily Covid cases||India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases stood at 32,68,710, accounting for 17.06 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.84 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,56,84,406, while the case fatality rate stands 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 28,83,37,385 samples have been tested up to April 30, of which 19,45,299 were done on Friday. The 3,523 new fatalities include 828 from Maharashtra, 375 from Delhi, 332 from Uttar Pradesh, 269 from Chhattisgarh, 217 from Karnataka, 173 from Gujarat, 155 from Rajasthan, 122 from Uttarakhand and 120 from Jharkhand, 113 each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,11,853 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 68,813 from Maharashtra, 16,147 from Delhi ,15,523 from Karnataka, 14,046 from Tamil Nadu, 12,570 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,344 from West Bengal, 9,022 from Punjab and 8,581 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||18 patients die as fire engulfs Covid hospital at Gujarat's Bharuch||At least 18 coronavirus patients died after a fire broke out at a hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch in the early hours on Saturday. Gut-wrenching visuals of the tragedy showed remains of some patients roasted alive on stretchers and beds. There were around 50 other patients at the four- storeyed Welfare Hospital when the fire broke out in the COVID-19 ward at 1 am. They were rescued by locals and firefighters, an official said. "As per information at 6.30 am, the death toll in the tragedy stood at 18. Immediately after the fire, we had confirmation of 12 deaths," a police official told PTI. There were chaotic scenes outside the Welfare Hospital as authorities tried to calm the agitated kin of the victims. Inside the hospital, the scenes were even grimmer as gut-wrenching visuals of the tragedy showed remains of some patients roasted alive on stretchers and beds. The 12 patients in the COVID-19 ward died due to the fire and resultant smoke, Bharuch SP Rajendrasinh Chudasama said. It is not clear if the remaining six also died in the Welfare hospital or while being shifted to other hospitals. "The fire was so intense that the ICU ward was almost burnt to the ground. All the equipment inside, including the ventilators and the fridge used to store the medicines and also the beds, were turned to ashes," an eyewitness said. Some patients were charred beyond recognition and relatives found it difficult to identify their bodies. The blaring of the ambulances and fire tenders could be heard in the hospital's vicinity as dozens of such vehicles rushed to the hospital to douse the fire and also to shift the patients who survived the blaze to other hospitals. People were seen desperately trying to find out if their near and dear ones were safe inside the hospital. Along with the rescue teams, many residents were seen volunteering to rescue the patients and shift them to ambulances so that they could be taken to nearby hospitals. Several vehicles of the district police also reached the spot to ensure that law and order remain under control. A relative of a patient who was shifted to the civil hospital here was seen searching for the case file in a heap of waste dumped after the fire. She said she was looking for the case file so that doctors at the hospital where he was taken could begin his treatment immediately. The COVID-19 designated hospital is situated on the Bharuch-Jambusar highway, around 190 km from the state capital Ahmedabad and is being run by a trust.  The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said. The fire was controlled within an hour and around 50 patients were rescued by locals as well as firefighters, a fire official said. They were shifted to nearby hospitals, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||No, the State has failed. We all have failed: Delhi HC||Reuters picture shows a woman who fainted at a crematorium in New Delhi after seeing the body of a relative who died of Covid on Friday. Anguish was voiced in Delhi High Court, too, during the day when a bench was informed of the death of another Covid patient whose family had been pleading for an ICU bed for the past three days. While the proceedings were on, a relative of the patient had urged the court to request the authorities to arrange for an ICU bed as the vital signs of the patient, who was in an emergency ward, were low. However, within minutes, the relative informed the bench that the patient had died, adding: “I have failed, my brother-in-law has expired, so no more efforts are needed.” The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli then said: “No, the State has failed. We all have failed. We have been informed that the patient has expired. We may record our complete helplessness in the situation. We can only say that the State has failed to protect the right to life of people guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.” The bench, which has been conducting proceedings on the oxygen crisis, heard the matter for over four hours. Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Patna on Friday. Singh, a 1985 batch IAS officer, was to retire in August.  He was appointed chief secretary in February this year. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who received the news during a cabinet meeting, condoled his death||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Covid: SC echoes Manmohan Singh's recommendation||April 18, 2021: I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence. Manmohan Singh in a letter to Narendra Modi April 19, 2021: History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation’ and valuable advice was followed by your (Congress) leaders as well in such extraordinary times. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in a tweet after writing to Singh April 30, 2021: Has the central government considered exercising its power under Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency? The Supreme Court to the Modi government May 10, 2021: The next date of hearing when the Modi government is expected to come up with an answer. Prime Minister Modi has yet to extend the courtesy of personally replying to his predecessor who had graciously suggested multiple steps to mitigate the Covid crisis. Instead, Modi deployed his health minister to send Manmohan an acid-dripping and discourteous letter. Twelve days later and a day after Manmohan went home from hospital after recovering from Covid, the highest court of the land mooted exactly what the former Prime Minister had recommended in his letter but was ignored by his successor. Section 92 of the Patents Act, cited by the Supreme Court on Friday, empowers the Centre to grant compulsory licences “in respect of any patent in force in circumstances of national emergency or in circumstances of extreme urgency or in case of public non-commercial use”. Such licences will allow more companies to make the Covid vaccines. Right now, only two companies — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — are making the Covid vaccines in India. A bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and including Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat asked several other questions vexing the country but not yet answered by Modi. Some of the questions asked and observations made by the court: ⚫ What happens to the marginalised people and SC/ST population living in far flung areas? Should they be left to the mercy of private vaccine manufacturers and hospitals? ⚫ The government must think of providing free vaccination to all citizens. ⚫ Manufacturers are charging you (the Centre) Rs 150 but Rs 300 or Rs 400 from states. Why should we as a nation pay this? The (total) price difference becomes Rs 30,000 crore to Rs 40,000 crore. Even when we have paid for this. We are not directing it but you should look into it. ⚫ It cannot be left to the private manufacturers to decide how much quantity be given to which state. Instead, the Centre should procure all the vaccines and give it to the states as it is done in national immunisation programmes. ⚫ For vaccination, how will the Centre ensure registration of those who are illiterate or don’t have access to the Internet, considering registration on CoWIN app is mandatory? ⚫ How do the Centre and the states intend to vaccinate workers at the cremation and burial grounds? ⚫ Has the finance ministry made any previous grants/ sanctions to Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India (the makers of the Covaxin and Covishield vaccines, respectively) in the past, like the current infusion of Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 3,000 crore, respectively? If yes, what is the exact break-up, as against the total cost of development and production of the two vaccines? On Friday, former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Grateful that the Supreme Court has raised the two issues that the Congress had first raised 15 days ago: vaccine prices and compulsory licensing to manufacture vaccines. The government brushed aside the Congress. The PM did not even acknowledge the letter of the former PM. The health minister was rude in addition to being incompetent. Let us see how the government responds to the Supreme Court’s concerns and questions.” This sentiment was expressed forcefully during the course of a conversation the Congress arranged with two key functionaries who steered India’s vaccination drives in the eighties and the nineties — Sam Pitroda and Jairam Ramesh. Ramesh said: “The political atmosphere wasn’t toxic at that time. In spite of brute majority, the then Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, gave a clear instruction to reach out to the Opposition, to make everybody part of the mission. Now the Opposition is talking about constructive cooperation but the government does petty politics.” “Manmohan Singh wrote a sober letter to the Prime Minister giving specific suggestions and got a vituperative, abusive reply from the health minister (Harsh Vardhan). To Singh’s two-page letter, there was a three-and-a-half page personalised attack on him.” “There is no alternative to compulsory licensing, more companies have to be involved in the production of vaccines. Israel invoked compulsory licensing. We have to commandeer all our national resources and vaccinate the maximum number of people. This is not the time to think of market economics — we are dealing with the question of life and death. Even the US government funded the Moderna vaccine,” Ramesh added. Pitroda weighed in: “There is a need for consolidation of all production facilities. It is a national emergency. Not a private-government question. We have to run it like a national emergency production line. Allow the private players their profit but fix a national price. Not one price for the Centre, one for the states, another for private. “Create a national team of domain experts who should brief daily at a fixed time. The government has no credibility; people have no confidence in their talk. Let the talking be done by professionals. You can’t tell the people to wear mask and hold massive rallies.” Pitroda, who led several technology missions launched during Rajiv’s time, said: “I can’t imagine our country is going through an oxygen shortage. The government had one year to plan but they gave false promises, wrong narrative. We talk of becoming a superpower and we have become a laughing stock in the world. “The people of India have put up with a lot of nonsense. But they will rise, no other country has the kind of resilience that India has. The government should apologise and start doing the right things.” Ramesh said during the talk moderated by Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera that BJP chief J.P. Nadda had sought his advice some time ago. Ramesh said he told Nadda: “You need a credible viewpoint. Put together a group and let them take the nation into confidence. When Dr Anthony Fauci (chief medical adviser to the US government) talks, people listen. Dr Randeep Guleria (the AIIMS director) is a credible voice. Get some outstanding professionals to brief the nation.” Ramesh contended that the collapse of the State was the most worrying aspect of the crisis and lamented: “The State machinery is in denial. You can’t respond unless you recognise what is the problem. I hope the international ridicule that this government has been subjected to over the past three-four days may trigger some meaningful action. “It is awful; I feel ashamed to see how India is being described. I feel diminished, angry. Hope the system will respond to the criticism instead of sending rebuttals.” Expressing outrage at the claim that nothing had been done in the 70 years before Narendra Modi took charge, Ramesh and Pitroda recalled what a gigantic task had been achieved by India in immunising its children and pregnant women and how it was achieved through a consensual approach, with openness and conversation. They said the government had reached out to the scientific community, which had been divided on oral vaccination for polio, 70-80 experts had been called for discussion and civil society and NGOs were also involved. “There was no communication system, no social media. Our team travelled to every state to give briefings to the chief ministers, elected representatives and local media. The Opposition-ruled states were far more cooperative because we didn’t treat them as enemies,” Ramesh said. “We hear slogans like ‘Make in India’ today but it took lots of planning and efforts to make India the centre of vaccines and pharmaceutical productions. Beginning with the Indian Patents Act, 1970, setting up of the Technology Development Board and the Department of Biotechnology were the triggers for the creation of a slew of Indian companies.” Recalling that India inoculated 25 million children every year with four vaccines, Ramesh said: “We didn’t have cold chain equipment. There were mishaps and deaths. But we didn’t hush up. We listened to complaints, admitted mistakes and opened the exercise for social and external audit (by Unicef). We didn’t shut doors on critics.” Additional reporting by our legal correspondent and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Covid: Retired professor refuses jab to protest Modi's photo on certificate||A 74-year-old retired professor has refused to take the Covid vaccine in protest at the vaccination certificates carrying Narendra Modi’s picture and has urged Opposition chief ministers to remove the Prime Minister’s image before issuing the slips. Chamanlal, former dean of the school of languages at Panjab University, Chandigarh, said that when the British colonialists issued their demeaning compensation certificates to the families of the Jallianwala Bagh victims, even they had not put their pictures on the documents. Another retired professor, Kancha Ilaiah, demanded that all the vaccination certificates be reissued without Modi’s picture and termed the current practice “unhealthy in a democracy”. Only in poll-bound states such as Bengal do the certificates issued at the vaccination centres not carry Modi’s picture. Chamanlal wrote an open letter to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday, urging him and his counterparts in other Opposition-ruled states to have Modi’s picture deleted before the certificates are issued at state government facilities. “In no other country of the world the vaccination certificate, if any, carries the photograph of any political leader, even (those) in power,” the letter says. “At best the certificate might be carrying the signature (of the) medical officer of the area.... In India, we the hapless citizens are condemned to get the photograph of a leader... whose policies and criminal negligence is the cause of the worst explosion of corona(virus) deaths, especially in the second wave of Covid-19.” Chamanlal suggested in an interview to The Telegraph that the government’s wilful neglect of preparedness made the human cost of the Covid resurgence comparable to British Indian forces’ massacre of hundreds of unarmed protesters at Jallianwala Bagh in 1919. To add to the culpability, he alleged, the Prime Minister was indulging in a sort of “self-glorification that was not seen even among the British colonialists”. Chamanlal cited the certificates that the then lieutenant governor of Punjab, Michael O’Dwyer, had issued to the Jallianwala Bagh victims’ families mentioning the payment of compensation of a few hundred rupees. “But O’Dwyer did not use his picture on the certificate. What is happening now is worse than what the British did in 1919,” Chamanlal told this newspaper. Ilaiah, who retired from the Maulana Azad National Urdu University, Hyderabad, said the display of the Prime Minister’s picture on the vaccination certificates had set a bad precedent. “If some university or the other now decides to use his picture on the degrees it awards to students, will that be allowed?” he said. “This is unhealthy in a democracy. The vaccine certificates should be issued again without Modi’s picture.” Chamanlal has written to Amarinder that the Punjab farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders against the new farm laws are being harassed and the Centre is trying to evict them citing the Covid crisis. He has written that the Punjab government, which supports the farmers’ agitation, should protest the Centre’s actions and remove Modi’s picture while printing the vaccination certificates. He told this newspaper that the Punjab government had written back to him saying the chief minister had forwarded his letter to the state health secretary. Chamanlal alleged that while Modi did not prepare the country for the second wave of the pandemic, he built “comforts and facilities for himself”, alluding to allegations that the government had bought aeroplanes amid the pandemic for the Prime Minister’s travel. “All Opposition and society cried to spend this money on health services, building hospitals, infrastructure, but of no avail. Prime Minister was concerned more about building comforts and facilities for himself at the cost of people’s lives,” his letter says. It accuses the Modi government of weakening public universities and autonomous institutions and mentions the crackdown on JNU in 2016 over the alleged chanting of “anti-national” slogans. It castigates Modi for taking unilateral decisions that have caused great suffering to the public, such as the demonetisation, and questions the opacity around the PM CARES Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Covid: States wary as jumbo  jab phase begins from May 1||India’s expanded Covid-19 vaccination campaign, open for all adults from May 1, is set to start with a lower-than-expected momentum amid limited vaccine supplies and appeals from some states asking people not to rush for jabs. Authorities in at least five states — Delhi, Karnataka, Goa, Punjab and Rajasthan — have said they are still awaiting stocks to enable them to start vaccinating the 18-to-45-year population group. And private hospitals have said they’re waiting to gain access to the online vaccination system. On Friday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh cited a shortage of vaccines to defer vaccinations for the 18-to-45-year group and announced that vaccinations at private health facilities would remain suspended on Saturday. Amarinder said that since all private health facilities had to return their unused vaccines to the Centre by Friday evening, these facilities would have no vaccines to administer on Saturday even for the 45-and-above age group. Punjab, Amarinder said, had received 200,000 doses but that was not sufficient to meet even two days’ requirement for inoculating those aged 45 or more. Punjab had on April 26 ordered 3 million doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, but was told that “the availability of the vaccine will be known only in four weeks’ time”, the chief minister’s office said in a media statement. In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government would soon announce the vaccination campaign but added that it was still waiting for more vaccine doses to arrive. He asked citizens not to queue at vaccination centres before the announcement. “I request everyone not to rush,” Kejriwal said. “The vaccines have not reached us yet. But we’re in touch with the companies and hope the vaccines will be delivered in a day or two.” Kejriwal said Delhi had ordered 6.7 million doses each of Covishield and Covaxin for the next three months. “We are trying our best to vaccinate the population in Delhi within the next three months,” Kejriwal said. “We have formulated a plan, and even the infrastructure needed for this is in place. Now it will depend on the two companies how swiftly they give us the vaccines.” Experts and industry executives have predicted vaccine shortages in the early weeks of the campaign’s new phase, which has more than doubled the number of potential beneficiaries from around 350 million to nearly 900 million without immediate provisions for the extra doses. India’s current production capacity is between 80 million and 90 million doses a month: 70 million doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute and 10 to 20 million doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Both companies have announced plans to ramp up production in the coming weeks. In the new phase, private hospitals can directly procure doses from the manufacturers. An Apollo Hospitals executive said the group had already procured doses to support vaccination in seven cities — Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Kochi, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai — for about a week. “But we need to have access to the online platform to link our hospitals with those who have registered themselves for the vaccines,” the executive told The Telegraph over the phone from Hyderabad. The vaccine makers have said their priorities are the central government, which will get 50 per cent of the doses, then the state governments and finally the private hospitals, which will get only small proportions of the doses manufactured. Covishield carries a price tag of Rs 300 for state governments and Rs 600 for private hospitals, while Covaxin will cost Rs 400 for state governments and Rs 1,200 for private hospitals. The Apollo executive said the cost for the beneficiaries would follow government guidelines. Uttar Pradesh said on Friday that it would start vaccinating the 18-to-45 group from May 1 in districts with more than 9,000 active Covid-19 cases. These include Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Allahabad, Varanasi, Meerut and Bareilly, the state government said on Twitter. Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said on Friday that the state would use an available 300,000 extra doses to start vaccinating the 35-to-45-year group from May 1 in nine cities. He said Rajasthan needed around 70 million doses to cover the 18-to-45 age group and had ordered 30 million doses, but was told by the Serum Institute on Thursday that it would for now receive 300,000 doses. “Given our large population of beneficiaries, how do we distribute 300,000 doses? Who do we give doses to and who do we leave out?” Sharma said. In Karnataka, health minister K. Sudhakar urged people between 18 and 45 through a television channel to “refrain from going to hospitals on Saturday, thinking they’ll get vaccines”, as the state is waiting for extra doses to arrive. The nationwide vaccination campaign has administered more than 154 million doses since its start on January 16, first for healthcare and frontline workers, then for everyone aged 60 or older, and then for those aged 45 or above. Only about 28 million people (or 2 per cent of India’s population) have received the two vaccine doses required for protection. The health ministry had initially resisted calls from the states and sections of doctors to open up the campaign for all adults, citing India’s limited supply of vaccines. Health experts believe the decision to allow the state governments and private hospitals to vaccinate the 18-to-45 group reflects a plan to shift the responsibility of vaccinating all adults to the states and the private sector without making provisions for the doses required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||SC warns of contempt if authorities target citizens for complaining on social media ||The Supreme Court on Friday warned police and other authorities of contempt proceedings if they target citizens for complaining on social media about shortages, such as those of beds and hospitals. Airing of grievances represents “a free flow of information” that would help tackle the Covid-19 crisis more effectively, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said. The court’s warning comes amid reports that relatives of several Covid patients who appealed for oxygen or medicines on social media have been arrested in Uttar Pradesh on the charge of spreading “rumours” or “panic” following a crackdown ordered by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “We don’t want any clampdown on information. We will treat it as a contempt of court if such grievances are considered for action,” Justice Chandrachud said. “So, let a strong message go out to all the states and the DGPs (directors-general of police) of the states not to take action against citizens for social media posts about shortage of beds, Covid care centres and hospitals, etc, during the pandemic. Clampdown of information is contrary to basic precepts.” Conviction for contempt can lead to a jail term of up to six months. The court’s oral warning came during daylong, inconclusive suo motu proceedings relating to the Covid situation. “I flag this issue at the outset. We want to make it very clear that if citizens communicate their grievance on social media and Internet then it cannot be said it’s wrong information,” Justice Chandrachud told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre, and senior counsel appearing for various states. “If any action is taken against such posts by citizens in distress, we will haul the police up for contempt.” Mehta said he agreed fully. “By (allowing) free flow of information on the deficiencies and needs during this humanitarian crisis on social media platforms, we will be in a better position to tackle the problem,” the bench said. Justice Chandrachud recalled that a free flow of information had helped the government tackle the 1970 famine effectively while a clampdown during the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic had poor consequences. On Wednesday, a public interest plea was moved in Allahabad High Court seeking protection from arrest for relatives of Covid patients who appeal for oxygen or medicines on social media and for members of citizens’ volunteer groups who help them. Petitioner Saket Gokhale, a social activist, alleged that such people were being arrested in Uttar Pradesh and that family members of Covid patients were now afraid to seek help. Adityanath, who denies any oxygen or medicine shortage in Uttar Pradesh, has ordered a crackdown on hospitals and individuals who “spread panic”. Citizens across the country have taken to social media to complain about the shortages afflicting the treatment of Covid patients and the authorities’ shoddy pandemic management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Covid: Experts warn against oxygen DIY attempts||Doctors and scientists in India are warning of the dire hazards of trying to make medical oxygen at home as the country faces a shortage of the gas in its Covid-19 battle and various videos and tips on DIY methods do the rounds on social media. Google Trends data showed searches for the phrase “how to make oxygen at home” peaked on April 25 as the crisis worsened, while YouTube videos detailing such processes have amassed hundreds of thousands of views. Videos showing how to make oxygen through methods like electrolysis are increasing in number. “There is a scientifically proven method to produce medical oxygen through concentrators. Any other means to try making the gas at home involves many risks like chances of toxic gases being inhaled and explosions,” A Ravikumar, secretary of the Indian Medical Association for the southern state of Tamil Nadu, told Reuters. Tarun Bhatnagar, a scientist at the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai, called the attempts to make homemade oxygen “untested and unreliable methods”. “Such an approach could even be deleterious if it leads to delays in seeking appropriate healthcare,” he told Reuters. With India scrambling to find supplies of oxygen, many hospitals are turning away patients for lack of the gas. That has led to purported coronavirus cures circulating on social media, such as videos showing men inhaling steam from pressure cookers or kettles “to kill Covid infection”. The health ministry was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Soli Sorabjee passes away after a battle with Covid-19||Soli Sorabjee, eminent jurist who had been the country’s highest law officer and appeared in cases that had far-reaching impact on the Constitution, governance and free speech, passed away on Friday morning after a battle with Covid-19. He was 91. Sorabjee is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons. Sorabjee had till recently been active not only in the legal arena but also used to pen articles for media houses on complicated legal matters. Sorabjee had been attorney-general of India from 1989 to 1990 and thereafter from 1998 to 2004. Then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee  often consulted him on important national issues. Born in a Parsi family in 1930, Sorabjee, who began legal practice in 1953, had appeared in several important cases such as the Keshavananda Bharati matter in which a 13-judge bench had enunciated the “basic structure” theory of the Constitution that forbade changes to the important facets of the document. He had also been part of the S.R. Bommai case in which it was laid down that the imposition of President’s rule is subject to judicial review and a state cannot be brought under central rule unless “…a situation has arisen where the government of a state cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution”. Sorabjee had in 2015 forcefully argued before the Supreme Court against Section 66A of the IT Act on behalf of law student Shreya Singhal and succeeded in getting the impugned provision quashed as unconstitutional. Before being struck down, Section 66A provided unbridled powers to the authorities to arrest any person for posting on the Internet any material deemed offensive, indecent or inconvenient or could cause public disorder. A person convicted under the Act was liable for imprisonment for up to three years. Sorabjee had been appointed by the United Nations as a special rapporteur for Nigeria in 1997 to report on the human rights situation in the country and later became a member and then the chairman of the UN Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights from 1998 to 2004. He was also a member of the United Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. Sorabjee had served as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague from 2000 to 2006. Sorabjee had led India’s fight at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) when Pakistan sought compensation from India for downing of their naval patrol aircraft Atlantic in 1999 just after the Kargil war. The ICJ at the Hague had ruled in India’s favour after taking note of submissions of Sorabjee and dismissed Pakistan’s claim for compensation, saying it had no jurisdiction over the matter. Sorabjee had also appeared and worked for the Citizen’s Justice Committee, which represented anti-Sikh riots victims. Sorabjee was known to be soft, suave and humble. He was always accessible to the media and was forthcoming with his views on various issues. Even if a rookie reporter with no prior acquaintance sought his views on the corridors of courts, Sorabjee always obliged with his trademark smile. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana expressed deep sadness over Sorabjee’s death and recalled that he had made immeasurable contributions in enriching the global jurisprudence of human rights and fundamental rights during his nearly 68-year-long career. “The matters that he had argued before the courts and the judgments that he could secure; the books, essays, papers of international repute and the newspaper articles that he had authored; the independent opinions he could tender to the government in his capacity as the attorney-general — they all stand testimony to his deep commitment to democratic values. He not only lived up to the mandate of attorney-general as enshrined in the Constitution, but also raised the bar in the discharge of his constitutional duties,” Justice Ramana said. CJI Ramana said that being a champion of “freedom of press”, Sorabjee had effectively used the media as a platform to elucidate the nuances of complicated legal issues on an almost daily basis till recently, literally giving lessons in law to millions of common people who otherwise could not have followed what was happening in the judicial world. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka defers jabs for people between 18 and 44 years of age ||Karnataka’s BJP government has deferred Covid-19 vaccination for the people between 18 and 44 years of age until fresh stocks of the doses arrive. Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar on Friday said those who become eligible for Covid-19 jabs on May 1 would have to wait for some time since the state did not have sufficient stock of vaccines. “We are requesting people of Karnataka, especially those above 18 and up to 44 years, to refrain from going to hospitals thinking that you may be vaccinated tomorrow (Saturday). We will definitely update them after receiving confirmation from the Serum Institute of India (SII),” he said. Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa had on Thursday confirmed the severe shortage of vaccines in the state. “The Centre has so far given us 99.40 lakh doses of vaccine and 93.50 lakh have already been administered. Only 5.9 lakh doses are available,” he had said. The vaccine shortage has affected a large number of senior citizens in the state who are waiting for their second dose. Even large private hospitals, which were set to launch the vaccination programme for 18 to 44-year-olds from May 1, have postponed the plan. “We are in for huge confusion since we have no idea how many vials we will get,” Dr K.Harish, associate dean of Ramaiah Medical College Hospital told The Telegraph on Friday. “The supply has been very erratic for over 15 days. Although, we have set aside a large area for vaccination that can handle 1,500-2,000 people a day, we have been getting only very few vials. On some days we get 20, on others we get nothing putting us on the receiving end as people shout at us,” Harish said. The hospital has been talking to both the Serum Institute of India that makes Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in India, and Bharat Biotech that makes Covaxin. “Ideally we need at least 50 vials of each of these vaccines since there is a huge demand from those coming in for their second dose,” he said. While private hospitals hitherto charged Rs 250 for a dose, Harish said the changed vaccine regime would escalate the prices. “We just want to break even and not make any profits on vaccines. But still we have to add Rs 100 to Rs 200 for deploying manpower and syringes,” he said, alluding to how the SII and Bharat Biotech have priced the vaccines at Rs 600 and Rs 1,200 per dose, respectively, for private players. While the price for the Centre is Rs 150 for a dose, that for the state governments is Rs 300 for Covishield and Rs 400 for Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Rape accused lynched in Balasore district||A rape accused was lynched by an irate mob at Singhakhunta in Balasore district on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Basant Singh. Police sources said Singh, 35, had sneaked into the house of a married woman in the village when none of the family members were present. Finding her alone Singh allegedly raped her. The screams of the woman brought local people rushing to the spot. They nabbed the accused who was tied to a tree and thrashed severely. He died on the spot. Police have lodged a case and begun an inquiry. “Investigation is on. We have arrested the husband of the victim,” police inspector Madhusmita Mohanty told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Woman immolates self over Covid fear in Puri district||An octogenarian woman, who was suffering from fever for a few days, allegedly committed suicide by setting herself on fire at a village in Puri district of Odisha on Thursday night. Police suspect she took the extreme step as she feared that she had been infected by the coronavirus and hence was being shunned by the people in her neighbourhood. The incident occurred at Jainabad village under Nimapara Notified Area Council (NAC) in Puri district. Inspector Upendra Pradhan of Nimapara police station told The Telegraph: “The woman was living alone and was under severe mental stress. All her three daughters are married and there was nobody to take care of her in the village. She had a fever for the past few days. Perhaps she thought that she had been infected with Covid-19 and took the extreme step.” However, her test report revealed she was Covid-negative. “Based on the test report, we carried out her cremation,” the officer said. Local sources said after Shailabala ran a temperature, local people and relatives, who used to give her food and look after her, started to keep distance from her. No one came to look after her, they said. “After she got a fever she had got her Covid test done and was living in self-isolation. But people continued to keep distance from her. She was unable to arrange two meals a day. She had been under severe mental trauma and finally took the extreme step,” said local journalist Purna Chandra Mohapatra. Local MLA and minister Samir Ranjan Dash told this newspaper: “People had thought she was a Covid-19 patient. That’s the reason they started avoiding her. Out of mental trauma, she took the extreme step. People are living in a state of panic in semi-urban and rural areas.” The number of deaths due to the disease has been increasing in the state. Odisha witnessed 14 deaths due to the virus on Friday, the highest number of daily casualties in the state. The total number of deaths in the state has touched 2,043. The total number of Covid-19 cases surged to 444,194 with 8,681 fresh cases registered during the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has stepped up efforts to enforce Covid guidelines. It has closed down a number of institutions and even the Nandankanan zoo for visitors till May 15. The Cuttack district administration on Friday announced that all the shops will be shut after 2pm in Cuttack city and in Puri shops will be closed after 6pm. A number of major markets in capital Bhubaneswar have already been closed down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Covid: ‘Grotesque’ game amid mass pyres||As plumes of smoke rose from cremation grounds, where bodies were arriving faster than they could be burned, teams of professional cricket players squared off under the lights of a cavernous stadium named after India’s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. The jarring scenes unfolded on Thursday in Ahmedabad, the capital of Modi’s home state of Gujarat and a hot spot in India’s spiralling coronavirus outbreak. For decades, cricket and its charismatic stars have commanded exalted status in India, where the once-genteel colonial game attracts its biggest and most passionate fan base. Now, public anger is growing at the sport’s marquee international product, the Indian Premier League (IPL), which is playing matches in a “bio-bubble” without spectators that has drawn criticism for diverting resources from the country’s wider coronavirus fight. “There is a lack of empathy for dead bodies lying in crematoriums surrounding your stadium,” said Rahul Verma, a lawyer and die-hard cricket fan who said he had been a devoted follower of the cricket league since it started in 2008. “This game, a gentleman’s game, never was so grotesque.” As the US Air Force delivered the first shipments of oxygen cylinders, test kits, masks and other emergency supplies promised to India by the Joe Biden administration, several Indian states said they could not fulfil the government’s directive to expand vaccinations to all adults beginning on Saturday because they lacked vaccine doses. As hospitals face shortages of intensive-care beds, relatives of the sick broadcast desperate pleas on social media for oxygen, medicine and other scarce supplies, many Indians say they do not know if they are infected with the coronavirus because overwhelmed labs have stopped processing tests. But one group that seems unaffected is the wealthy and powerful Board of Control for Cricket in India, the regulatory body that oversees the IPL. The board has kept ambulances fitted with mobile intensive-care beds on standby outside stadiums where matches are being played in case a player falls sick. It is testing players every two days and has created a travel bubble between stadiums in the six states hosting matches, including dedicated airport check-in counters for cricketers. Meanwhile, some Indians say they cannot cross state lines to find hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Hemang Amin, the board’s chief operating officer, said in a letter released this week that the health and safety of players and staff members were “of paramount importance,” and added that the matches were a needed distraction in a difficult time. But the league’s safety protocols have only highlighted the gap between its star players and the rest of the country. “That ambulance outside that stadium could have saved at least 10 lives a day,” said Ishan Singh, a cricket fan in Delhi. “These players are thieves. Given a chance, they will rob wood from the cremations and sell it in the market.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
