02-05-2021||India||CPI(M) fights many battles to retain power in Kerala||If the April 6 assembly poll was an existential struggle for the opposition Congress- led UDF, it was nothing but a chance to script history for the ruling CPI(M)-headed LDF by bucking the over four decade-old trend of alternate front governments in Kerala. When the Left Democratic Front seems to be heading for a clean sweep and retaining power, it scripteda new chapter in the state's electoral history and also ensured that the red flag will continue to fly in the lone Left bastion in the country. Though the official announcement is yet to be made, the CPI(M) led LDF has won 70 seats of the total of 140 and is reportedly leading in 29, while Congress-headed UDF opposition has won 32 and is leading in nine. The BJP led NDA has drawn a blank. Befitting reply to Congress and BJP “The historic victory is a recognition of the LDF government’s five year rule. It is the people’s victory. They trusted us and we trusted them. The election was a big political fight forus,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in Kannur. With this victory, the CPI(M) has given a befitting reply to the opposition Congress and BJP, which had often taken swipes at the Marxist party, saying it would be wiped out from Kerala like in West Bengal and Tripura after the assembly election and Pinarayi Vijayan would be the country's last Communist Chief Minister. Through the results, the marxist party decimated its traditional political rival-- Congress from the state’s political landscape. Not a cakewalk victory But the victory was not handed over on a silver platter to the Left party and the front as they had to battle a plethora of negative factors, including corruption charges, the arrest of its former party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son in money laundering and narcotic case and the incumbency factor to get the desired results. The gold smuggling case, relating to the seizure of about 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from a diplomatic baggage on July5 last year, had rattled the government for days as fingers were pointed at the ChiefMinister’s office. The dollar case, an offshoot of the gold case, relates to the alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalentto Rs 1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram to Muscat in Oman. Though the central agencies probing the two cases had arrested Vijayan’s close confidante and former principal secretary M Sivasankar, which had cast a shadow over the ruling party’s hopes of retaining power, the resounding victory in the recently concluded civic polls reinfused confidence in the CPI(M). If the gold and dollar smuggling cases were unexpected weapons for the opposition to pin the government and CPI(M) ahead of the polls, the Marxist party used the opportunity to play a victim card, claiming that their government was subjected to a never before witch hunt by the central agencies and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. The Sabarimala women’s entry issue had pushed the ruling party into a deep political crisis three years ago as the government faced stiff opposition from right wing groups against the latter's decision to implement the 2018 apex court verdict, permitting women of all age groups into the hill shrine. When the CPI(M) and the LDF had suffered mass drubbing during the last Lok Sabha polls and had to be satisfied with only one seat, the political rivals wrote off the Left party, saying that it would be difficult for them to resurrect. Rising like a phoenix But the CPI(M)-headed front proved its detractors wrong and rose like a phoenix by winning a series of Assembly bypolls and the resounding victory in the December civic polls. The leadership of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the party’s senior politburo member and the longest serving secretary of the party's state unit, was one of the major factors considered to have helped CPI(M) achieve this historic success. Though he was initially criticised for his party secretary-like ruling style, Vijayan managed to create a mass leader image later through various welfare schemes, empathetic approach towards marginalised sections and effective interventions when the state was struck by calamities like the 2018 floods, which was the worstin a century,Ockhi cyclone, the Nipah outbreak and the COVID-19 pandemic. It may be for the first time in its history that the CPI (M) in Kerala had faced an election more projecting and branding an individual than focussing on its policies. The critical stand adopted by the CPI(M) and the Chief Minister, against the BJP and RSS seemed to have helped it win the confidence of the minority community, especially Muslims, who are dominant in the northern districts of the state. Traditionally, the minorities used to rally behind the Congress-UDF during elections, but a change in this trend was evident in many constituencies this time. The Marxist party also took on the Congress-UDF for its alleged soft approach towards the right wing parties, thus creating an image that they were the only party which stood strongly with the minorities. Cashing on CAA and ‘Love Jihad’ The CPI(M) also tried to cash in on their fears and concerns on various issues like Constitutional Amendment Act and ‘Love Jihad’ row, kicked up by the BJP. By accepting the Kerala Congress(M), the long-term partner of the UDF, which has a strong presence in Central Kerala, in its fold, the Marxist party made deep inroads into the Christian community, which comprises 18.38 per cent of Kerala's total population. Populist poll promises like pension for homemakers, raising of conventional welfare pension and distributing provision kits to all ration card holders seems to have worked in favour of the ruling party and front in the crucial assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Kerala polls: Vijayan rewarded for his leadership during 2018 floods and now Covid||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan isn’t a magnetic orator who can whip a crowd into a frenzy. Still, Vijayan has pulled off a feat that the Marxist crowd-pullers of yesteryear were unable to achieve. He stayed in power for a full five years and has now won a second term in a state that’s notorious for changing political horses every five years. In fact, he made polling history by steering the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) to a back-to-back victory. It marked the first time an incumbent Kerala government won a second straight mandate in four decades. The election verdict marks voters’ approval of Vijayan’s management of extraordinary challenges like the Covid-19 pandemic, the Nipah virus outbreak and the 2018 Kerala floods. The way the 76-year-old political veteran from Dharmadam handled these challenges is the reason the public retained its faith in him. “He has won purely on performance and that is a huge change from all earlier elections,” says one political observer, who adds: “He has delivered and people know he has delivered.” As the pandemic peaked in other parts of India last year, Vijayan became famous as the only chief minister who was facing daily press conferences. Most of the time he looked down and read – occasionally mumbled -- statistics from the sheets of paper in front of him. But the low-key performances won public confidence in a way that no high-profile grandstanding could have done. At the other end of the spectrum, the BJP was out for a duck. Vijayan had said a week before the voting began that the BJP “had opened their first-ever account in Kerala” in 2016 and “this time around, we will close their account.” He was as good as his word. Even “Metroman” E. Sreedharan lost from the Palakkad constituency. The BJP controls the Palakkad municipality so it’s thought voters in the three adjoining panchayats that form part of the constituency voted against Sreedharan, who was so confident of winning he’d even rented a house in Palakkad. Possibly also CPM cadres were told to strategically switch votes to back the Congress to ensure Sreedharan’s defeat. Sreedharan had promised to bring more jobs to the constituency but he also stirred controversy over issues like love jihad during the campaign. The BJP lost its only foothold in Kerala when it came second in the Nemom seat in Thiruvananthapuram. That defeat has pushed the BJP’s veteran Kerala leader Kummanam Rajashekharan back into the political wilderness once again. For the Congress, which ran a lacklustre campaign, there isn’t much consolation to be derived from its showing. The party was, quite simply, unable to pick enough holes in the government’s Teflon-coated campaign. Political parties in Kerala kick off their campaign with state-wide rallies.  At its first rally, the Congress chose to attack the LDF government over the Sabarimala issue of women’s entry into the temple. But the LDF had long since backed away from its initial tough stance on Sabarimala and voters were aware of that. Sabarimala had ceased to be an issue. This became amply clear in this election when even the panchayats near Sabarimala voted for the LDF. The Congress made other mistakes too. Knowing that they were trailing in the polls, they roped in MP Shashi Tharoor to hold public meetings with groups like students and then assembled an election manifesto. But this was an election tactic that came way too late. The fact was the Congress had no innovative ideas to offer. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has represented the Puthuppally constituency for an amazing 50 years. He’s poised to win again but by a reduced margin. Chandy said he accepted the people’s verdict but termed the defeat “an unexpected loss”. Chandy talked about the need for corrective measures but ignored the fact that he and other ageing Congress leaders could be a large part of the party’s problems. By contrast, LDF candidates like the high-profile Health Minister K. K. Shailaja romped home by a huge margin. In many ways, Kerala has evolved in ways unmatched in other parts of the country. When the pandemic struck, it began distributing 280,000 meals daily to older folk and to others who were in financial difficulties. The state also organised anganwadi workers and others on a scale unequalled in the rest of the country to keep Covid-19 numbers down. Later, Covid-19 numbers rose but state government officials insisted that they were winning the most important battle by keeping fatality numbers at impressively low levels. Even now, as infection numbers soared, the state has been able to prevent the rush for beds seen in other parts of the country – although that’s now being strained. Kerala also ensured that it had enough oxygen when cases surged. The BJP, too, was unable to counter the impression that Vijayan was ruling with a firm, steady hand. The Central agencies came in recently and made arrests in the gold smuggling case. But finally, they had only confession statements uncorroborated by other evidence of corruption in the state government and Vijayan was able to paint the investigations as a bid by the Modi government to undermine the state government. Where has the government slipped up? It hasn’t been able to do very much about the state’s chronic unemployment programme. But then the opposition has offered even fewer ideas. At the end of the day, the state’s voters felt Vijayan was running a unified government and getting the cabinet to work together. Even on law and order, the LDF government has been able to keep its cadres under control. (It helps also that the CPI-M has a well-oiled machine on the ground). Vijayan’s public persona is of a tough strongman. In person, though, he’s low-key and doesn’t throw his weight around. Says an observer: “He is the captain of the ship. It’s not one-man rule. But there is control.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccination for 18-45 age group to begin in Delhi from Monday||The third and the largest phase of vaccination, under which beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group will be given jabs against coronavirus, will begin here on Monday. Around 90 lakh people in this category will be eligible for the jabs. Five vaccination booths each have been set up at 77 schools for the inoculation exercise, an official said on Sunday. The government set up vaccination centres at schools to accommodate a high number of beneficiaries, he said. At present, jabs are being given to those aged above 45 at around 500 centres in the national capital. Pre-registration will be mandatory for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group and there will be no walk-ins for this category for now, the official said. Three big private hospital chains Apollo, Fortis and Max have already started vaccinating people in the 18-45 age group at limited centres from Saturday. The Delhi government has placed orders for 1.34 crore vaccine doses with manufactures which will be delivered over the next three months. Of these, 67 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine are being procured from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Officials had earlier said the first tranche of three lakh doses would reach Delhi in the first week of May. Around 1.5 crore people are targeted to be vaccinated in Delhi, of which 32 lakh have received at least one dose so far, they said. The Delhi government is taking the help of the voters' list to ascertain the number of eligible beneficiaries. According to it, there are around 60 lakh people aged above 45 years. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Thursday said a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against coronavirus within the next three months. He had said everybody aged above 18 would be administered COVID-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi. A government official had told that inoculation of the 18-45 age group is likely to have a moderate start and will be ramped up gradually. Vaccine will be delivered to the city government in phases. Private hospitals will have to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, he had said. The Centre will continue to provide vaccine for those aged above 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||BJP has met its match in Bengal and lost: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday hailed Mamata Banerjee for her “spectacular victory” in the West Bengal Assembly polls. He said that said the BJP has met its match in Bengal and lost. Tharoor, who campaigned extensively for the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Kerala polls, also expressed disappointment with the results in the state where the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front was all set to retain power with a thumping mandate. “It’s a day of disappointment for many of my friends and colleagues in @INCKerala. You fought a good fight. The energy and commitment I've seen from you is the party's greatest strength,” Tharoor said. “We must not be disheartened. There is work ahead to renew and revive our party, and to serve the people,” he said in a series of tweets. Tharoor congratulated Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan “for his remarkable re-election, a first in 44 years”. “It is our duty to respect the confidence the people have shown in him and his government. In the fight against Covid and communalism, he (Vijayan) should have our support,”tweeted the MP from Thiruvananthapuram. Hailing Mamata Banerjee on the Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) performance in Bengal, Tharoor said on Twitter, “Congratulations to @MamataOfficial Mamata Banerjee on her spectacular victory over the forces of communalism and intolerance.” “The voters of Bengal (and especially Nandigram) have demonstrated where their hearts lie. The BJP has met its match in Bengal, and lost,” he tweeted. The TMC was ahead in 209 of the 292 seats in the West Bengal polls, way over the victory mark of 147. The BJP was leading on 80 seats. Tharoor also congratulated DMK chief M K Stalin on the “convincing and decisive” victory in Tamil Nadu polls. “All Congress workers are happy to be allied with a party that will restore good governance to Tamil Nadu. Together we must stand for co-operative federalism & #InclusiveIndia,” he said of the DMK-Congress alliance win. After a decade in opposition, the DMK was on course to capture power from the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu as per the trends made available for the 234 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait, 12 others booked for flouting Covid norms at farmers’ meet||The Haryana Police has registered a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and 12 others, who held a 'maha panchayat' in a village in Ambala, for allegedly violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPc, officials said on Sunday. Tikait and some other BKU leaders addressed the 'kisan mazdoor maha panchayat' in Dhurali village near Ambala Cantt on Saturday. Ratan Maan Singh, Baldev Singh and Jasmer Saini are among the other 12 farmer leaders who have been booked by the police. In view of a massive surge in coronavirus cases, the district magistrate had imposed Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more persons. The police said Assistant Sub-Inspector Chandi Singh had warned the BKU leaders not to hold the 'maha panchayat' as Section 144 was enforced in the district. "However, BKU leaders went ahead and organised the event, a senior police official said. Based on a complaint of the assistant sub-inspector, a case was registered against Tikait and 12 other farmer leaders. "They violated the orders under Section 144 as well as the orders duly promulgated by the public servant (district magistrate) under Section 188 of the IPC. The other provisions of IPC added in the FIR include Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), the police official said. Addressing the 'maha panchayat', Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of BKU, reiterated that the agitation against the Centre's new farm laws will continue till the time these legislations are repealed. He asked the farmers to prepare themselves for a long battle. The BKU leader also hit out at the government over its handling of the COVID crisis, saying various hospitals across the country are grappling with a severe shortage of medical oxygen. Talking to the media later, Tikait said during the event, farmers were told that they should take all the steps to protect themselves from the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Govt thinking of roping in medical, nursing graduates for pandemic duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed various measures to augment human resources for effective management of the Covid-19 situation, discussing, among other ways, the possibility of incentivising medical and nursing college graduates for joining the pandemic duty. The final details are likely to be announced on Monday, they added. "Decisions may include delaying NEET and incentivizing MBBS pass-outs studying for it to join the Covid-19 duty. The decisions may also include utilising services of final-year MBBS and nursing students," a government source added. The medical personnel doing the Covid-19 duty may be given preference in the government recruitment and financial incentives as well, the source said. The review meeting took place amid reports of healthcare personnel feeling overwhelmed in some parts of the country due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases, with testing facilities also being under a strain. Following multiple meetings held by Modi on Sunday to review the Covid-19 situation, a statement said the government has also explored the feasibility of conversion of existing nitrogen plants to produce oxygen, and various such potential industries where the existing nitrogen plants may be spared for production of oxygen were identified. After a meeting on the usage of gaseous oxygen, the government noted that many industries like steel plants, refineries with petrochemical units, industries using rich combustion processes and power plants among others have oxygen plants that produce gaseous oxygen. "This oxygen can be tapped for medical use," it said. The strategy being used is to identify industrial units which produce gaseous oxygen of requisite purity, shortlist those which are closer to cities, dense areas and demand centres and establish temporary Covid care establishments with oxygenated beds near that source. A pilot for five such facilities had already been initiated, and there is good progress on this, the government said, adding that this is being accomplished through PSUs or private industries operating the plant and with the coordination of the central and state dispensations. "It is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds can be made available in a short period of time by making temporary hospitals near such plants. State governments are being encouraged to set up more such facilities with oxygenated beds to deal with the pandemic," it added. Modi also reviewed progress on the setting up of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants and was informed that around 1,500 PSA plants are in the process of being established through the contribution of PM Cares Fund, PSUs and others. He directed officials to ensure speedy completion of these plants, the government said. Exploring the feasibility of conversion of existing nitrogen plants to produce oxygen, another meeting chaired by Modi discussed the process of converting the existing PSA nitrogen plants for the production of oxygen. In the nitrogen plants, carbon molecular sieve (CMS) is used whereas zeolite molecular sieve (ZMS) is required for producing oxygen, the government noted, adding that by replacing CMS with ZMS and carrying out a few other changes such as oxygen analyzer, control panel system and flow valves among others, existing nitrogen plants can be modified to produce oxygen. "On deliberation with industries, so far 14 such industries have been identified where conversion of plants is under progress. Further 37 nitrogen plants have been also identified with the help of industry associations," it said. A nitrogen plant modified for the production of oxygen can be either shifted to a nearby hospital or, in case it is not feasible to shift the plant, it can be used for on-site production of oxygen, which can be transported to the hospital through specialized vessels or cylinders, it asserted. Several senior bureaucrats, including Principal Secretary to PM, Cabinet Secretary, Home Secretary, Road Transport & Highways Secretary and & other senior officials, participated in the meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Serum chief, who had flown to UK to escape threats, promises to return ‘in a few days’||Adar Poonwalla, CEO of the Serum Institute of India, now says he plans to return to the country “in a few days” after declaring he had gone into “extended” self-exile in Britain due to threatening demands for the Covid vaccine from chief ministers and powerful Indian corporate figures. Poowalla tweeted he “looked forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days” following “an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the UK.” But he gave no details about the exact schedule for his return. The 40-year-old Serum Institute boss triggered a Twitter storm after he told the Times, London, he had flown to Britain just before it banned travellers from India and that he planned an “extended stay” because of the threats he’s been getting from chief ministers and top business people. Twitter users greeted Poonwalla’s announcement with surprise. According to @thetimes “Poonawalla has fled the country he is supposed to be manufacturing vaccines for. Not very reassuring…” commented Krishan Partap Singh, author of the Raisina Series, a trilogy of political novels. Others said his widely publicized remarks to the leading UK newspaper were another blow to India’s attractiveness as an investment destination. Poonwalla minced no words in his comments to The Times. In fact, “threats is an understatement,” Poonawalla said, adding, “The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them.” Poonawalla, who was given Y level Government security last week that includes police and commandoes, told The Times that the calls begin cordially but the tone usually changes dramatically when he told the callers that it’s not possible to jump the queue. “They are saying if you don’t give us the vaccine it’s not going to be good….It’s not foul language. It’s the tone. It’s the implication of what they might do if I don’t comply. It’s taking control. It’s coming over and basically surrounding the place and not letting us do anything unless we give in to their demands.” Poonawalla told The Times that he planned to stay on in Britain for some time, “because I don’t want to go back to that situation.” He added: “Everything falls on my shoulders but I can’t do it alone…I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do.” In March British newspapers reported that Poonawalla was paying $69,000 a week to rent a sprawling 25,000sq ft house in London’s smart Mayfair district. The newspapers said it was the most expensive rental deal in London in recent times.  His wife and children travelled to Britain some time ago. In remarks that are bound to cause alarm, Poonawalla also said his trip to Britain is partly business and that he may look at starting vaccine production outside India. He refused to comment further on his plans but added, “There’s going to be an announcement soon.” Lord Udny-Lister, a former senior aide of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited the Serum Institute in March. Poonawalla admits he thought the worst might be over in December as the number of Covid cases began to fall. “I thought, ‘We’ve done our bit. We’d struggled through 2020 to get everything ready. I thought I could put my feet up and take a vacation, but it’s been the exact opposite. It’s been chaotic.” Poonawalla refused to comment on the Kumbh Mela and election rallies and added that, “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad.” He says: “We are really gasping for all the help we can get.” He insisted that he supported India’s ban on exports even though it has put him in a fix and left him unable to keep commitments. Poonawalla refused to apportion blame for the explosion in Covid cases or say whether he believed that the Kumbh Mela and election rallies had contributed to the crisis. “If I give you the right answer, or any answer, my head would be chopped off . . . I can’t comment on the elections or Kumbh Mela. It’s too sensitive,” he said.  At the same time, he said, “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad.” He said: “We are really gasping for all the help we can get.” He insisted that he supported India’s ban on exports even though it has put him in a commercial fix and left him unable to keep commitments.  Serum Institute has hired around a thousand new employees and is operating its facilities for 20 hours daily, the maximum possible, he says. Also, Serum Institute will be starting production of Novavax next week but it will only be possible to produce a third of what was originally planned because of a US ban on vaccine-related products.  He also insisted that Serum Institute’s vaccines were the cheapest in the world. Poonawalla said that when the pandemic began he was proud to be the man of the moment and felt, “a proud sense and feeling that people were depending on me, and I was doing my best to save and protect the nation and the world.” However, he’s now very disheartened by the criticism he’s getting. He says, the company is not being, “appreciated and supported, but instead, “we are being vilified and blamed”. The Serum Institute chief said he hoped that when the history books are being written he will be judged more favourably. “That’s what calms me down,” he says, adding: “We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Thank you for reposing faith in the LDF: Sitaram Yechury tells Kerala||With the CPI(M)-led LDF set to return to power in Kerala, the party's general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a video message on Sunday thanked the state's electorate for showing confidence in the party and vowed that the Left party will continue to fight the challenges faced by people. With the initial trends from the state showing the ruling LDF maintaining its lead in 88 of the 140 Assembly constituencies in Kerala while the opposition Congress-headed UDF was ahead in 50 segments, as per trends available till 10.30 am, Yechury seemed confident that his party will emerge triumphant. "I thank the people of Kerala for reposing faith in an unprecedented manner in the way that the previous LDF government tackled all the challenges that the people have faced and also the pandemic scourge. The government gave a Kerala model to the world on how to handle the pandemic," he said. He said that the country, as well as the state, is facing twin dangers at the moment -- livelihood issues arising out of the pandemic and the defence and safeguarding of the constitutional, secular, Republic of India. "The CPI(M)-led LDF will play its due role in this and we expect that the people of Kerala who have always stood up as one will continue to do so in a stronger manner," he said. Yechury also paid homage to those who had lost their lives in a completely "preventable" scourge of the coronavirus pandemic and said the people of this country have to come together to fight the disease. "We have to make sure that we come together to beat this disease and create a better India and a better Kerala for all of us," he said. If the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government comes back to power in Kerala, it will set a precedent -- after the 1970s, the people of Kerala have not voted a chief minister or party back to power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||France delivers 28 tonnes of medical supplies to India||France on Sunday delivered to India 28 tonnes of ready-to-use medical supplies including eight large oxygen plants as part of the first phase of its solidarity mission to the country which has been grappling with record coronavirus cases. The French embassy said each of the eight plants can continuously supply oxygen to a 250-bed hospital round-the-clock for a dozen years and that they produce medical oxygen from ambient air. "The oxygen plants will be delivered to 8 Indian hospitals, 6 in Delhi, one in Haryana and one in Telangana, based on needs as identified by the Indian authorities," the French embassy said in a statement on Saturday. A special cargo flight brought the supplies to Delhi from France. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said more supplies will come soon from France and that both countries stand together in this fight against the pandemic. The embassy said the medical supplies were worth more than Rs 17 crore. "We stand by India in these difficult times, just as India has always stood by France. In Spring 2020, when French hospitals were facing acute shortages, India provided life-saving help through the export of critical medical drugs," Lenain said. "The French people have not forgotten. India has, in fact, been at the forefront of international cooperation against the pandemic, including through sharing its massive vaccine production capacity with the countries most in need," he said. The French supplies also comprised 28 ventilators and 200 electric syringe pumps to be distributed to several hospitals to enhance their ICU capacities. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said the assistance by France is a testament to the strategic partnership between the two countries. "A testament to India-France strategic partnership & friendship! 28 tonnes of medical equipment including 8 hospital-level oxygen generators and other medical supplies arrives from France. Deeply appreciate the support from France. Will bolster our oxygen capacities," he tweeted. Separately, Belgium also sent 9000 vials of Remdesivir to India on Sunday. The US on Saturday night sent to India a third flight that brought over 1000 oxygen cylinders, regulators and other medical equipment. Two American military aircraft on Friday brought to India large amounts of emergency medical supplies which included 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators, 210 pulse oximeters, 17 large oxygen cylinders, 8,84,000 Abbott rapid diagnostic test kits and 84,000 N-95 face masks. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, several countries around the world are sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have announced assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius. Some of the countries have already delivered the supplies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Puducherry: NDA headed for a win, Congress trailing||The NR Congress on Sunday won eight seats in Puducherry and its ally BJP secured three while the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) emerged victorious in three constituencies as the counting continued for the votes polled in the April 6 elections. As the results for 14 out of 30 assembly seats were declared, the AINRC bagged eight, BJP three, DMK one and Congress two, the Election Commission said. A Namassivayam ofBJP emerged victorious from Mannadipet constituency after defeating his DMK rival A Krishnan. Namassivayam, who shifted his allegiance to the saffron party in January this year after quitting the Congress, contested the April 6 poll from Mannadipet seat as BJP nominee. The former minister polled 14,939 votes while his rival secured 12,189 votes. A green horn in poll battle, U Lakshmikandhan of AINRC wrested the Embalam (reserved) segment from Congress by defeating its candidate and former Welfare Minister M Kandasamy. Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh told PTI that the BJP nominee A John Kumar was declared elected from Kamaraj Nagar. Kumar defeated his immediate Congress rival and former Industries Minister M O H F Shah Jahan. John Kumar was elected from Kamaraj Nagar in the by election held in November 2019 on Congress ticket. He has now retained the segment but on different party ticket. Kumar joined BJP in February after quitting Congress and contested the April 6 poll locking horns with former Industries Minister. M Vaithianathan of Congress defeated BJP's V Saminathan, who is president of Puducherry unit of the party, by a margin of 5,652 votes in the Lawspet constituency. Saminathan was one of the nominated legislators in the outgoing Assembly. Vaithianathan quit the AINRC a few months ago and joined the Congress. The DMK wrested the Uppalam constituency here from the AIADMK in the April 6 poll to the territorial Assembly. DMK nominee Annibal Kennedy defeated AIADMK's A Anbalagam in Uppalam. Anbalagan was holding the constituency consecutively from his first election in 2001. Puducherry elections Seats: 30 Number of voters: 10.03 lakh Voting: April 6 Incumbent: Secular Democratic Alliance Majority mark: 16 Poll issues Political stability: The stability of the government is perceived to be one of the major issues in Puducherry, which witnessed the fall of the government just before its term ended as the Congress leadership asked Narayanasamy to resign due to internal party politics. Corruption: BJP has launched scathing attacks on the erstwhile Congress-led alliance government, accusing it of corruption and not fulfilling poll promises. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while campaigning in Puducherry, had slammed the Congress high command in Delhi, saying that the UT had a “special place” among the list of non-performing Congress governments in the country. “Take any sector -- education, filling of medical seats, the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled tribes -- there was nothing but loot,” Modi said at a rally. Statehood: Demands for securing statehood have been there for quite some time now, given that Puducherry can boast of offering a very high quality of life with excellent physical infrastructure and almost hundred per cent literacy levels. The state Assembly has passed a resolution for full statehood but it is yet to eb endorsed by the Centre. If the NDA comes to power, the Union Territory, which has its own legislature and Chief Minister, may have a shot at that. Congress-DMK tension: The two parties are part of the same alliance, but tension between them is apparent. There has always been a power tussle among the two parties which may have emerged as an issue with voters. Minorities: A contentious demand from Muslims and Christians to add them to the reserved categories is one of the key issues, something that might give an edge to the Congress. Social Welfare Minister M Kandasamy has already taken steps regarding this matter, which may help Congress make a comeback. Key candidates Former chief minister and ANRC leader N Rangasamy, heading the National Democratic Alliance, was perhaps the most prominent face of the election. He contested from Thattanchavady as well as Yanam, an enclave of the UT. The chief contestants in the poll are the AINRC leader N Rangasamy heading the NDA in which the AINRC, AIADMK and BJP are the constituents. On the other side, the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) comprises the Congress, DMK, VCK, and CPI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||EC orders FIR over celebratory congregations in anticipation of poll victory||With the counting of votes underway, the Election Commission Sunday said it has taken a stern view of reports of congregation of people to celebrate anticipated victory, and has asked the chief secretaries concerned to file an FIR in each case and suspend the police station in charge where such gatherings happen. Responding to queries about reports of celebratory gatherings by supporters of political parties, an EC spokesperson said the poll panel has taken a serious note of some reports of congregations of people to celebrate anticipated victory. "The ECI has directed CS (chief secretaries) of all five states to file FIR in each such case, suspend the SHO of the concerned police station and report action taken immediately of each such incidence," the spokesperson said. The EC had recently banned victory processions on the counting day to curb the spread of coronavirus. The counting of votes for the assembly polls in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry is underway at a time the country is grappling with a raging Covid-19 pandemic. The counting process began at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||14-day lockdown in Odisha from May 5||The Odisha government on Sunday declared a 14-day lockdown in the state from May 5 to contain the spread of Covid-19, an official order said. Barring weekends, essential commodities would be available on all other days during the two-week-long lockdown, the order issued by Chief Secretary S.C. Mohapatra said. "There shall be lockdown throughout the state with effect from May 5, 2021 (Wednesday) till 5am of May 19, 2021 (Wednesday)," the order stated. People will be allowed to purchase essential items within 500 metre radius of their residences between 6 am and 12 pm, according to the official order. During weekends, they will only be able to avail medical services. The order further said that the lockdown and the weekend shutdown will not be applicable to any poll-related work, such as movement of personnel engaged in facilitating by-election to Pipili assembly constituency. Polling in Pipili is scheduled to be held on May 16. "The lockdown is primarily aimed at regulating movement of common people. No restriction has been imposed on goods carriers," the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Kerala poll trends: Ruling LDF heading for a historic win, breaking a 40-year trend||Ruling LDF took the early lead in Kerala with the left alliance leading in 97 seats while the Congress-led UDF are ahead in 42 seats. BJP managed to take the lead in 3 seats, according to ndtv.com. Counting for the 140-seat Kerala assembly began amid strict adherence to Covid norms as the country battles the raging pandemic, with postal ballots being counted first. Exit polls of local and national television networks have predicted unanimously that the LDF will be re-elected with varying degrees of margins. If that happens, it will mean an end to the four-decade-old trend in the state’s politics of the incumbent not being re-elected Kerala Assembly Elections Seats: 140 Voters: 2.74 crore Voting: one day, April 6 Incumbent: LDF with 91 seats Majority mark: 71 Kerala voters have an unblemished record since the 1970s of ejecting incumbent governments. If the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF wins this time it will be a first after a very long time. It will be seen as Vijayan’s win and will strengthen his position in the party. Voters have been impressed by his handling of Covid-19 and also the 2018 Kerala floods. Some observers say this will be the first Kerala election that has been decided on performance. The UDF, by contrast, went to the polls without naming a leader. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy was considered one potential. Also, former minister and former president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee V. M. Sudheeran was another potential leader. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor was reckoned to be an outside contender. The Congress is in a tricky situation. In the 2019 general elections it won 19 out of the 20 seats in Kerala. This is also a huge chunk of its 54 Lok Sabha seats. If it loses this time, it will be despite the fact that Rahul Gandhi represents Kerala’s Wayanad constituency and had campaigned actively. Poll issues Though Covid-19 numbers are now soaring, the belief in Kerala is that Vijayan has done a good job tackling the situation. There are questions about the numbers but Kerala has kept fatalities low and the hospital system is coping even as numbers have soared. The state is also one of the few that has sufficient oxygen supplies for patients. The state also has a large number of older people living on their own and this created unique problems of its own. So, in April last year the state began serving 2.8 lakh food packets daily for people who found it difficult to get to shops during lockdown. At a different level, camps were created for migrant workers who have become crucial players in the Kerala economy. Similarly, in the 2018 Kerala floods the government rose to provide aid rapidly to affected people. Its biggest black mark was one not entirely of its own making, over the right of all women to enter the Sabarimala Temple. The Supreme Court ordered that women of all ages should be allowed into the temple and the Kerala government moved zealously to ensure that this was implemented. This angered many Hindus in the state. Key candidates Pinarayi Vijayan contested from his hometown seat, Dharmadam, in the North Kerala Malabar region. He first entered the legislative assembly in 1970 and has won a total of five elections since then. In the 1990s as power minister, he is said to have vastly improved the sector. His great rival in the party was the former LDF Chief Minister V. S. Achuthanandan who wouldn’t leave politics despite his advanced age. Oommen Chandy also has an extraordinary political career behind him. He has represented Puthuppally in Kottayam district for over 50 years since 1970. He has had two terms as chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||India logs over 3.92 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,689 casualties in a day||A record 3,689 daily COVID-19 fatalities pushed India's death toll to 2,15,542, while the infection count reached to 1,95,57,457 with 3,92,488 more people being confirmed positive for the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have crossed the 33-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 33,49,644, comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.77 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 59,92,271, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to ICMR, 29,01,42,339 samples have been tested up to May 1 with 18,04,954 samples being tested on Saturday. The 3,689 new fatalities included 802 from Maharashtra, 412 from Delhi, 304 from Uttar Pradesh, 271 from Karnataka, 229 from Chhattisgarh, 172 from Gujarat, 169 from Jharkhand,160 from Rajasthan, 147 from Tamil Nadu, 138 from Punjab,125 from Haryana, 107 from Uttarakhand, 103 from West Bengal and 102 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 2,15,542 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 69,615 from Maharashtra, 16,559 from Delhi ,15,794 from Karnataka, 14,193 from Tamil Nadu, 12,874 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,447 from West Bengal, 9,160 from Punjab and 8,810 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls: DMK set to regain reins of power from arch-rival AIDMK||After a decade in opposition, the DMK is on course to capturing power from the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu as per the trends made available for the 234 segments, while the incumbent ruling party appears set to win a chunk of seats that would make it a formidable Oopposition. As counting of votes progressed on Sunday for the April 6 assembly elections, the DMK steadily improved its position and was leading in 121 seats, while 118 is the minimum number required for a simple majority in the 234-member House. If the trends hold good it will be a dream come true moment for the DMK and in sync with its election song, "Stalin thaan vararu", which means Stalin is going to become the Chief Minister. Cadres went ecstatic with the trends, burst crackers and distributed sweets at party headquarters Anna Arivalayam here, apparently in violation of COVID-19 guidelines. On public celebrations, authorities here cited a communique from the Election Commission headquarters that directed placing under immediate suspension of jurisdictional police and other officers and initiation of disciplinary and criminal action against them. Police said Teynampet inspector in-charge of law and order has been placed under suspension for his "lackadaisical attitude and dereliction of duty" and not ensuring compliance of ECs instructions in this connection. DMK's major ally Congress was leading in 15 seats, two Left parties together in four segments and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi in three constituencies. DMK and its allies together are leading in 145 seats. The AIADMK is ahead in 81 seats and together with its partners in 90 constituencies, according to trends made available by the Election Commission for all the 234 segments at 5.00 pm. Allies PMK and BJP were ahead in six and three seats, respectively. Seats: 234 Number of voters: 6.28 crore Voting: Incumbent: AIADMK 134 seats Majority mark: 118  For the first time in 50 years, the land of the Dravidian movement is witnessing an election without the stalwarts of the two major parties – M. Karunanidhi of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and J. Jayalalithaa of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). The DMK is led by M.K. Stalin – he was anointed by Karunanidhi as his successor, and this helped stave off the challenge from M.K. Alagiri, Stalin’s older brother who holds sway over southern Tamil Nadu. Stalin has been party president since 2018 but is yet to deliver an Assembly election victory, but the DMK won 38 of 39 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 elections. The AIADMK government in the state has closed ranks and its two top leaders are CM Edapaddi K Palaniswami and deputy CM O. Panneerselvan Poll issues Local vs outsider: The AIADMK-led alliance includes the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), Tamil Maanila Congress, and some other smaller parties. The DMK, which is in alliance with the Congress and Left parties, has highlighted the ‘local vs. outsider’ issue targeting the BJP for controlling things from the Centre. COVID-19: The Opposition has accused the state government of mishandling the pandemic. In the initial stages, the state overlooked cluster spreads in markets and other places and this resulted in large numbers. The second wave too has shown cases growing alarmingly, and the Madras High Court came down heavily on the government for not doing enough to curtail political rallies. Home Minister Amit Shah held massive rallies at various places in the state. Water scarcity: Just before the polls were announced, Tamil Nadu declared drought in 24 of 38 districts. The State received deficit monsoon rain from both south west (-12%) and north east winds (-24%). CAA: With a Muslim population of 5.86% (according to the 2011 census), the DMK has spoken out against the Centre on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Even the AIADMK, in its manifesto, has said that it will urge the Centre to withdraw the CAA. NEET: Holding the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medicine has become a poll issue. In its manifesto, the DMK has promised to abolish NEET; the chief minister has alleged that the DMK and Congress are “responsible” for introducing the exam in the State in the first place. NEET was introduced in the State in 2017 before which state board marks were taken into consideration. Several students especially from impoverished backgrounds have died by suicide after failing to clear the exam. Freebies for women: The AIADMK has said it will give Rs 1,500 per month to a woman in every household if it returns to power. It has also promised of maternity leave, free washing machines, free gas cylinders, free solar stoves, and ‘Amma patrol teams’ for women’s safety. The DMK has promised Rs 1,000 per month to a woman in every household, more maternity benefits, free bus passes, gas cylinders at reduced prices and so forth. But none of the major parties has nominated even 13% of women candidates – AIADMK 8% and DMK 6%. Key candidates Chief Minister Palaniswami is contesting from Edappadi in Salem district. He has won four times from there in the past. Palaniswami handed out internal reservation of 10.5 per cent for Vanniyars, who have a say in the seat, but this hasn’t gone down well with several other communities. The Vanniyars have largely pledged their support to the PMK (Pattali Makkal Katchi) Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, popularly known as OPS, is contesting from Bodinayakanur (in Theni district in the foothills of the Western Ghats), and faces DMK's Thanga Tamizh Selvan, who was earlier in the AIADMK. Stalin is contesting from Kolathur (part of Chennai North Lok Sabha constituency). Kamal Haasan (who launched Makkal Nidhi Maiam… People’s Justice Centre in 2018) is contesting from Coimbatore South. Congress working president in Tamil Nadu Mayura Jayakumar is also in the fray. Stalin’s son Udayanidhi Stalin is contesting from Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni. BJP’s Khushboo is contesting from Thousand Lights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Assembly polls: All set for counting, but early trends may be delayed  ||All arrangements are in place for counting of votes on Sunday in tune with COVID-19 guidelines for Assembly polls held between March 27 to April 29 in the four states of Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and the Union Territory of Pondicherry. In Bengal, where the ruling Trinamul Congress headed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee is pitted against the BJP, the Election Commission has deployed 292 counting observers across the state to oversee the counting process. The counting of votes on Sunday is likely to take longer than usual and early trends will start emerging well beyond 12 noon unlike previous years, sources in the Election Commission have said. Amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, there has been a major structural change in the way counting of votes is done and this may delay the process till late in the evening. “Generally, postal ballots, which are counted first, give an early trend. But this time, the number of postal ballots has increased and hence, it will take longer to count them,” an EC official said. “Moreover, all candidates and counting agents will be checked for negative RT-PCR/RAT test reports or vaccination certificates. Hence, the counting will start later than usual,” the official added and said the official hour for counting to start was 8am. The early trend comes from the counting of postal ballots, which gives a rough idea of the fate of a particular seat. Most political parties look forward to these trends. While an early trend used to become clear within two to three hours of the counting’s start in previous elections, it might take over five to six hours this time, sources said. “Postal ballots were primarily for people who are government officials and lived outside their Assembly seats or were engaged for poll duty. But this time, the poll panel has extended the facility of postal ballots to senior citizens, patients and physically-challenged individuals. This has increased the number of postal ballots,” the source said. The EC also increased the number of booths in Bengal to 1,01,790 from 78,903 in 2019 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This has increased the number of EVMs by almost 30 per cent. As a result, this time, it might go up to 18 to 20 rounds of counting or more, delaying the process. Previously, there would be a maximum of 14 to 15 rounds of counting. Moreover, the EC has reduced the number of tables by almost half inside a counting hall to ensure physical distancing. Thus, while previously, there would be 14 to 15 counting tables, this time, there will be 7 only. After every round of counting, the entire hall will be sanitised, which will take farther time. “The entire counting process will be delayed this time because of the pandemic and measures taken by the EC. Therefore, all of us must wait at least till afternoon to get an understanding of which way the result is going. Leaders should refrain from predicting results from early in the day and ask followers to restrain themselves in view of the current situation,” said Subhamoy Maitra, a psephologist and professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. Kerala In Kerala, as many as 957 candidates, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, 11 of his cabinet colleagues, Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy, BJP state chief K Surendran, 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, and former Union minister, K J Alphons among others were in fray for the 140 assembly seats. Though all the exit polls and pre poll surveys had predicted a massive win for the ruling front, the opposition UDF has not given up hope. In Kerala, of the 633 halls in 114 counting centres, 527 will be earmarked for tabulating EVM votes while the remaining 106 will be for counting postal votes, Chief Electoral Officer, Teeka Ram Meena said. Tamil Nadu In Tamil Nadu, though there were four fronts including actor-politician Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam led combine, the key contest was between the ruling AIADMK and main opposition DMK, which exit polls have predicted that would wrest the reins of power. There were nearly 4,000 candidates in the fray including Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, DMK president M K Stalin, his son and party youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, AIADMK's rival and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief TTV Dhinakaran, MNM's Haasan and BJP state unit chief L Murugan were among the prominent candidates. In Tamil Nadu, there are 75 counting centres spread across the state and all arrangements are in place to smoothly conduct the exercise, authorities said. Cumulatively, there would be 3,372 EVM tables and depending on the constituency and votes polled, counting of votes is expected to range anywhere from 13 to 43 rounds in each of the 234 segments. Puducherry In the Union territory of Puducherry, the former Chief Minister N Rangaswamy led All India NR Congress-BJP alliance and Congress-DMK combine are the key contenders for power. Exit polls have predicted a win for the front led by Rangaswamy. As many as 1,382 personnel would be deployed for counting of votes in the whole of the UT while about 400 police personnel shall be on security duties. Covid guidelines Authorities said the counting of votes would be in strict adherence to the EC guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus which includes RT-PCR testing for agents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi calls for national plan to fight the epidemic||Sonia Gandhi on Saturday stressed the need for unity amid the Covid crisis and called for a national plan to fight the epidemic. “Friends, I want to stress that unity is the key to success in overcoming this crisis. I express my condolences to the families who have lost their dear ones,” the Congress president said in a video message. “We have to hold each other’s hand; we have to become each other’s support as well as strength. This tragedy has shaken humanity but try to rise above differences to help people,” she said. Sonia urged the central and state governments to wake up and discharge their duties. “A national plan to fight Covid should be evolved in consultation with all the political parties of the country,” she said, appearing to hint at the government’s failure to meet the challenge and flag the need to harness the collective wisdom available within the country. The government has been rebuffing and ridiculing the Congress over the suggestions it has provided on ways of tackling the epidemic and the accompanying humanitarian and economic crises, while subsequently accepting some of them without acknowledgement. Sonia recently regretted that her suggestions, based on discussions with senior politicians possessing decades of administrative experience, had fallen on deaf ears as the situation plummeted from bad to worse. On Saturday, the Congress president flagged the severe shortages of oxygen and medicine and yet again provided certain suggestions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The first thing that needs to be done is put Rs 6,000 in the accounts of the poor to stop their exodus from the cities. Ramp up testing, availability of oxygen and medicine, and start vaccination on a war footing,” she said. “Invoke compulsory licensing to increase vaccine production, avoid discriminatory pricing, stop black marketeering of life-saving drugs and ensure industrial oxygen is transformed into medical oxygen.” Several Congress leaders expressed outrage at the government’s attempts to deny the oxygen shortage. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Shortage crisis of vaccine, oxygen & medical supply is real... unlike PM’s image.” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala dripped sarcasm: “No shortage but India is gasping for oxygen. Only Modi government cannot see it.” He added: “Patients are dying every day. Hospitals don’t have oxygen. Oxygen cylinders aren’t available. Cylinder refill is a challenge. Paper affidavits in (the) Supreme Court will not change the truth.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram chided the government over the vaccine shortage, saying the expansion of the vaccination campaign to include those aged between 18 and 45 had been a “non-starter”. “All but six states have refused to roll out the programme citing insufficiency of vaccines. The (Union) health minister who declared ‘there is no shortage of vaccines’ should admit his failure and resign,” he said. “The vaccine shortage and the failure of the rollout programme are examples of the total mismanagement of the fight against (the) coronavirus. If the health minister is not held accountable, who will be?” The Congress on Saturday launched a medical advisory helpline for Covid patients and a plasma helpline. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas said that around 22,000 volunteers were working round the clock on Rahul’s request. “We have seen how people are struggling for oxygen and plasma. So far, Youth Congress workers were donating plasma. With this helpline, anybody who has recovered from Covid and wants to donate plasma can (do so),” he said. “This will help patients across the country, at the district and block levels, through a control room that will have the complete data bank.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Virus kills Bihar govt lawyer||Lawyer Keshav Mohan, who had been representing the Bihar government in the Supreme Court, passed away on Saturday morning due to Covid-related complications at a hospital here, his family said. Mohan, who was in his early 40s, is survived by his wife and two children. Enrolled with the Bar Council of Delhi after completing his LLB from Campus Law Centre of Delhi University, Mohan was recently appointed as the additional standing counsel to represent Bihar government in the top court. He had successfully justified in the Supreme Court the decision of the Bihar government to transfer to the CBI the case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The top court had accepted the recommendation of the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the FIR lodged at Patna by Sushant’s father, who had accused the actor’s former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and six others of various offences including abetment of suicide. Mohan had been appearing for the Sahara group and its chief Subrata Roy in the apex court in the matter related to dispute of the company with markets regulator Sebi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Jailed RJD strongman Shahabuddin dies of Covid||Jailed former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin died of Covid-19 at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital here on Saturday, the Delhi prisons department said. Shahabuddin, 53, who was serving a life sentence in a murder case, was admitted to the hospital on April 20, it said. Prison officials said Shahabuddin was admitted to the ICU two-three days ago. The former Siwan MP was lodged in high-security jail number 2 at Tihar, they said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, his wife Rabri Devi and son Tejashwi Yadav condoled Shahabuddin’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Covid:  Indian government  ignored new variants’ threat||A forum of scientific advisers set up by the Indian government warned officials in early March of a new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus taking hold in the country, five scientists who are part of the forum said. Despite the warning, the Centre did not seek to impose major restrictions to stop the spread of the virus. Millions of largely unmasked people attended religious festivals and political rallies that were held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders. The warning about the new variant in early March was issued by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium, or Insacog. It was conveyed to a top official who reports directly to the Prime Minister, according to one of the scientists who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Reuters could not determine whether the Insacog findings were passed on to Modi. Modi’s office did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters. Insacog was set up as a forum of scientific advisers by the government in late December specifically to detect genomic variants of the coronavirus that might threaten public health. Insacog researchers first detected B.1.617, which is now known as the Indian variant of the virus, as early as February, Ajay Parida, director of the government-run Institute of Life Sciences and a member of Insacog, told Reuters. Insacog shared its findings with the health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) before March 10, warning that infections could quickly increase, the scientist who spoke on condition of anonymity said. The findings were then passed on to the health ministry, this person said. The ministry did not respond to requests for comment. Around that date, Insacog began to prepare a draft media statement for the health ministry. A version of that draft, seen by Reuters, set out the forum’s findings: the new Indian variant had two significant mutations, and it had been traced in 15 to 20 per cent of samples from Maharashtra, the worst-affected state. The draft statement said that the mutations, called E484Q and L452R, were of high concern. It said “there is data of E484Q mutant viruses escaping highly neutralising antibodies in cultures, and there is data that L452R mutation was responsible for both increased transmissibility and immune escape”. In other words, this meant mutated versions of the virus could more easily enter a human cell and counter a person’s immune response to it. The ministry made the findings public on March 24, when it issued a statement to the media that did not include the words “high concern”. The statement said only that more problematic variants required increased testing and quarantine. Asked why the government did not respond more forcefully, for example by restricting large gatherings, Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of Insacog, said: “I am worried that science was not taken into account to drive policy. But I know where my jurisdiction stops. As scientists we provide the evidence, policymaking is the job of the government.” The scientist who spoke on condition of anonymity told Reuters the draft media release was sent to the most senior bureaucrat in the country, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, who reports directly to the Prime Minister. Reuters was unable to learn whether Modi was informed of the findings. Gauba did not respond to a request for comment. The government took no steps to prevent gatherings that might hasten the spread of the new variant, as new infections quadrupled by April 1 from a month earlier. Election rallies continued. Insacog reports to the NCDC in New Delhi. NCDC director Sujeet Kumar Singh recently told a private online gathering that strict lockdown measures had been needed in early April, according to a recording of the meeting reviewed by Reuters. “The exact time, as per our thinking, was 15 days before,” Singh said. Singh did not say at the meeting whether he warned the government directly of the need for action at that time. He declined to comment to Reuters. Singh told the April 19 gathering that more recently, he had relayed the urgency of the matter to government officials. “It was highlighted very, very clearly that unless drastic measures are taken now, it will be too late to prevent the mortality which we are going to see,” said Singh, referring to a meeting on April 18. The need for urgent action was also expressed the week before by the National Task Force for Covid-19, a group of 21 experts and government officials set up last April to provide scientific and technical guidance to the health ministry on the pandemic. It is chaired by V.K. Paul, Modi’s top coronavirus adviser. The group had a discussion on April 15 and “unanimously agreed that the situation is serious and that we should not hesitate in imposing lockdowns”, said one scientist who took part. Reuters could not determine if Paul relayed the group’s conclusion to Modi. Paul did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters. Modi addressed the nation on April 20, arguing against lockdowns. “We have to save the country from lockdowns. I would also request the states to use lockdowns as the last option,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Covid: Senior doctor, 7 others die because of oxygen shortage ||A senior doctor died along with seven other Covid patients in his own hospital because of an oxygen shortage despite the Delhi facility sending out an SOS for supplies on Saturday morning, officials have said. “We are trying to resuscitate five other critical patients,” said S.C.L. Gupta, medical director of the Batra Hospital which allegedly received oxygen at 1.35pm, more than an hour after it had run out of stocks. Gupta said that among the dead was Dr R.K. Himthani, head of the gastroenterology department who had been a patient at the hospital for over a fortnight. Gupta said the Batra Hospital had informed the authorities about an oxygen shortage on Saturday morning, when it had 2,500 litres of the gas left. The hospital ran out of oxygen around 12.30pm and the oxygen tanker arrived at 1.35pm, hospital authorities said. Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj has stopped admitting patients citing an oxygen scarcity. Sources said the hospital had four hours of oxygen left. According to the “Delhi Corona” mobile app, Fortis has 106 coronavirus patients. The Sehgal Neo Hospital in Meera Bagh has sent out an SOS on Twitter about its dwindling oxygen stocks. “We request urgent assistance in getting #SOSoxygen. We are running out of our backup supply, and have been waiting for a supply since early morning. We have 90 patients on O2 & 13 in ICU,” the hospital tweeted around 12.40pm. Hospitals across Delhi and its suburbs have been issuing desperate appeals for oxygen on social media. Last week, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had said that 25 of its “sickest” patients had died because of a lack of oxygen, and Jaipur Golden Hospital reported 20 deaths citing the same cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||PM to blame for devastation: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said in an interview with PTI that the entire world is shaken by the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and accused the government of ignoring all early warnings. Excerpts follow: The second wave of coronavirus has hit India hard. We see people gasping for medical aid, medicines, oxygen. How do you see the situation and the response of the government? It breaks my heart every single day to wake up to the absolute devastation around us….  There are never-ending queues everywhere…. There is a fatal shortage of every single item we need to tackle Covid-19…. India is now the world’s coronavirus epicentre. The entire world is shaken by what they are seeing in India. None of this should have happened. There were multiple early warning signs. Forget the signs, scientists clearly warned the government this would happen…. We could and should have been much better prepared. And now, where is the government in this crisis? It is completely missing in action. Did the government falter in assessing the Covid situation? Who is at fault? Absolutely. The Prime Minister is at fault. He runs a highly centralised and personalised government machinery…. The fact is that this government completely failed to understand or to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic — right from the very beginning…. Since the very start of this pandemic back in 2020, I kept trying to warn the government about the disaster ahead…. It’s not just me — anyone who tried to sound the alarm, the state callously and thoughtlessly ignored. Modi government let this virus enter India through our airports in February and March of 2020. And then it panicked and without consultation or thought imposed the world’s harshest lockdown. Migrant workers were left to fend for themselves and an unprecedented exodus began from the cities. The poorest of the poor were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres home with no support, no aid. In his sheer ignorance, the Prime Minister said he would defeat the virus in 21 days, akin to the battle of Mahabharata! Modi government is plainly arrogant… declaring victory against the virus is absolute insanity and demonstrates a complete misunderstanding of the nature of what this virus is. The only way to fight corona is with humility and by realising that you are faced with a relentless opponent, who can adapt and is very resilient. The PM had an entire year to better prepare, protect India, and think through this crisis but what did they do? Did the PM & the government add sufficient oxygen capacity, ramp up testing, increase hospital beds, ventilators? Did the PM think long-term about the state of our health infrastructure and start building for the sort of subsequent corona waves that almost every country in the world was experiencing? It was sheer luck that we emerged out of last year’s nightmare, to a point where we had less than 10,000 new cases in a day early in 2021. We were not testing enough then. We are not testing enough now. Where was the preparation for this massive second wave? Why were the jumbo facilities put up last year dismantled? Why did they raise oxygen exports over 700 per cent — think of that number, 700 per cent — in the months before this brutal second wave? What could the government have done differently to address the second wave? The Modi government was both grossly negligent and blindly overconfident. The BJP announced the end of the pandemic and congratulated the Prime Minister for his “success” even as the second wave was just beginning. The Prime Minister himself is on record as having said that India had successfully fought the pandemic and won. In reality, there was no coherent strategy. One, the government should have built massive capacity over the last year — testing, oxygen, hospital beds, ventilators. Two, they should not have declared victory prematurely. Three, the Prime Minister and his government did not even acknowledge there was a problem. How can you fix something you don’t even accept exists? Four, the government did not act on scientific advice or evidence. They continuously ignored rising cases and were busy instead with election campaigns. They encouraged super-spreader events. They even bragged about them. Our Prime Minister and home minister were not even wearing masks in public over the past few months. What sort of a message is that sending to citizens? Five, most importantly, the only solution we have is vaccination. We are supposed to be the largest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. And yet, India is desperately short of vaccines. …If that is not a failure to plan and execute, what is? With India seeing around 4 lakh cases a day, is there a case for national emergency? We are already in the midst of a national emergency. But just declaring something is not the answer. The biggest problem of this government is it announces and then absconds. Now that the situation is completely out of control, they have dropped the ball and thrown it to the states. They have made the states and citizens truly “Aatmanirbhar”. Rely on yourself is the motto. No one will come to help you. Definitely, not the Prime Minister. The need of the hour is to hold hands, work together and heal our people. India must be the only country in the world facing this massive pandemic without the guidance of an expert and empowered group that is charged with fighting the virus and protecting the people, with planning ahead, anticipating needs and taking the decisions that will result in swift action to save lives. Government of India has said it repeatedly warned states about the second wave… Would you say the current situation is a collective failure of the Centre and states? The entire country has already been under the Epidemic Act for more than a year. The Centre has absolute power over states under the Act…. When cases went down, they declared victory, and the Prime Minister took all the credit as he always does. Now that the situation is terrible, why are you blaming the states? …The Modi government took tens of thousands of crores of donations in his name (PM CARES), without any transparency … States do not even get their GST dues on time. States are dependent on the Modi government for quotas of oxygen, remdesivir and tocilizumab injections. The Modi government has chained the hands of the states behind their backs, so they are completely powerless, and then asks them to sort out their own affairs. Obviously, the system will collapse. All adult vaccinations are starting on May 1 along the lines you demanded, but states say they cannot start as they do not have the vaccines. Did you seek the expansion of vaccinations too early? First, the government set a target of vaccinating 300 million by August. This is the above-45 age category. They managed to fully vaccinate not even 2 per cent of the total population. With the mounting pressure of the government not vaccinating enough, they added another 600 million to the list, by starting vaccinations for the 18-plus group from May 1. But where are the vaccines? Why did the Modi government abandon the people between age groups of 18 and 44 years by refusing to take responsibility for their vaccination? …What is the strategy beyond two companies? How can that suffice for almost 1 billion people? We need 2 billion doses. Now they are scrambling for vaccines. Vaccine makers have reduced prices for states. Your comments? This is the story of “discount sale”, where you mark up the price, and then make a show of reducing it. It is complete eyewash. Why should states pay more than the Centre to buy vaccines? …Why should there be a difference in price for vaccines for the Centre, the states and the private hospitals? Madras High Court has held the Election Commission responsible for the Covid situation. Your views? The court was echoing a widely held view…. I don’t want to make any further comment…. Our institutions are a warning system — they give us feedback and information on how to respond to crisis. But our institutions have been completely destroyed and taken over. The press, judiciary, Election Commission, bureaucracy — none of them have played their role of guardian/watchdog. This means India today is like a ship in a storm, sailing without any information. Corona is just part of the problem — the real problem is that India now doesn’t have the capacity to respond to any major crisis because of what has been done to its systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Delhi High Court directs Centre to ensure the capital receives 490 tonnes of oxygen||Delhi High Court on Saturday directed the Centre to ensure the capital received its full quota of 490 tonnes of oxygen, saying “enough is enough”, on a day a doctor and seven other Covid patients died because of an oxygen shortage at the Batra Hospital here. “Much water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough,” the court said, warning that failure to comply could lead to contempt action. The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the senior officials concerned to be present at the next hearing on Monday if Delhi did not receive its full share of oxygen by Saturday night. “We direct the central government to ensure that the NCT of Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490MT (metric tonnes) positively today by whatever means,” the court said during a four-hour special hearing on a holiday on the oxygen crisis and other Covid issues Delhi is grappling with. “Considering the fact that Delhi is not an industrial state and does not have availability of cryogenic tankers of its own... it falls upon the central government to arrange the tankers as well so that the allocation made to Delhi could be fulfilled, lest it remain only a paper allocation.” The bench noted that since April 20, Delhi had not received its full quota of oxygen, which was 480 tonnes to begin with but was later raised to 490 tonnes. “We may even consider initiating contempt proceedings in case of non-compliance. Amit Mahajan (the Centre’s standing counsel in Delhi High Court) shall ensure the communication of this order to the officers concerned forthwith,” the bench said. The court rejected additional solicitor-general Chetan Sharma’s request to defer its order till May 3 or at least by half an hour, especially the warning about initiating contempt proceedings. “You (the Centre) made an allocation, you fulfil it. Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi? Enough is enough now. Who is asking for a gram more of oxygen than is allocated? If you cannot supply, do not supply. We will see your explanation on Monday,” the bench said. “This is a new way of arguing — telling us, ‘Do not do this, do not do that’. We do not appreciate it. We know what to do.” Sharma said solicitor-general Tushar Mehta would inform the court on Monday about the oxygen allocation and supply to Delhi. The court, however, said the subject that Mehta would be informing the bench about was an increase in the oxygen allocation to Delhi. “We have passed the order. You comply with the order,” Justice Sanghi said and logged off from the proceedings. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, had earlier told the court that several suppliers — Linde, INOX and Air Liquide — were either not supplying the oxygen they were supposed to or were providing it in smaller amounts. The court directed the lawyers of these suppliers to be present at Monday’s hearing. It asked the Centre why the four cryogenic tankers meant for Delhi that the Rajasthan government had held up had not been released despite the court’s earlier orders. It sought a compliance report on Monday. When the Centre’s counsel urged the court to seek an explanation from the Rajasthan government, the bench said: “This is the Centre’s problem. The SG (solicitor-general) made a statement before us (on April 26, assuring release of the tankers). Why should we call the state of Rajasthan? “Those four tankers or something in their place has to come. What is the sanctity of these statements?” The bench directed the Delhi government to seek help from the armed forces in getting oxygen and enhancing the Covid infrastructure. The bench asked Mehra why nothing had been done till now despite the court having asked the Delhi government to seek army help two to three days ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Covid: Daily infections cross 4 lakh ||India on Saturday recorded for the first time over 400,000 new Covid-19 infections that health experts say portend greater pressure on healthcare systems already overwhelmed by patients and more daily deaths in the weeks to come. The 401,993 new lab-confirmed cases detected over the previous 24 hours have raised the number of active patients to over 3.26 million, or thrice the peak count of active patients during the previous wave last September. Health authorities also documented 3,523 Covid-19 deaths — about 146 deaths every hour — through Friday and up to 8am on Saturday, raising the death toll to 211,853, the fourth highest in the world after 576,000 in the US, 404,000 in Brazil and 217,000 in Mexico. An infectious disease specialist said the overnight addition of 400,000-plus cases could translate into an extra demand for 40,000 hospital beds in the coming days, assuming 10 per cent of patients advance into moderate or severe disease that requires hospital care. At the current scale of the epidemic, even if only 5 per cent of the patients need oxygen, the demand for oxygen-supported beds would increase by 20,000 every day across the country, said another physician. While hospitals in several cities, including Delhi, have reported oxygen shortages amid the influx of patients, doctors say the demand for oxygen is also likely to rise in smaller towns with weaker health infrastructure if the epidemic grows in these places. “The capacity to detect falling oxygen levels in patients early in rural areas and to initiate oxygen therapy will be critical,” said Oommen John, a physician and research fellow with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, an independent research organisation. The infectious disease specialist said the daily death counts could rise in the coming days as there was usually a two-to-three-week lag between cohorts of new cases and deaths among them. The Centre has allocated 16.25 million Covishield doses and 5 million Covaxin doses to the states till May 15, free of cost under the “Government of India” channel, to be used on people aged 45 or older. Bengal will receive 995,300 Covishield doses and 327,980 Covaxin doses, the Union health ministry said, releasing the allocations to each state over the next fortnight. About 150,000 doses of Russia’s Sputnik V, the third Covid-19 vaccine approved for use in India, arrived in the country on Saturday, the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories announced. Under the campaign’s new phase that started on Saturday, states and private hospitals may inoculate people aged between 18 and 45 years by procuring doses on their own from vaccine makers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Rivals Left and Congress see victory||The ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition United Democratic Front in Kerala are both confident of walking away with the laurels when the Assembly election votes are counted on Sunday. While the LDF is banking mainly on its performance on various fronts and the widespread appreciation of its handling of several crises, including the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress-led UDF has little doubt that the people have voted for change. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has time and again said he is sure the LDF will get a historic second consecutive term by bucking the 40-year cycle of Kerala alternating between the two main players. “I have full faith in the people. That’s why I am saying so. We don’t need to talk about this when we can wait for a day,” Vijayan had told his daily media conference on Friday when he was asked about the exit polls giving the LDF another term in office. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan backed the exit polls, some of which gave the alliance more than the 91 seats it had won in 2016. The Kerala Assembly has 140 seats. “Last time the Kerala Congress (Mani) was with the UDF. This time they are with us. That’s why I feel the exit polls would prove to be correct,” he said. The most prominent faction of the Kerala Congress led by Jose K. Mani joined the LDF in October 2020 after being sidelined by the UDF. The party is expected to do well in central Kerala districts, including Kottayam and Idukki. But Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had no doubt that the UDF was coming to power. “The chief minister is exhibiting false confidence. We will get a clear mandate,” he said, rubbishing the exit polls that have predicted otherwise. “We won 19 seats in the Lok Sabha polls (2019) by overturning all exit polls,” Chennithala said, referring to its stellar show when the LDF had managed just one seat. While LDF sources said they were confident of winning at least 85 seats to retain power, UDF insiders were sure of winning 74 seats — three more than simple majority. A Congress leader, who requested anonymity, attributed the confidence to “booth-level” inputs that suggested that the party was expecting 30 seats in Malabar (north Kerala districts), 32 in central Kerala and 12 in south Kerala. The second largest UDF partner, the Indian Union Muslim League, a towering presence in the Malabar districts of Malappuram and Kozhikode, is sure of winning 20 of the 27 seats it contested. Party national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, who quit from the Lok Sabha to contest the Vengara Assembly seat, said his internal survey projected a UDF win. “These (exit poll) surveys are basically to confuse our agents who man counting centres. We have clearly told them to stay confident,” he said. The BJP, which made its Assembly debut by winning the Nemom seat in 2016, is confident of winning more than five seats. Although its state president K. Surendran has continuously bragged of bagging at least 35 seats, he has since scaled down his prediction. “From now on, no one can ignore the BJP in Kerala as the NDA will be a major force in the Assembly,” he said on the eve of counting. Apart from Nemom, Konni and Manjeshwar — Surendran contested from the latter two — the BJP expects to do well in Palakkad where it fielded “Metroman” E. Sreedharan, Vattiyoorkavu and Kazhakootam in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode North. The BJP had deployed central minister Prahlad Joshi and Karnataka deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan to supervise the campaign that saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath pitching for the party in the state that has so far rejected its brand of politics. A failure to impress the central leadership could mean trouble for Surendran and his team. The LDF has been banking heavily on its performance and the handling of crises such as two successive years of Nipah outbreaks, two years of devastating floods, and the two waves of Covid-19 when it managed to crush the curve in the first and kept the death rate one of the lowest anywhere in the world. But what has come to haunt the LDF is scams, including a gold smuggling case in which the chief minister’s former secretary M. Sivasankar was arrested. While Sivasankar has since been granted bail, the Opposition had made it a major poll plank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
