03-05-2021||India||Central Vista Project: Amid Covid crisis, centre sets deadline for completion of PM’s residence||The construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious Central Vista project will be completed by December 2022, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has informed a government-appointed expert panel, which has given its nod to the project. The CPWD, which is the project developer, informed the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) that the expansion of the Parliament building and the construction of a new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and the prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022. The Ministry of Environment has already granted the clearance for the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is part of the Rs-13,450 crore Central Vista Redevelopment Project. At a meeting held last month, the EAC recommended for the environmental clearance for the redevelopment of the Common Central Secretariat buildings and the prime minister's residence. “The EAC, based on the information submitted and clarifications provided by the project proponent and detailed discussions held on all the issues, recommended granting environmental clearance to the project,” the minutes of the meeting said. The panel took note of the CPWD’s submission that the Common Central Secretariat will consolidate all ministries and improve the productivity and the efficiency of the administration. According to the CPWD, the Common Central Secretariat buildings will be constructed by May 2023. It informed that the Central Conference Centre, which is expected to be ready by December 2026, will cater to the conferencing needs and will also be connected by a people mover to the Delhi Metro. “Modern and secure residential facilities for the Vice President and the Prime Minister will be equipped with all necessary spaces and infrastructure, including the Special Protection Group; Environmental: Landscape/greenbelt development, traffic decongestion, provision of STP, OWC, safety aspects including fire-fighting system, maximum use of treated waste water, well-designed network of storm water drains, rain water harvesting system etc.,” the EAC noted. While giving its nod, the panel directed the CPWD to ensure that an area for greenery is provided according to the details in the project document, which say the area under plantation or greenery will be 81,220 square metres. “As proposed, at least 4,918 trees will be maintained within the project site during the operation phase of the project,” it said. It also directed the CPWD to install two continuous online ambient air quality (AAQ) monitoring stations in the project area in consultation with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) before the demolition work starts. “Online monitoring should cover parameters e.g. PM10, PM2.5 along with NOx, SOx, covering upwind and downwind directions during the construction period,” it said. The committee also directed the project developer to draw a detailed traffic management-and-decongestion plan to ensure that the service of the roads near the project site may not get adversely impacted during the implementation of the project. “The plan should stipulate, inter alia, the path and appropriate time for the movement of vehicles to and from site. The plan shall be vetted by a concerned agency in the state government,” it said. It directed the CPWD to ensure that noise barriers or acoustics of adequate efficiency are provided at each construction site during the construction phase and at least 50 anti-smog guns and an equal number of anti-smog towers are installed to curb air pollution during the construction phase. The anti-smog towers shall be installed during the operation phase as proposed, it said. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country ‑ envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPWD, which is executing the project, had revised its estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||Govt waives IGST on import of Covid-relief material received as donation for free distribution||The government on Monday waived Integrated GST (IGST) till June 30 on import of Covid-relief material received as a donation, a move that will speed up customs clearances for such imports, including those by charitable organisations. The Finance Ministry in a statement said the government had received several representations from charitable organisations, corporate entities, and other associations outside India seeking exemption from IGST on the import of Covid-19 relief material donated/received free of cost from outside India for free distribution. “Accordingly, the Central Government has...granted exemption from IGST on import of such goods received free of cost for free distribution for covid relief," it said, adding the exemption would be applicable till June 30. This exemption will also cover goods already imported, but lying uncleared at the Customs ports. Following this decision, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj and CBIC Chairman Ajit Kumar interacted with Chief Secretaries of States/UTs and briefed them on the exemption from Customs duty and IGST on specified Covid relief material. The CBIC in a tweet said that during the meeting, state governments were also requested to set up Help Desks to facilitate donors and relief agencies and give wide publicity to the same. “Close coordination between States and Customs was emphasised to ensure that supplies reach the end-users without delay,” it added. State governments were also requested to immediately appoint Nodal Officers so that entities desirous of importing Covid relief material for free distribution may approach them for certification, it added. About the meeting with state officials, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet said: “Quick follow-up action in briefing Chief Secretaries of states on today's order of IGST exemption on specified #COVID19 relief materials (Customs duty waiver given earlier). Will speed up clearance for charitable organisations and others.” The government has already exempted customs duty on import of a host of Covid-related relief materials, including Remdesivir injection and its APIs, Inflammatory diagnostic (markers) kits, medical-grade oxygen, oxygen therapy-related equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cryogenic transport tanks, etc, and Covid vaccines. The IGST exemption given on Monday will be subject to nodal authorities, appointed by the state governments, authorising any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such relief material. The said goods can be imported free of cost by a state government or, any entity/ relief agency/ statutory body, authorised in this regard for free distribution anywhere in India. The importer shall before clearance of goods from Customs produce a certificate from the said nodal authorities that goods are meant for free distribution for Covid relief. After imports, the importer shall produce, to the Deputy or Assistant Commissioner of Customs at the port within six months from the date of importation or within such extended period not exceeding nine months, a statement containing details of goods imported and distributed free of cost. This statement shall be certified by the said nodal authority of the state government. “This exemption shall thus enable import of the Covid relief supply imported free of cost for free distribution without payment of IGST (up to the 30th June 2021). As customs duty is already exempt, these imports will not attract any customs duty or IGST,” the ministry added. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co Partner Rajat Bose said this is a much-needed respite provided by the central government as IGST is a cost for such organisations who are helping people with the free distribution of essential medicines and medical equipment for battling the virus. “The Central Government should, however, go a step further and reduce the GST on local supplies of such items, while at the same time allowing input tax credit as well which will result in considerably reducing the cost of such items procured locally,” Bose added. India’s single day COVID infections had crossed a record 4 lakh mark last week. On Monday, 3.68 lakh new infections and 3,417 deaths were reported. Last week, the government slashed the IGST rate on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use to 12 per cent, from 28 per cent, for two months till June 30. Under Goods and Services Tax (GST), the tax levied on consumption of goods or rendering of service is split 50:50 between the Centre and the state. Such tax is known as Central-GST or CGST and State-GST or SGST. On inter-state movement of goods as well as imports, an Integrated-GST or IGST is levied, which accrues to the Centre. The amount paid as IGST can be utilised by businesses for claiming credit while making CGST or SGST payments at the time of actual sale. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said: “Government has rightly come up with full IGST relief on import of Covid related relief material including oxygen concentrators, generators, cylinders and Covid medicines by the state government and its authorised agencies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||Oxygen Express with 85 MT LMO leaves from Gujarat for Gurugram||An ‘Oxygen Express’ train carrying 85.23 tons of liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa near Jamnagar in Gujarat for Gurugram in Haryana on Monday, said Western Railway officials. The LMO is to be supplied to hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas, all battling a severe surge in coronavirus cases and a resultant spike in demand for vital gas. “A Ro-Ro (roll on roll off) service carrying four tankers loaded with liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa in Gujarat at 6:37 am on May 3 and will reach Gurugram in Haryana in the morning of May 4. The Oxygen Express, carrying 85.23 tonnes of LMO in four tankers, will traverse 1,088 kilometres to reach its destination,” a WR release informed. “These oxygen tankers will be used in COVID hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas. This is the second Oxygen Express train of WR. The LMO has been supplied by Reliance Industries in Jamnagar,” the release added. On April 25, a WR service left from Hapa to Kalamboli in Maharashtra with 44 tons of LMO. The release said, till May 2, Railways had delivered over 1,094 metric tonnes (MT) LMO to Maharashtra (174 MT), Uttar Pradesh (430.51 MT), Madhya Pradesh (156.96 MT), Delhi (190 MT), Haryana (79 MT) and Telangana (63.6 MT).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre postpones NEET-PG, doctors and interns to help fight pandemic||Seeking to augment human resources deployed in fighting Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved a number of measures, including postponing the NEET-PG for at least four months to make a large number of qualified doctors available for pandemic duty and pressing into service medical interns. The PMO said in a statement on Monday that the services of final year MBBS students can also be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation under the faculty's supervision. Medical interns will work under the supervision of their faculty. This will reduce the workload on the existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and boost the efforts of triaging, it said. It added that B.Sc. or GNM qualified nurses may be utilised in full-time Covid nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses. Those providing services in Covid management will be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments after they complete a minimum of 100 days of duty, the PMO said. The medical students and professionals to be engaged in Covid related work will be suitably vaccinated, it said. All such professionals who sign up for minimum 100 days of duty and complete it successfully will also be given the Prime Minister's Distinguished Covid National Service Samman from the government of India. They will also be covered under the government's insurance scheme for health workers engaged in fighting Covid-19. The statement said the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for Post-Graduation (NEET-PG) will be postponed for at least four months, and the exam will not be held before August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||Now, 24 patients die in Karnataka hospital due to oxygen shortage||As many as 24 patients including 23 suffering from COVID-19 died in Karnataka's Chamarajanagar due to alleged oxygen shortage in the district hospital in the last 24 hours, officials said. A pall of gloom descended on the Chamarajanagar district hospital as the grieving kin of the deceased gathered after hearing the news. "My boy had recovered 75%. If there had been an oxygen cylinder he could have been saved," ndtv.com quoted Lokesh, a kin of one of the deceased as saying. Another such relative, Rajanna, said he received a distress call from his brother at midnight. "He called me around 12 o'clock saying there was no oxygen. Please see what you can do. When we came here immediately, they didn't allow any of us in. When we called again, there was no reply. That meant he was gone. He died because of lack of oxygen". Family members of the dead also staged a demonstration at the hospital and alleged there was a shorten of oxygen and raised slogans. Chamarajanagar district in-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is also the Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said he has ordered a death audit report from the district administration into the incident. He, however, maintained that all the deaths did not occur due to oxygen shortage. "Its not appropriate to say that all the 24 deaths happened due to oxygen shortage. These deaths had happened from Sunday morning to this morning. The oxygen shortage happened in the wee hours of Monday -- from 12.30 AM to 2.30 AM," Kumar told reporters here. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has appointed IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad to investigate into the matter. The report into the deaths has to be submitted to the government within three days. State Home Minister Basavaraja Bommai, meanwhile, has asked the Director General & Inspector General of Police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood to investigate the matter and submit a comprehensive report for further action. Suresh Kumar said the death audit report would detail what these patients were suffering from, whether they had any comorbidities and in which state they were brought to the hospital. "All the people who died may not have died due to oxygen shortage," he added. According to him, there is a stock of 6,000 litres of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) but there was a need for oxygen cylinders. "The cylinders were supposed to come from Mysuru but there was some glitch," Kumar said. He also said he has explained the situation to the Chief Secretary of the State, personal secretary to the Chief Minister and the Additional Director General of Police Pratap Reddy, who is in charge of oxygen supply in the state. "I have also told the officials to find a permanent solution for the supply of oxygen in Chamarajanagar district. There indeed is a problem in Mysuru but that should not hinder the supply of oxygen from Mysuru to Chamarajanagar and Mandya," Suresh Kumar added. Expressing his sorrow over the death of 24 people, the Minister said he would be rushing to Chamarajanagar to take stock of the situation. Congress came down hard on the Yediyurappa govt over its handling of the crisis after the news broke. Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet asked, "Died or killed?" The All India Congress Committee general secretary and Karnataka in-charge, Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded the arrest of the Health Minister. "This is murder by designed negligence of Yediyurappa Govt ! The Health Minister must resign. Will CM Yediyurappa ji own moral responsibility for the deaths?" Mr Surjewala tweeted. Congress Karnataka chief DK Shivakumar said the government is only interested in publicity and does not take any responsibility. Several hospitals across the country have been reporting a shortage of oxygen, with many patients losing lives due to this. Karnataka reported 37,733 fresh COVID-19 cases, 21,149 recoveries, and 217 deaths in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,21,436 with 11,64,398 recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||EC plea on media too far fetched, says SC||The Supreme Court Monday termed as too far fetched the poll panel's plea for restraining media from reporting remarks in court proceedings and came out in support of high courts saying it does not want to demoralise them as they are vital pillars of democracy. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah assured the Election Commission that the high court's remarks were not meant to run down the poll panel and it will try to balance the rights of two constitutional bodies - the HC and the EC - in its order. The apex court reserved the order on the appeal of the Election Commission against Madras High Court's critical remarks holding it responsible for the surge in COVID-19 cases in the country and fastening its responsible officials with the murder charges. The bench said it would pronounce the order "expeditiously". Media should be able to report everything also to create accountability and the dialogue in court is often to create an umbrella of discussion, the bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing. The media is an important and powerful watchdog in democracy and it cannot be stopped from reporting discussions in higher courts, it said. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the poll panel, submitted that COVID-19 management does not come under the EC's purview and after 20 days of polls in Tamil Nadu, the high court said it should be charged with murder. There was a continuous debate in media over the high court remarks on murder charges against the poll panel, he said, adding that somewhere a line has to drawn. The apex court, however, asked EC to take the observations of the high court in the right spirit and said, "You have done a good job". "We will take into account EC's grievance and to the best of our abilities, try to balance between rights of the poll panel and high courts," the bench said. The top court told Dwivedi that Madras High Court's effort was not to run down the EC as an institution. The Election Commission had moved the top court on Saturday challenging the critical observations made by the Madras High Court holding it responsible for a surge in COVID-19 cases in the country, saying the remarks were "uncalled for, blatant and disparaging". The high court had, on April 26, castigated the EC for the surge in COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. The poll panel allowing political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings had led to the surge in COVID cases, the court had observed. The EC's appeal against these remarks was trashed by the division bench of the high court on April 30, leading the poll watchdog to approach the top court. The division bench of the high court, on April 26, made the stinging observation on a plea moved by Tamil Nadu's Transport Minister MR Vijayabaskar, who was the AIADMK candidate from Karur in the April 6 Assembly polls, seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to ensure a fair counting of votes on May 2 in his constituency by taking effective steps and ensuring proper arrangements while following the COVID-19 protocols. Since a total of 77 candidates were in the fray in Karur, it would be very difficult to accommodate their agents in the counting hall. It may affect the observance of the protocols, the petitioner had alleged. When the EC's counsel told the judges that all necessary steps were being taken, the bench shot back, saying by allowing the political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings, it (commission) had paved the way for a resurgence of the deadly virus. Irked over the submission made by the EC's counsel that all precautionary measures would be taken at the counting centres, the chief justice replied that the poll panel must be "singularly" held responsible for the sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the country. The bench had even said that EC officials may be booked under murder charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||Pfizer seeks expedited nod for Covid vaccine in India ||Pfizer is in discussions with the Indian government for an expedited approval pathway to make Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine available in the country, its chief Albert Bourla said on Monday, while stating that the firm is donating medicines worth USD 70 million (over Rs 510 crore) for treatment of COVID-19 patients in India. "We are deeply concerned by the critical COVID-19 situation in India, and our hearts go out to you, your loved ones and all the people of India," he said in a mail sent to Pfizer India employees that he posted on linked.in. "Pfizer is committed to being a partner in India's fight against this disease and is quickly working to mobilise the largest humanitarian relief effort in the company's history," he added. "Right now, Pfizer colleagues at distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia are hard at work rushing shipments of Pfizer medicines that the Government of India has identified as part of its COVID treatment protocol," Bourla said. Pfizer is donating these medicines to help make sure that every COVID-19 patient in every public hospital across the country can have access to company's medicines they need free of charge, he added. "These medicines, valued at more than USD 70 million, will be made available immediately, and we will work closely with the government and our NGO partners to get them to where they are needed most," Bourla said. This effort, in combination with Pfizer Foundation funding that supports humanitarian organisations providing essential and life-saving equipment to India, such as ventilators, oxygen concentrators and consumables, is our most comprehensive humanitarian relief response ever, he added. He also said that the company is aware that access to vaccines is critical to ending this pandemic. "Unfortunately, our vaccine is not registered in India although our application was submitted months ago. We are currently discussing with the Indian government an expedited approval pathway to make our Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine available for use in the country," Bourla said. Pfizer stands in solidarity with all those currently affected by COVID-19 in India and around the world and will continue to do everything possible to provide assistance, he added. "As we work to meet the public health need and to be a partner with the Government of India to establish a path forward for our vaccine, please know you and your loved ones are foremost in our thoughts and prayers," Bourla said. Earlier in April, Pfizer said that it had offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government immunisation programme in India. "Pfizer remains committed to continuing our engagement with the government towards making the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine available for use in the government's immunisation programme in the country," the company had said in April in email response to PTI. The Indian government last month allowed emergency use approval of the imported vaccines in India which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), European Medicines Agency (EMA), UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (UK MHRA), Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency (PMDA) Japan or which are listed in WHO (emergency use listing).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
03-05-2021||India||SC directs Centre to prepare buffer stock of oxygen for use in emergencies||The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes in collaboration with states and decentralise the location of the stocks so that it is immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted. A three-judge bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days and replenished on a day-to-day basis, in addition to the existing allocation of medical oxygen supply to the states. "We direct the central government in collaboration with the states to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen to be used for emergency purposes to ensure supply lines continue to function even in unforeseen circumstances. The location of the emergency stocks shall be decentralised so as to be immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted to any hospital for any reason," the bench said. "The emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days. The replenishment of the emergency stocks will also be monitored on a real-time basis through the virtual control room in active consultation with each state/UT. This is in addition to the day to day allocations," it added. Noting that the situation on the ground in Delhi is heart-rending, the top court also directed the Centre to ensure that the deficit in the supply of oxygen to the national capital is rectified before May 3 midnight. It said lives of citizens cannot be put in jeopardy in the battle of shifting responsibility of supply of oxygen. "The protection of the lives of citizens is paramount in times of a national crisis and the responsibility falls on both the central government and the GNCTD to cooperate with each other to ensure that all possible measures are taken to resolve the situation," the bench also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat said. On the issue of treatment in hospitals, the top court directed the Centre to formulate within two weeks a national policy on admissions to hospitals in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. "Till the formulation of such a policy by the central government, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any state/UT for lack of local residential proof of that state/UT or even in the absence of identity proof," the bench said. It also directed the Centre and the state governments to notify that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking help on any platform will attract coercive action. "The central government and state governments shall notify all chief secretaries, directors-general of police, commissioners of police that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking/delivering help on any platform will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction by this court. "The registrar (judicial) is also directed to place a copy of this order before all district magistrates in the country," it said in an order uploaded on the SC website late on Sunday night. The top court also directed the Centre to revisit its initiatives and protocols, including the availability of oxygen, availability and pricing of vaccines, and availability of essential drugs at affordable prices. It asked senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora, appointed as amicus curiae, to collate and compile these suggestions submitted by various parties. The matter is listed for the next hearing on May 10. The directions were passed in a suo motu case for ensuring essential supplies and services during the COVID-19 pandemic. The bench has taken up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and in the near future, how the government intends to allocate it to "critically affected" states and its monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. The Supreme Court had earlier made clear that any attempt to clamp down on the free flow of information on social media, including a call for help from people, would be treated as contempt of the court. "There should be free flow of information; we should hear voices of citizens. This is a national crisis. There should not be any presumption that the grievances raised on the Internet are always false. Let a strong message be sent to all the DGPs that there should not be any kind of clampdown," the bench had said while reserving its order on April 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||India logs over 3.68 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,417 casualties in a day||The daily COVID-19 cases in India showed a slight dip with 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, taking the total tally of cases to 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. While the country recorded 4,01,993 new cases on May 1, it had registered 3,92,488 fresh cases on May 2. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,13,642 comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 81.77 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 62,93,003, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 29,16,47,037 samples have been tested up to May 2 with 15,04,698 samples being tested on Sunday. The 3,417 new fatalities include 669 from Maharashtra, 407 from Delhi, 288 from Uttar Pradesh, 217 from Karnataka, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 159 from Rajasthan, 157 from Punjab, 153 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 145 from Haryana and 115 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,18,959 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 70,284 from Maharashtra, 16,966 from Delhi, 16,011 from Karnataka, 14,346 from Tamil Nadu, 13,162 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,539 from West Bengal, 9,317 from Punjab and 9,009 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||CBSE limits Class X marks to scores students obtained in the past three years||The marks that CBSE schools award to Class X students in any subject this session, in the absence of board exams, will be limited by the scores its students obtained in the board exams of the past three years. First, if the school’s students have scored an overall average of 71, 74 and 72 per cent in the last three board exams, say, then the year in which they scored the highest overall average of 74 will be the “reference year” for awarding this year’s marks, the CBSE has decreed. Next, the average marks the school’s students obtained in each subject in the year in which their overall average was 74 will be considered. This year’s students cannot be awarded marks in any subject that is more than two per cent higher or lower than the average score their peers scored in that subject in the reference year. Suppose, the school’s students had secured an average of 78 in English in the year in which their overall average score was 74. Then, this year, the school cannot award its students more than 80 or less than 76 in English. Academics suggested that such a “moderation” policy would hurt the best students on the pretext of ensuring “reasonably reliable, unbiased and fair” marking. Since the CBSE has cancelled the Class X board exams citing the Covid resurgence, the schools will have to mark students under a policy that accords 20 per cent weight to internal assessment and 80 per cent to school-based exams. If a school’s students have not appeared in the boards before, the CBSE will provide the district, state and national averages of the last two years relating to schools of the same type, that is, KVS schools for a KVS school or private schools for a private school. The highest overall average score will determine the reference year. Of the 80 per cent weight accorded to the school-based exams, 10 per cent weight will be accorded to periodic tests, 30 per cent to the half-yearly test and 40 per cent to the pre-board exam.If a school has not held any internal exams this academic year, it can do so now online or offline, the CBSE has said. Jitendra Sharma, a retired professor who taught at the teacher training institute in Jaipur, said the new system of average-based marking would hurt the better students. “Each student is different and each batch is different,” he said. The CBSE has asked the schools to send the marks by June 5. The results will be announced by June 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Jaishankar fumes on Youth Congress giving away 'unsolicited' oxygen cylinders to the Philippine embassy||The Narendra Modi government on Sunday accused the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) of giving away “unsolicited” oxygen cylinders to the Philippine embassy for “cheap publicity”, only to end up with egg on its face when the New Zealand high commission made a public request for oxygen to the IYC — the youth wing of the Congress. “@sosiyc @srinivasiyc Could you please help with oxygen cylinder urgently at New Zealand High Commission? Thank You,” the appeal from the verified Twitter handle of the New Zealand mission said, exactly one minute after external affairs minister S. Jaishankar had berated the Congress. The MEA later took to Twitter to say it was “responding to the medical demands” of embassies and high commissions and added: “Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen.” Several members of the diplomatic corps are said to have tested positive. @sosiyc and @srinivasiyc — the Twitter handles of the relief campaign of the IYC and the Congress youth wing president B.V. Srinivas, respectively — are the most tagged in appeals for help for Covid patients. But to have a foreign embassy also reach out to the Opposition party rather than the government appeared to have got Jaishankar’s goat. “MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling. Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does,’’ Jaishankar tweeted on Sunday morning, responding to Congress leader Jairam Ramesh who had said he was “stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies” and asked if the MEA was sleeping. Jaishankar tweeted at 9.14am and the New Zealand high commission’s appeal to the IYC came at 9.15am. This was soon deleted and a fresh tweet posted at 10.07am, which said: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.” There had been no other appeal for oxygen over the past three days on the mission’s verified Twitter handle. Subsequently, Srinvas tweeted a video of his team delivering cylinders to the mission and said: “New Zealand high commission opened gates of the embassy and accepted cylinders. Also, they thanked the #SOSIYC team for this quick relief as patient inside embassy was critically ill.’’ The Youth Congress also replied to Jaishankar from its handle @IYC, tweeting: “Please excuse us for the delayed response, actually we were busy fulfilling a request at the New Zealand Embassy.” It continued: “We got a request for an urgent requirement of Oxygen Cylinders for 2 Covid patients in Philippines Embassy. The Cylinders were delivered at the embassy on a much solicited request. Post delivery embassy thanked us on Facebook. All screenshots attached with names and number masked.” Srinivas told The Telegraph the Youth Congress had got a request over phone for cylinders for the Philippines embassy. “Would an embassy in the most secure zone of the capital open its gates for us in the night if there was no request for cylinders on the premises? We got several calls for cylinders and we delivered….” The Opposition leaders on Sunday asked the Modi government to focus on the pandemic and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals amid reports of shortages from several states leading to the deaths of  many patients, our special correspondent reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Adityanath hides spiralling Covid deaths by covering up crematories and banning pictures||After denying any oxygen shortage, the Yogi Adityanath government is focusing on hiding the spiralling Covid deaths by covering up crematories and banning pictures of the burning pyres that are now circulating worldwide. High plastic and cloth banners have been put up all along the pavement railings on the only open side of Rajghat, the lone cremation ground in the chief minister’s hometown of Gorakhpur, blocking view of the pyres and the long queues of bodies. Citing religious sanctity, the banners criminalise the shooting of photos or videos of the crematory. “The last rites of the dead are going on according to Hindu customs. Please don’t do photography/ videography. It’s a punishable offence,” the banners say. “No law says that taking pictures of a cremation ground is a crime,” Sunil Sharma, a Lucknow-based lawyer, said. “Many feature films are shot on cremation grounds amid real cremations. Perhaps the government will now book whoever takes pictures of cremations on the charge of disturbing law and order.” Pictures of cremation grounds where burning pyres have taken up almost every inch of space have generated bad global publicity for Indian authorities’ handling of the second wave of the Covid outbreak. In mid-April, the Adityanath government had covered up both of Lucknow’s crematories, Baikunth Dham and Gullala Ghat, by fencing them with iron sheets. Rajghat, which has an electric incinerator and about two dozen temporary platforms for pyres, already has brick walls on three sides. An official from the Gorakhpur Nagar Nigam, the municipal authority that has put up the banners, said: “We received an order to cover up the area and did so. We now receive up to 45 bodies a day, up from 6 or 7 during the normal times earlier. There isn’t enough firewood; so queues form.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Bengal polls 2021: Prashant Kishor feted as man of the moment||Prashant Kishor, Mamata Bannerji’s chief political strategist, had put his career on the line with a public dare made last December that the BJP would struggle to cross two digits in the Bengal assembly. The BJP, he told The Telegraph, in March, had become a “formidable force” in Bengal, but the Trinamul would hold its ground. “Khela hobey, we are ready, game on!” he had said. Today, amidst the Trinmul’s resounding victory, Kishor came to be feted by many as man of the moment. He spoke exclusively to us as the trends became clear. Excerpts: Q: You had predicted this, but not many believed you. Tell us how this happened. A: I was always convinced we would win, and win handsomely, I don’t know why folks didn’t see it or believe me. Propaganda cannot make you win an election. Partly this is the result of the sheer arrogance of the BJP, they were flying sky high, they missed the ground. I told you earlier, the BJP enters a battle already declaring itself a victor, they make a lot of noise. Q: And very often they make the noise and win. A: Yes, but when you have someone who is serious about giving them a fight, this is what happens. Mamata Bannerji said, fine we are here, come, we will fight, khela hobey. It is the intent. She suffered a rude shock in 2019, but she took it seriously. I remember I had just lost my father when she approached me. I told her the family is bereaved, I will take some time, but she was anxious and restless. She was calling me with a sense of urgency, telling me, “Jaldi aao, jaldi aao.” She knew she had to make urgent amends, that is how a genuine political leader responds. She wanted to fight. She does not make excuses, she looks for how best she can stay in the game. The BJP entirely missed out on how we responded after 2019, through various and extensive programmes of public outreach, through sustained campaigning and delivery, through consistently staying on the ground among the people. Q: You spoke of the Election Commission being partial … A: See this is not only about Bengal, this is about India and about the survival of democracy. Every democrat in India and every political party should be concerned about the role of the Election Commission and how partisan it can become, how it can bend and scrape. Their role in Bengal has been scandalous, they have behaved like an arm of the powers in Delhi. The way they were taking dictation was obvious to everyone. I will name just one factor: the BJP led a most communal campaign in Bengal, it was predicated on naked Hindutva, on Jai Shri Ram, on all sorts of religious symbolism and religious disaffection. What did the Election Commission do to stop that? Nothing. And that is a danger, a grave danger that will live beyond this election. People should wake up to this. Q: Would you say this has been your toughest challenge? A: It is tough to say toughest or not, but let me tell you it was not easy. The eventual numbers do not bear that out, our victory is huge, but the battle was intense and had to be fought at every level from the block up. Frankly, I did have my moments of doubt, especially when I saw media flying in and going back with reports of a BJP sweep. So many newspapers and channels were absolutely convinced the BJP would win hands down. But then I thought to myself, what have I been doing in Bengal for 15 months? Should I believe these people who have just spent a week or so here, or should I trust my instinct and work. The BJP made a narrative of important people leaving TMC, they projected the myth of a disintegrating party with huge anti-incumbency. They believed that narrative themselves, the media bought into it. What had happened, in reality, was that we had gone through a process of cleansing and actually had a new Trinamul. Nobody saw this or took it seriously. You see, the media can give you hype, it can work or the margins, it can make a noise for this one or that, but media cannot make you win or lose. Media is an amplifier at best, it is not the sound. The sound is on the ground, the sound is the people. They have spoken. Q: What does this mean for politics beyond Bengal? A: That’s a little too early to spell out. Q: But is this not going to resound beyond Bengal? You yourself told me a few weeks ago that the Bengal election was about whether India would remain a multi-party democracy or become a one-party state. A: Let us see where things go from here. What I can say for now that it has given voice and hope to those people who want to fight this danger called the BJP. There is a way to do it, that is what we have demonstrated in Bengal. If you are really serious about a political fight, you can do it, at least you can try. All those people who want the BJP defeated have a takeaway from Bengal, it is possible to defeat them. Have a will and have a strategy. Have the gut for a fight. Don’t make excuses. Some people go on saying we have no resources, we do not have media support, there is too much polarization. Polarisation is a bogey, absolute bogey. In no part of India have Hindus got polarized in a way that they themselves become the majority, not even in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the two strongholds of the BJP. You do not want to be with folks who make excuses, you want people who will get into the pit and fight, and fight seriously. Mamata Bannerji was prepared to do that from the very start, from when she got the shock of 2019. The results are there for everyone to see. Ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections 2021: DMK leads, rival saves face||The DMK-led front headed by M.K. Stalin swept the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections after 10 years, foiling the BJP’s attempt at religious polarisation, although the AIADMK put up a fight in its bid to retain power. “I thank all the voters and everyone in Tamil Nadu for mandating the DMK to rule for the sixth time,” Stalin, who won from Kolathur by nearly 69,000 votes, said in the evening. At 10.30pm, the DMK-led alliance — which includes the Congress, Left, IUML, MDMK, VCK, KDMK and a few smaller outfits — won or led from 156 of the state’s 234 seats. The DMK alone accounted for 134 seats, well past the majority mark of 118. The AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance won or led from 77 seats, with the AIADMK accounting for 67. The BJP led from 4 seats, looking set to reopen its account in the Tamil Nadu Assembly after 20 years. Actor-politician Kamal Haasan, leader of the Makkal Neethi Maiyam, lost to BJP women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan by a little over 1,000 votes from Coimbatore South. Star BJP candidate and actress Khushbu Sundar lost to the DMK’s Ezhilan from Chennai’s Thousand Lights constituency by 33,044 votes. DMK youth leader Udaynidhi Stalin won the Chepauk-Triplicane seat by 60,000-odd votes. From the AIADMK, outgoing chief minister E.K. Palaniswami won Edappadi by more than 60,000 votes while his outgoing deputy, O. Panneerselvam, led from Bodi. However, several AIADMK ministers lost. Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran, leader of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam which had broken away from the AIADMK, trailed from Kovilpatti. “The AIADMK’s announcement of several goodies in the last few months — including the 10.5 per cent sub-quota for the OBC Vanniyars within the 20 per cent Most Backward Classes quota — has helped it in the last lap after its crushing defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” CPM leader A. Soundararajan said. “Congratulations to Shri M.K. Stalin for the victory. People of Tamil Nadu have voted for change and we will, under your leadership, prove to be a confident step in that direction,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and RJD’s Lalu Prasad congratulated Stalin. “Congratulations to the DMK leader M.K. Stalin on his party’s win,” defence minister Rajnath Singh said. Total seats     234 Majority         118 Leads and wins DMK+           156 AIADMK+       77 Others             1   In neighbouring Puducherry, N. Rangasamy’s AINRC and ally BJP won 13 of the 22 seats declared till 10pm. The state has 30 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Left Front breaks 44-year trend of anti-incumbency||The Left Democratic Front in Kerala smashed a 44-year trend of anti-incumbency felling the ruling combine, sweeping the state elections and wresting the lone seat the BJP had won last time. The CPM-led alliance bettered its 2016 winning tally of 91 seats to bag 99 of the 140 seats, with the Congress-led United Democratic Front bagging the remaining 41. The BJP, which had opened its account in Kerala in 2016 with the victory of O. Rajagopal, was back to square one with V. Sivankutty of the LDF wresting the Nemom seat. The three-cornered fight for Nemom ended up in line with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s words: “We will close that account this time.” Vijayan retained his Dharmadam seat in Kannur district by a margin of 50,123 votes, a vast improvement over his 2016 winning margin of 36,905. “This is the people’s victory,” was how Vijayan described the win. “We had all along said we will win more seats (than in 2016) as we trust the people and the people trust us. This result validates that trust,” the chief minister said. “This election has once again made it clear that communalism has no place in Kerala,” Vijayan said, taking a swipe at the BJP that had leveraged on religious issues like women’s entry at the Sabarimala temple. But even Sabarimala could not save the BJP as its state president K. Surendran lost from both Manjeshwar and Konni, where the hill shrine is located. The BJP had deployed a battery of star campaigners, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and party president J.P. Nadda. Surendran blamed “Muslim consolidation” for the defeat even in Nemom. “Our assessment is that there has been widespread Muslim consolidation against us,” he said. The UDF put up a dismal show to end up with just 40 seats, 13 fewer than the 2016 tally, leaving the party’s state leadership in a quandary. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who retained his Haripad seat, said he would comment only after studying the results. “The Congress is the biggest political party in Kerala. We have seen defeats and victories. So the Congress cannot be wiped out with this defeat,” he added. Health minister K.K. Shailaja, who had won accolades for handling the Nipah outbreaks and the Covid-19 pandemic, won from Mattannur in Kannur district by 61,035 votes. “Metroman” E. Sreedharan, who had contested from Palakkad on a BJP ticket, lost. The 89-year-old retired technocrat who had declared himself as the possible chief minister if his party got a majority lost to Shafi Parambil of the Congress by 3,863 votes. Total seats           140 Majority                 71 Leads and wins CPM+                  99 Congress+           41 BJP                       0||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
