04-05-2021||India||You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not, Delhi HC blasts Centre ||The Centre's inability to supply adequate oxygen to Delhi came in for severe criticism on Tuesday with the Delhi High Court asking why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against it for failing to comply with its order on oxygen supply for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. "You can put your head in the sand like an ostrich, we will not," the high court told the central government, adding that the Supreme Court had already directed _ and now the high court was also saying _  that the Centre would have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. "You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don't know. Are you living in ivory towers?" the bench said. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also rejected the Centre's submission that Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in light of existing medical infrastructure. It said the Supreme Court's April 30 detailed order directed the central government to provide 700 MT of oxygen per day to Delhi and not just 490 MT. "We had told you contempt is the last thing on our mind but it is certainly in our mind and don't drive us to that last point. We mean business now. Enough is enough. Be clear on this. We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way you won't supply 700 MT. "There is a Supreme Court order and now we are also saying that you will have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. We would not hear anything except compliance," the bench observed. The bench, which heard the matter related to the oxygen crisis and other COVID-19 related issues that Delhi was grappling with for five hours, said, "We see grim reality everyday of people not able to secure oxygen or ICU beds in hospitals which have reduced beds due to the gas shortage. "We, therefore, direct the central government to show cause why contempt be not initiated for not only non-compliance of our earlier order as also of the order of the Supreme Court dated April 30. To answer the said notice, we direct the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra (senior Central government officers) tomorrow," it said. On the submission of ASG Chetan Sharma that the compliance affidavit of April 30 order would be filed in the Supreme Court by tomorrow morning, the bench said, "We fail to understand what good a compliance affidavit will be done when as a matter of fact 700 MT of oxygen is not delivered to Delhi. Even the earlier allocated 490 MT and revised 590 MT is not being delivered even for a single day." "It pains us that the aspect of supply of oxygen for treatment of COVID-19 patients in Delhi should be viewed in the way it has been done by the Centre," it said. It added that on one hand there was a need to augment capacities to meet the rising numbers, while on the other hand, the existing infrastructure was crumbling and available beds could not be put to use. After the court dictated its order, ASG Sharma said that he had taken down the order and it may be uploaded tomorrow morning only. To this, the bench said, "No, we will upload it today itself."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||May session of JEE-Mains postponed in view of second Covid wave||Engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains scheduled from May 24 to 28 has been postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation, according to the Ministry of Education's National Testing Agency (NTA). Earlier, the April edition of the exam was postponed following an exponential rise in coronavirus cases. "The JEE-Mains scheduled from May 24 to 28 are being postponed in view of the current pandemic situation," the NTA said in an order. The rescheduling of the April and May sessions will be done subsequently and "the registration for the May session will also be announced at a later stage", it said. From this year, the exam is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March. The next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per the policy, after the February, March, April and May sessions of JEE(Main)-2021, the ranks of candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of their four scores. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Bihar goes into lockdown mode till May 15 amid Covid surge||Lockdown was imposed in Bihar till May 15 amid a surge in COVID-19 cases with the state facing a positivity rate of around 10 per cent, officials said on Tuesday. The decision for the lockdown, which will come into effect on Wednesday, was taken at the meeting of the Crisis Management Group presided over by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, they said. Soon after the meeting, the chief minister announced the decision, following which Chief Secretary Tripurari Sharan along with senior police and administration officers held a press conference to announce the modalities. The chief secretary said that all government and private offices will remain closed during the period. However, essential services such as civil defence, electricity supply, water supply, fire services, veterinary work, postal and telecommunication will continue to operate. Hospitals, medical laboratories, ambulance services and other health-related outlets have been kept out of the ambit of the lockdown. Principal Secretary of Health, Pratyaya Amrit, clarified that the vaccination drive will continue during the lockdown. Banking, ATMs and insurance services have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown. Industrial and construction work, besides agricultural activities, e-commerce and courier services have also been exempted. Operations of print and electronic media have also been allowed during the period. Petrol pumps, LPG and outlets connected with retail services of petroleum products will also continue to operate. The shops dealing with grocery items and retail outlets dealing with vegetables, fruits, non-veg items, milk and PDS outlets will remain open from 7 am to 11 am daily during the lockdown, the chief secretary said. Schools, colleges and private coaching centres will remain completely shut during the lockdown, Sharan said, adding that no examination will be held during the period. Religious places will also remain closed during the period. Cinema halls, parks, gyms and hosting of other functions have been suspended during the lockdown. Though the movement of vehicles has been prohibited, public transport for the passengers heading to railway stations, airports, and bus terminuses will be allowed with 50 per cent sitting capacity, the chief secretary said. Restaurants and hotels will remain closed but home delivery has been allowed, he said, adding that similar is the norm for dhabas and eateries along the highways. Weddings are allowed with only 50 guests but the use of DJs and taking out 'barat' processions are prohibited. The chief secretary said an advance notice of three days has to be given to the local police station regarding weddings. For the performance of the last rites and 'shradh', not more than 20 people will be allowed. The chief secretary informed that all the districts have been ordered to organise community kitchens to feed the needy. He said the ration card holders will be given allotted foodgrains from PDS shops free in the month of May, the cost of which will be borne by the state government. He said the lockdown has been promulgated under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and those violating the orders will be punished accordingly. The Patna High Court had on Monday came down heavily on the state government over handling the second wave of the pandemic. It had asked Advocate General Lalit Kishore to talk to the chief minister on the urgent need of the lockdown. Bihar had reported 11,407 new COVID-19 cases on Monday and 82 more deaths. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Chaitanya Prasad told reporters that Nitish Kumar held a detailed discussion with deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, and Health Minister Mangal Pandey, among others on Monday night. The chief minister also crisscrossed the state capital for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation, he said. The health secretary said the state witnessed 10 per cent positivity rate over the last one week and the department will monitor whether this is coming down during the lockdown. He further said, the state government will launch a mass recruitment drive for hiring medicos and will conduct walk-in interviews to add to the strength of the doctors and paramedical staff. Regarding the availability of medical oxygen, Amrit said the state is procuring them from other states and the Centre has also assured to provide sufficient stock of medical oxygen in the next three-four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Fauci advises India to marshal all resources, including Army, to fight Covid||Terming the situation in India very desperate , America's top public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci has suggested the government marshal all its resources, including the armed forces, to immediately build makeshift field hospitals, and urged other countries to help with not only materials but also personnel. In an exclusive interview to PTI, Fauci, who is the Chief Medical Adviser to US President Joe Biden, also called for a nationwide lockdown, not necessarily for six months but for a few weeks to break the continuity and transmission of infection. Dr. Fauci's suggestions and dire assessment of India came as the number of new Covid infections in India officially passed 2 crore, almost double the number three months ago. Of these more than 2,20,000 people have died, according to official figures. In contrast, the United States has recorded 3.2 crore cases and 5,77,000 deaths in a population that's one-fourth of India's 120 crore since the pandemic began. Still, because of India's inadequate healthcare infrastructure, weaker economy and lower standard of living, the suffering has been magnified, especially in the second wave that has led to a huge shortage of oxygen and hospital ICU beds. The government says the infection rates have consistently dropped since April 30, when it recorded more than 400,000 cases. It reported over 355,000 cases on Tuesday. Given the fact that India is under such terrible stress right now with the extent of the outbreak, the rest of the world should pitch in to help, similar to what the United States is doing, he said. The world can help by supplying India with materials, and perhaps even personnel, but certainly materials that they need to adequately address it (the pandemic), he said. The 80-year-old physician and immunologist, who serves as the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, on Monday also recommend mass vaccination to arrest the current spread of the deadly disease across India. "Right now, they should start getting as many people vaccinated as they possibly can, with both the vaccines that they developed themselves in India as well as supplies of vaccines that they may be able to procure from other suppliers, be that the United States, be that Russia whatever country is willing whenever companies are willing to supply vaccine," Fauci said. However, getting someone "vaccinated now" does not solve today's problem, he noted, adding that it helps prevent a problem several weeks from now. The more immediate problem is how to care for and treat the thousands who are thronging overflowing hospitals across the country every day, in desperate need of oxygen and basic treatment. It is quite obvious to everyone that the situation in India is extremely serious," said Fauci, who is considered one of the world's top infectious disease specialists. "When you have so many people getting infected the lack of the capability to take adequate care of everyone; when you have shortages of hospital beds and oxygen and shortages of supplies, that really becomes a very desperate situation. Which is the reason why we feel it's important for the rest of the world to help out, to the extent they can," he said. Fauci, who has been keeping a close tab on the worst health crisis in India, said there are certain things that India can do immediately, mid-term and long-term basis. He recommended taking the help of the country's armed forces to immediately build makeshift field hospitals. "You will recall, last year when China had a very serious problem, they marshalled their resources to very, very rapidly build new hospitals, to be able to handle all the people who required hospitalisation," he said. Referring to media reports, he said there is a drastic shortage of hospital beds in India and people are being taken care of in makeshift arrangements. "So, it would be possible, perhaps, with the help of your own military, to put up field hospitals as you would do as if in a wartime setting, so that people who are sick and require a hospital bed, will have a hospital bed," he said. He also underlined the need for a countrywide lockdown for a few weeks to arrest the spread of the virus. A few days ago, I recommended and I believe at least parts of India are doing it, that you shut down the country in lockdown, he said. "Because other countries, including for example what China did last year, what Australia did when they had an outbreak, what New Zealand did, what other countries did is to completely lock down for a relatively limited period of time. You don't have to lock down for six months. You can lock down for a few weeks, Fauci suggested. He explained that when a lockdown in imposed, it definitely interferes with the dynamics of the viral outbreak and you could interfere with the continuity and the transmission of infection, the top immunologist noted, citing the experience gained by other countries. Responding to a question whether the current surge in infections in India posed a threat to other countries, Fauci said, "Well, I mean, obviously, when you have a massive amount of infection in one country there's always a risk of infections. "You want to be careful that that doesn't spread widely elsewhere," Fauci added. "We are very sorry that India is going through this very, very difficult time. And that's the reason why we know we are in great solidarity with them and trying to do whatever we can to help them," Fauci said, referring to the Biden administration rushing medical equipment and life-saving drugs to India to help it fight the pandemic. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut's Twitter account suspended permanently||Twitter has permanently suspended actor Kangana Ranaut's account for repeated violations of rules, specifically its "Hateful Conduct and Abusive Behaviour policy , the microblogging site said in a statement on Tuesday. The 34-year-old actor's handle @KanganaTeam now displays the message: account suspended. Ranaut, known for her often inflammatory tweets, posted several messages following the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress' win over the BJP in West Bengal and incidents of post-poll violence. Calling for President's Rule in the state, she also blamed Banerjee for the violence and called her unpublishable names. "We've been clear that we will take strong enforcement action on behavior that has the potential to lead to offline harm, a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement. "The referenced account has been permanently suspended for repeated violations of Twitter Rules specifically our Hateful Conduct policy and Abusive Behaviour policy. We enforce the Twitter Rules judiciously and impartially for everyone on our service," the spokesperson added. According to Twitter's Abusive Behaviour policy, "one may not engage in the targeted harassment of someone, or incite other people to do so or attempt to harass, intimidate, or silence someone else's voice". When an account is suspended permanently, the account holder is notified about the rules they have violated, the social media platform said citing the policy. On Monday, writer-lyricist Hussain Haidry had shared two tweets of the actor and urged people to report the account. If you are a blue tick account or with large following, I am not asking you to speak up against this. But please just quietly REPORT these two tweets. This is calling for mass violence. And directing it at Muslims, he wrote. Many social media users have called Ranaut out for spreading hatred. The actor also posted a video on Instagram where she termed the silence of the liberal international media on Bengal violence their "conspiracy against India" . Ranaut is also active on Facebook. Last year, Ranaut's sister Rangoli's account was suspended on the microblogging website. The actor became active on Twitter after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||India's total Covid tally crosses 2-crore mark||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's total COVID-19 infections had surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 after which it took 107 days to reach 1.25 crore on April 5. However, it only took 15 days for the cases to cross the 1.50 mark. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,47,133 comprising 17 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 81.91 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,66,13,292, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 29,33,10,779 samples have been tested up to May 3 with 16,63,742 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,449 new fatalities include 567 from Maharashtra, 448 from Delhi, 285 from Uttar Pradesh, 266 from Chhattisgarh, 239 from Karnataka, 155 from Punjab, 154 from Rajasthan, 140 each from Gujarat and Haryana, 129 from Jharkhand, 128 from Uttarakhand and 122 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,22,408 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 70,851 from Maharashtra, 17,414 from Delhi, 16,250 from Karnataka, 14,468 from Tamil Nadu, 13,447 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,637 from West Bengal, 9,472 from Punjab and 9,275 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Experts recommend 6-to-10-week lockdowns for hardest-hit districts||A 22-member expert group has recommended 6-to-10-week lockdowns in the districts hit hardest by the second Covid-19 wave, urging far longer closures than the 14-day “local containment” prescribed by the Centre. The group has called for the closure of all indoor public spaces barring those providing essential services, consultations with local community groups and measures to support the poor and vulnerable who are likely to bear the brunt of the closures. Global observations on lockdowns suggest that such closures need to be in place for 6 to 10 weeks for Covid-19 cases to fall significantly, The Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force has said in a report it has shared with the Centre’s Covid-19 advisers. Its recommendations include the closure of all offices, public buildings, indoor dining restaurants, shops, malls and places of worship in districts designated “hotspots” based on measures such as daily counts of new Covid-19 cases, the growth rates of these counts, and the proportion of critical-care beds occupied. The Union home ministry had, using guidelines from the health ministry, asked the states last week to identify “districts of concern” where the proportion of positive cases among those tested is 10 per cent or higher and where oxygen-supported or critical-care bed occupancy is 60 per cent or higher. The Centre has asked the states to identify geographical areas with clusters of cases and implement “local containment” measures to restrict people from intermingling for 14 days. Several states have introduced limited, short-term closures while some others are enforcing longer closures. The India Task Force has, however, called for “synchronised, coordinated” closures for 6 to 10 weeks to systematically bring down the new-case counts close to pre-second-wave levels in the hardest-hit areas. “We were not in favour of such closures or lockdowns some weeks back,” Chandrika Bahadur, who is with the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, New Delhi, and heads the India Task Force, told The Telegraph. “But the epidemic has evolved fast and we believe it is at a point where 6-to-10 week closures might be needed to help reduce new cases significantly in those parts of the country that are hotspots.” India’s epidemic, measured through the seven-day average of daily new cases, has ballooned nearly 24-fold over the past eight weeks — from 15,700 cases in early March to 373,000 in early May. The India Task Force has also proposed a complete ban on gatherings of more than 10 people at any given place. A health ministry official said the epidemic was showing “early signs of plateauing” in Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. But, the official said, it was continuing to grow in Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Punjab and Rajasthan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Jacinda Ardern says New Zealand high commission should have gone through proper channels for oxygen||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday confirmed that her country’s high commission in New Delhi had a “very unwell” local staff member on the premises when an SOS tweet for oxygen was posted to the Indian Youth Congress on Sunday. Ardern said the high commission should have gone through the proper channels for oxygen cylinders. Answering questions live on a television channel, Arden said: “Yes, you did see that there was a message that was put out. The high commission has apologised.… There are channels they should be going through for such matters but I should recognise that we do have a local staff member who’s within the compound, who has been very unwell. So that was the basis on which that call was made.” The tone and the transparent manner in which Ardern handled the issue was in sharp contrast to the bristling manner in which Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar, a retired diplomat who needs no lessons in diplomacy, fielded questions from the Opposition. Jaishankar had posted a few acerbic tweets in response to Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s question whether the external affairs ministry was sleeping after it emerged that the Philippines embassy had sought the Youth Congress’s help for oxygen before the New Zealand mission did so. The Youth Congress has been running a widely acclaimed network to help those in need of Covid medical aid. Jaishankar had referred to “cheap publicity” and said “MEA never fakes, we know who does” in the reply he tweeted to Ramesh. The Opposition is meant to ask tough questions, and the minister could have merely explained the position without escalating it into a nasty brawl that has drawn wide attention at a time India has cut a sorry figure worldwide over its Covid management. Although Jaishankar had confined his sharp tweets to the Philippines incident, the Indian external affairs ministry spokesperson had tweeted around two hours after the New Zealand episode that the officials concerned “are in continuous touch” with all high commissions and embassies. The ministry is “responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid. This includes facilitating their hospital treatment. Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen,” the MEA had tweeted against the backdrop of a claim by Jaishankar that the Youth Congress supply to the Philippines was “unsolicited” and the country had no Covid cases. Ramesh subsequently tagged to Jaishankar’s account purported tweets from the Youth Congress and the Philippines embassy that suggested the supply was not unsolicited. This newspaper could not verify the tweets with the Philippines embassy but they had not been denied till Monday evening. Ramesh then asked: “What say you now, Mr Minister?” To which, Jaishankar replied: “I’d say don’t waste oxygen, literally or metaphorically. From a MEA that never sleeps — good night.” A tweeter offered sage advice to the former top diplomat: “Stop this please, it’s beneath you and the office you represent.” Another was less diplomatic, if not downright merciless: “Please encourage the MEA to sleep regularly. The consequences of a PM who doesn’t sleep are already for the world to see.” Against this back and forth on the Philippines embassy episode, the statement by Ardern, the New Zealand Prime Minister widely admired for her style of governance and efficiency, made two things clear. One, there was a medical emergency in the New Zealand high commission in New Delhi and the mission did put out a message seeking help. Two, the Prime Minister accepted that the high commission should have tapped official channels and confirmed that it had apologised. There was neither any smart repartee nor acid-dripping retort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Assembly Polls 2021: Entire state stood dehind daughter of Bengal, says Puri priest||Jagannath Swain Mohapatra, a senior servitor of the Puri Shree Jagannath temple, had organised a yagna at the residence of Bengal chief minister and Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee in February to ensure her party’s victory in the Assembly elections and had exuded confidence about the TMC coming to power again. Mohapatra’s forecast came true on Sunday with the resounding victory of Trinamul in the elections and Mamata all set to become the chief minister of Bengal for the third time in a row. Mohapatra was in touch with Mamata and spoke to her twice on counting day to keep track of the developments on Sunday. The 70-year-old servitor, who performed the puja at Mamata’s residence on February 26, told The Telegraph: “On that day after performing the puja at her residence at Kalighat, I had a feeling that she would win the battle. Early on Sunday morning on counting day, I went inside the shrine and lit a diya (earthen lamp) for Mamata, our daughter, the daughter of Bengal. I had a feeling that she would win. After coming back from the temple, I called her around 10am and gave my best wishes and gave the blessings of Lord Jagannath. I called her again around 5pm and congratulated her.” Mohapatra, who is the chief badagrahi (protector) of Lord Jagannath during the Rath Yatra of the deities at Puri and tasked with protecting his chariot, said: “I have closely watched her (Mamata). She is a great devotee of Lord Jagannath and has a great love for mankind. Lord always protects people who surrender at his feet. Mamata is a shining example of this.” Praising the Bengal chief minister, the senior servitor said: “She is always connected with the masses and can read the nerve of the people. She understands their problems. The way Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders targeted her and tried to take fun of her did not go down well with the people of the state. Women disliked it in particular and rose as one to save the daughter of Bengal. The BJP even failed to unite the Hindus because they are also aware that the party is indulging in politics over religion. The BJP’s move has backfired.” He further said: “Lord Jagannath is the symbol of secularism. Jagannath culture is above communal politics. Lord Jagannath is the lord of the universe. Devotees from all sects are dear to him. Bhakta Salabega, a 17th century Muslim poet, was the greatest devotee of Lord Jagannath and the devotional songs penned by him are considered the best. The BJP has failed to understand the Jagannath culture. Lakhs of people from Bengal are devotees of Lord Jagannath. They did not fall prey to cheap communal politics.” He also said he wanted to go to Calcutta to offer his good wishes to Mamata but the Covid situation prevented him from undertaking the journey. “Even Mamata expressed her desire to come to Puri to offer her prayers at the feet of Lord Jagannath. I told her not to come as the temple is closed for devotees because of Covid-19. Besides, it’s better not to travel at this time when the corona(virus) pandemic has spread all over,” the senior priest said. On Mamata’s defeat from the Nandigram seat, he said: “Its not at all important. Somewhere something went wrong. There should be a recounting there. What is important is that the entire state stood behind the daughter of Bengal. We are proud of our daughter has single-handedly faced the onslaught of BJP and defeated them. It’s because of Lord’s wish that Mamata had a landslide victory.” Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik spoke to Mamata on Monday and congratulated her for the landslide victory in the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen runs out, 24 patients died in Karnataka ||Twenty-four Covid patients died in Karnataka’s Chamrajnagar district in 24 hours, with the Opposition alleging they succumbed to a lack of oxygen and crying “murder by the government”. Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar acknowledged an oxygen shortage in the state but claimed that only 3 of the 24 patients had died because of an interruption in oxygen supply at the district government hospital. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah alleged that Chamrajnagar had been facing an oxygen shortage since Friday but the authorities had ignored the pleas of Congress leaders from the district. While 23 patients died at the government hospital, one died at a private hospital in Chamrajnagar, about 175km from here, between Sunday 7am and Monday 7am, minister Sudhakar said. “All the (23) patients (at the district hospital) had been in hospital for 14 to 18 days and were critical,” he said. He said the state government had ordered an inquiry headed by an IAS officer, Shivayogi Kalasad. “Each life is precious and it’s our duty to find out the reason (for the deaths) and ensure they are not repeated,” the minister told reporters. Asked about the Opposition’s allegation, Sudhakar said: “I shall wait for the inquiry report, to be submitted in three days.” Sudhakar said that while the government hospital had a 6,000-litre oxygen storage plant whose stocks were expected to last a day and a half, private hospitals in Chamrajnagar mostly depended on oxygen cylinders ferried from Mysore, 60km away. “All cylinders are refilled in Mysore since Chamrajnagar has no refilling centre,” Sudhakar said, citing what he said was one of the reasons for the shortage. Siddaramaiah sought the resignation of BJP chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Sudhakar and education minister Suresh Kumar, who is in charge of the district. The Congress leader demanded a judicial inquiry into the deaths, asking whether a government probe headed by a bureaucrat could be expected to reveal the truth. “Our former MP, R. Dhruvanarayana, and MLA Puttaranga Shetty tried to reach Suresh Kumar even on Sunday (over the oxygen shortage) but he was not available,” Siddaramaiah said. He urged the government to pay Rs 25 lakh to the next of kin of each of the dead as compensation, and punish all those responsible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Kerala Assembly Elections 2021: Major shake-up on cards in Congress likely||A major shake-up is on cards in the Kerala unit of the Congress following its shock defeat in the state polls with the Left Democratic Front making history by bucking a four-decades-old anti-incumbency cycle. Party sources said state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran has already sounded off AICC about his willingness to step down and at least one district president has resigned taking responsibility for the loss. However, the general consensus was against anyone resigning at this stage. “We are planning to conduct a review of the results before the next government takes over,” AICC observer Ivan D’Souza told The Telegraph. Camped in Thiruvananthapuram, D’Souza, who is from neighbouring Karnataka, said it was too early to take any call on changes in the party organisation. “We need to meet all the leaders to review. I am not aware of anyone offering to resign,” he said when asked about Ramachandran’s offer. But later in the day, the party’s Alappuzha district president M. Liju submitted his resignation accepting responsibility for the party’s poor show in the district where Congress could win just one of the nine seats. Although the CPM had denied tickets to heavyweights such as T.M. Thomas Isaac in Alappuzha and G. Sudhakaran in neighbouring Ambalappuzha, the Congress failed to capitalise on their absence. Liju lost in Ambalappuzha. Kannur district Congress president Satheesan Pacheni also offered to resign. He had lost to Kadanapally Ramachandran of the LDF in Kannur constituency. State Congress vice-president C.P. Mohammed sought a complete change in the party’s organisation structure. “There is no point in changing one functionary. But there should be a complete makeover from the bottom to the top level,” he told a channel. The first sign of a significant change came with sources indicating that the party could go in for a new leader of the Opposition in place of Ramesh Chennithala. The alternatives that came up included V.D. Satheesan, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and P.T. Thomas. Party sources said many of them wanted a change in leadership by roping in someone like K. Sudhakaran, a powerhouse from Kannur district. Radhakrishnan later told a channel that he wanted Sudhakaran, a Lok Sabha member, to be “utilised properly”. Former chief minister A.K. Antony told reporters that the party had everything in it to come back if it picked up the right lessons from the setback. “The Congress and the UDF can come back very strongly if we learn the right lessons from this defeat,” said the former Union minister. A party insider said there were major concerns about the UDF being pushed to the third place in six constituencies, four of them in Thiruvananthapuram district. “This is something we need to address along with the overall defeat. We are a party with a very good base in Kerala. So we cannot let the BJP overtake us in so many constituencies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Bengal Polls 2021: We are happy at Mamata Banerjee’s victory, say Kashmiris ||Soura resident Gul Mohammad Wani, who has travelled to Calcutta every winter to sell shawls for the past 40 years, has never voted in Kashmir elections. But on Sunday he was quietly praying for the victory of the “secular forces” in the Bengal polls, much like thousands of other “shawlwallas” who peddle their stuff in the eastern state and consider it their “second home”. “Naturally, we are happy (at Mamata Banerjee’s victory). I was always confident that they (BJP) would not win the election there,” Wani, 62, told The Telegraph. “That’s because Bengalis are a very peace-loving and civilised people. I knew they would reject the forces of Hindutva.” Wani said he had virtually “spent my life” in Bengal, staying on for six to seven months every year in the state. “We see Bengal as our second home; we always felt safer there than in our own Kashmir. But this election was the first (to have) a communal element. Kashmiris doing business there feared for their security if the other party (BJP) won,” he said. Apart from the handicrafts sellers who regularly visit Bengal, many other Kashmiris too closely monitored the election. Kashmir has suffered at the hands of the BJP-led central government, losing its special status and having to endure laws seen as ploys to change the Valley’s Muslim-majority character. For Wani, who began his working life as a hawker after dropping out of college in the early 1980s and is now a wholesaler, Mamata’s victory means a lot more than politics. Thousands of Kashmiri shawl sellers, many with their families in tow, leave for Bengal every year, around October, to sell their stuff and return in April. Wani said the practice had continued uninterrupted for the past 200 years. “Because of that there are a lot of cultural connects between the people of the two places. I have often hosted my Bengali acquaintances, vacationing in Kashmir, at my home in Srinagar. They too are very hospitable to us,” he said. Handicrafts are the mainstay of Kashmir’s economy after agriculture, horticulture and tourism. Lakhs of artisans are engaged in the sector, and thousands travel to different parts of the country to sell the products. For a large number of them, Bengal is the favourite destination. Hazratbal resident Gulzar Fazli, who has sold his wares in Bengal for decades, said the state would never have been the same again for Kashmiris if Mamata had lost to the BJP. “The situation in Kashmir has been bad for a long time but it was always refreshing for us to spend our winters there (in Bengal). That might have changed (with a BJP victory). For a couple of years, I have not been able to go to Bengal because of health reasons but I’m missing that place,” he said. Bashir Ahmad Akhoon, who lives in Chak-e-Bagh near Srinagar’s National Institute of Technology, said the Bengal government had stood by visiting Kashmiri traders in times of trouble. “After the Pulwama attack (of 2019), some people roughed up and robbed a few Kashmiri hawkers, but the Mamata government warned them. The traders’ money was soon returned to them,” Akhoon said. Former chief ministers Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah have congratulated Mamata on her huge victory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Doctor cautions against use of lung CT scans, steroids in people with mild Covid-19||A top medical doctor on Monday cautioned against the use of lung CT scans or steroids in people with mild Covid-19, warning that they would potentially harm patients. “There is no need for CT scans in patients with mild illness,” Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, said at a health ministry briefing. Sometimes, a small proportion of even asymptomatic Covid-19 patients might show patches visible through CT scans but do not require any intervention, he said. A single CT scan can expose patients to radiation equivalent to that from 300 X-rays, Guleria said, and people who are young may experience a greater risk of cancer through such exposure. “The timing of treatment is critical,” he said, cautioning that the consumption of steroids in the early stages of the infection might increase viral loads and raise the risk of viral pneumonia. An updated standard treatment protocol released by the AIIMS faculty on April 22 makes it clear that patients with mild illness only need drugs such as paracetamol along with gargling and steam inhalation, depending on symptoms. Only patients who advance into the moderate stage — marked by a fall in oxygen levels to below 93-94 or more than 24 breaths per minute — need to be treated with oxygen, steroids and other medications. AIIMS, Guleria said, has been trying to disseminate the protocol to doctors across the country through online seminars. He said oxygen therapy, steroids, and anti-coagulants — drugs that reduce the risk of clotting — remain primary treatments in moderate disease. Although remdesivir, tocilizumab and convalescent plasma have also been approved for use under emergency-use authorisation, Guleria said, there is not enough data yet to support clear benefits from these interventions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Centre invites medical graduates to join Covid workforce||The Centre on Monday invited medical graduates across India studying for the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate (PG) courses to join the Covid-19 workforce, assuring them that the exam will not be held before August 31. The Union health ministry has asked states to reach out to all such prospective NEET candidates and persuade them to join the Covid-19 workforce and help augment human resources at a time the savage second wave of the pandemic has overwhelmed hospitals and medical staff. The ministry also said it would give the candidates at least one month’s time for study period after the announcement of the examination date. More than 150,000 medical graduates are estimated to be preparing for the NEET-PG 2021 that was scheduled for January 2021 but has been postponed, first to April 2021 and now to beyond August 31. The ministry has also asked states to fill up vacant posts of doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff within 45 days through contractual appointments and use services of final-year MBBS students, final-year PG students, and final-year BSc qualified nurses for Covid-19 care. Public and private hospitals may avail of these relaxations, the ministry said, adding that medical personnel who complete 100 days of Covid-19 duties will be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments. Health experts tracking the second wave have said these moves were overdue as the numbers of new infections and active patients in many parts of India have grown beyond the capacity of hospitals or healthcare staff to manage with ideal high efficiency. India recorded over 368,000 new infections on Monday, raising the total number of active patients to over 3.41 million, more than three times higher than the peak counts of patients in mid-September last year during the first wave. “Unprecedented problems warrant unprecedented solutions — and this is one of those periods,” said Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. Sections of medical graduates, however, say they are dismayed by the Centre’s decision to postpone the NEET-PG exam. “I think this is a short-sighted decision — taken by people who have little idea about what studying for the exam involves,” an aspiring candidate told The Telegraph. India would have had nearly 40,000 extra medical graduates working as residents and available for Covid-19 duties had NEET 2021 been held in January as planned when the number of daily new Covid-19 cases had fallen significantly, the candidate said. The parent of a NEET 2021 candidate said students typically study 15 or 16 hours a day for months to score high in the exam and working full-time in a hospital wouldn’t provide them enough time to study. “Getting a month before the exam isn’t enough — the syllabus is like a bottomless pit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas earns reputation for helping people in distress||Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas has earned a reputation for helping people in distress. From the harsh lockdown in March 2020 to the devastating second wave of the pandemic now, he has been seen distributing food, arranging for transport, delivering oxygen and medicines at doorsteps and securing hospital admissions. In an interview with The Telegraph, Srinivas refused to accept that he was doing anything exceptional, arguing that thousands of people were helping each other in this time of crisis. Excerpts follow: Q: What motivated you to serve people at a time when politics is all about networking and deception? B.V. Srinivas: I will tell you the reality. In March 2020, Rahul Gandhi told us that this pandemic will play havoc with the world and instructed us to help people in whatever way possible. We followed his instructions. Again on March 7, 2021, Rahulji attended the Youth Congress executive and alerted us to the lurking danger of the second wave. He asked us to keep focus on Covid, farmers’ agitation and unemployment. We responded to his call with sincerity. Q: But the leader always exhorts the cadre to serve the people. That’s taken as hollow rhetoric. You have taken it very seriously. Srinivas: Not me. We selected 600 Youth Congress workers last year — those who had passion to serve the people and were resourceful and networked across the country. They all worked tirelessly last year during the lockdown when millions of people got dislocated and walked hundreds of kilometres to reach home. We have added 400 more this year and these 1,000 people are Rahul Gandhi’s team extending a helping hand to people in distress. We formed a helpline, set up systems on social media — with the hashtag “SOSIYC” — and used personal Twitter accounts to connect to needy persons. We are getting thousands of distress calls. It saddens us that we cannot help everybody. Q: But the nature of youth politics has been different — it is known more for energy than compassion. The Youth Congress was known more for rowdyism than social service. You have developed a new model of youth politics. Srinivas: No, no… our tradition is politics of Mahatma Gandhi. Our leader Rahulji is also young and he tells us this is not the time for politics. If you can’t help people in such a great humanitarian crisis, politics will be reduced to power-grabbing. I am lucky that Rahulji gave me the opportunity and platform to do something for the people. Q: There are thousands of youth in the Congress and other parties. Why is that Srinivas stands out? How many other leaders are working like this? Srinivas: Thousands of people have come out to help. Civil society knows the government has failed and people are desperately looking for help. We are working among the people because there is extreme distress. We are living in difficult times. I was lucky to have worked in natural calamities in Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala over the past few years. I went to Bihar as well during floods. Q: You had this commitment from the very beginning, to serve the people? Srinivas: I don’t come from a political background. My father died early, my mother was an employee in Steel Authority of India. I was playing cricket, played under-19. I was a wicketkeeper-batsman. An accident ended my cricket and I got interested in politics in college. Then Rahulji made me national secretary of Youth Congress and I came to Delhi. When I was given charge of Uttar Pradesh as general secretary, I was hesitant as I didn’t know Hindi. But Rahulji told me you have to understand “bhavna (emotion)” of the people, “bhasha (language)” is not important. That motivated me. Now as Youth Congress president, I have the opportunity to work. Q: How do you manage to help such a large number of people? Where do the resources come from? Does the party help? Srinivas: Nothing can be done without the party’s help. We also rely on donations, primarily from Youth Congress members themselves. There are many resourceful persons, well-connected guys who help. They can arrange transport, get admission in hospitals, arrange medicine and food. There are dedicated boys who are working 24x7. It is unfortunate that I have become the face; the whole team is equally responsible. Q: Don’t you think the very nature of politics will change if social service becomes the guiding principle for all? Srinivas: That’s how it should be. We are seeing aberrations now when humanitarian responsibilities are ignored. But Rahulji is committed to that kind of politics. Things will change soon. Politics has to be about people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Social media a godsend as govt fails the sick||Rajni Gill woke up with a slight fever in mid-April, the first warning that she had Covid-19. Within a few days, she was breathless and nearly unconscious in a hospital. Desperate to arrange plasma treatment for Gill, a gynaecologist in Noida, her family called doctors, friends, anyone they thought could help. Then her sister posted a plea on Facebook: “I am looking for a plasma donor for my sister who is hospitalised in Noida. She is B positive and is 43.” The message, quickly amplified on Twitter, flashed across the phone of B.V. Srinivas, an Opposition politician in Delhi, who was just then securing plasma for a college student. He deputised a volunteer donor to rush to the blood bank for Gill. “The administration and systems have collapsed,” Srinivas said. “I have never seen so many people dying at the same time.” “Mine and my team’s work may be a drop in the ocean — but a drop nevertheless,” he said. With India’s healthcare system overwhelmed by the unprecedented Covid surge, which is bringing about 400,000 new cases and thousands of deaths each day, desperate relatives and friends of the infected have resorted to sending SOS messages on social media. And many of those calls are being answered. Some people need medical oxygen, which is nearly impossible to find in the national capital. Others are hunting for medicine that goes for high prices on the black market, or for ventilators that are exceedingly rare. The pleas are reaching tech-savvy engineers, lawyers, NGO workers, politicians, doctors and even tuk-tuk drivers, who have mobilised online to help the sick, some of them hundreds of miles away. Collectively, they have formed grassroots networks that are stepping in where state and national governments have failed. It is a role that Srinivas, 38, has played before in times of crisis. As the president of the Congress party’s youth league, he has provided support after natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods. He has worked to get textbooks to underprivileged children and medicine to people who couldn’t afford it. Early last year, when the pandemic first struck and India locked down, Srinivas galvanised young volunteers across the country who distributed food for stranded migrants, along with more than 10 million masks. He now heads a team of 1,000 people, including 100 in Delhi, the centre of the current outbreak. “I have grown up on Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals,” said Srinivas, who aspired to be a cricket player before entering politics. “I cannot believe it that I am out here today, trying to help so many people.” The cries for help on Twitter and Facebook started spreading “like wildfire” in early April, Srinivas said. He created the hashtag “SOSIYC” so people could connect to his organisation, the Indian Youth Congress. His team advertises for plasma donors online, and 5,000 have signed up. He also enlists psychologists to counsel donors about the four-hour procedure. India’s loose online aid networks rely on tools and techniques commonly used in marketing and other forms of messaging on social media. Families tag people with large followings or specialised skills who might be able to amplify their messages, while volunteer organisers use keywords to filter the flood of requests. Abhishek Murarka, who works in finance in Mumbai, decided he needed to do more than retweet messages. He started searching for the terms “verified”, “confirmed” and “available” on Twitter to track down specific leads on Covid supplies. He has since posted an 84-second video explaining his techniques so that others can use them. Hundreds of miles away, Praveen Mishra, 20, who runs a start-up in Bangalore, studied Murarka’s video and applied his own filters to search for beds, oxygen and medicine. He was able to get a particular medicine to a patient in Delhi after confirming that it was available in Hyderabad. “Initially I felt very scared, that there are too many cases and that I will not be able to help at all,” Mishra said. “Now I am calling 20 leads per day and verifying their needs.” Some people are tapping into resources around the world. Nikhil Jois, a technology executive in Bangalore, and his own team vetted charity organisations that supplied oxygen, food and sanitary napkins. He whittled his list down to just over a dozen organisations, some of which could accept international donations. His team then asked several companies in India to link to the list on their apps or websites. And he began emailing executives, investors and best-selling authors in the US, asking them to give. “The most beautiful part of social media is that you trust strangers,” Jois said. That, of course, is not always a good idea. Dubious accounts offer shoddy or exorbitantly priced goods to desperate people, and leads on supplies can quickly evaporate. And trolls will always inflict hate on the vulnerable. But with India in crisis and travel not a safe option, social media has been the only way for some people to find help. Aditya Jain, who is in Delhi, recently put out a plea that went viral on Twitter. He felt helpless as his elderly aunt and uncle, about 130 miles away in Agra, struggled during the strict lockdown there. His aunt suffers from a spinal disease, and his uncle, a diabetic, needs weekly dialysis. Unable to go out, they were eating just one meal a day. They couldn’t care for themselves, and at times they couldn’t make it to the bathroom. Through LinkedIn, he found an organisation that caters to seniors. He filled out a form, providing their names, location and other information. The next morning, volunteers showed up at their doorstep with breakfast and adult diapers. “Social media is like a godsend for us,” said an emotional Jain, who has lost one of his other relatives to Covid. Srinivas said he was getting at least 10,000 messages on Twitter every day and followed up on all of them. For every 100 requests, he said, he can usually help 30 to 40 people, given the shortages. Even foreign diplomats in Delhi have reached out to his organisation for help. On Sunday, the New Zealand High Commission tagged the Indian Youth Congress on Twitter in an appeal for oxygen cylinders. Since the Youth Congress is part of the political Opposition, that got a lot of attention, given the intense criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the pandemic. (The commission said its appeal had been “misinterpreted, for which we are sorry”.) Srinivas’s volunteers use direct messaging to collect data on people needing help, then classify them by risk profile. They work with people on the ground to arrange hospital beds and plasma donations for the most serious cases. Others are put in touch with doctors who can provide remote consultations. Often, the system’s deficiencies are too great to overcome. Mahua Ray Chaudhuri frantically tagged Srinivas looking for oxygen for her sick father. His team found some, but that wasn’t enough: No ICU beds were available. “At least I could get him oxygen, and he died breathing,” Chaudhuri said by telephone, breaking down. “This help from strangers on Twitter was like a balm for our disturbed minds and souls.” But Srinivas’s team was able to get plasma for Gill, the gynaecologist, just in time. She is now recuperating in a hospital on the outskirts of Delhi. “I feel choked with emotions,” she said. “Coming out of such a fatal time, I realise I have been helped selflessly by complete strangers.” She recently called Srinivas to thank him. “Though I have never met her, it was a humbling experience hearing her voice,” he said. “I am so relieved she made it.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||SC refuses to entertain EC's plea to restrain police from registering murder cases against officials||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain an Election Commission plea to restrain the country’s police from registering murder cases against its officials on the basis of oral observations by Madras High Court that blamed the poll panel for the Covid resurgence. The apex court also ruled out restraining the high courts from making such oral observations or the media from reporting them, asserting the media was the “watchdog” of democracy and needed to report such oral observations for the public good. Madras High Court had on April 26 castigated the commission for allowing poll rallies, held it “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave, called it the “the most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. It later refused to recall its observations. Last week, a culpable homicide case was registered in Calcutta against deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain over a poll candidate’s death from Covid. The case was registered on a complaint from Nandita Sinha, wife of Trinamul candidate Kajal Sinha who was on Sunday posthumously declared elected from Khardaha. While refusing the commission’s plea, the apex court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the poll panel was free to approach Calcutta High Court and seek quashing of the culpable homicide case. “We will have to maintain sanctity of judicial order; we will have to also give liberty to the chief justice of high court. We also feel that the media should include in its reports everything that has been observed in the court,” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, counsel for the commission. “We cannot pass any directions that media cannot report the contents of the oral discussion in court and only report the order. This is because the discussion in a court of law is equally in public interest. When we are dealing with the superior courts like the high courts, I place this (oral) discussion at the same pedestal as the final order. “Now, we cannot say that the media will not report the discussion made in the court.... The media is of course the watchdog of the sanctity of this process (court proceedings). “It is the reporting of this process which gives confidence to the public.... It is this process which discloses to the public that there has been an application of the mind to assuage the concerns of citizens.” Nor can the apex court order high court judges to confine themselves to pleadings or the written order, the bench said. “If we restrain ourselves from dialogues, then it would cause serious harm to the judicial process.” Justice Chandrachud said the bench had no control over the registration of cases filed on the basis of oral observations by the high courts. In such a situation, it said, the commission had the legal remedy of approaching the high court concerned and seek quashing of the FIR. “You (commission) can approach the high court (in Calcutta) under Section 482 (CrPC),” the bench said. Later, the court said it would pass a “balanced” written order on the commission’s appeal against Madras High Court’s oral observations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court prods Centre on oxygen, vaccines ||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to ensure uniform vaccine prices, build a buffer stock of oxygen and crack down on those selling key Covid drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab on the black market. It has also asked the Centre and the states to consider fresh lockdowns — but only after taking welfare measures for the poor — and ensure that no one is denied hospital treatment for failing to furnish ID proof or for being a resident of another state. The order by the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, which had on April 30 suo motu heard the Centre and the states on the management of the Covid crisis, was uploaded on Sunday night. Some of its highlights: ⚫ The Centre must ensure that the deficit in oxygen supply to the Delhi government is rectified by May 3-4 midnight. ⚫ The Centre should, in collaboration with the states, prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency use. The emergency stocks, whose location should be decentralised, must be created by May 4 and replenished daily. This will be in addition to the existing allocation of oxygen to the states. ⚫ The Centre and the states must notify all chief secretaries, directors-general of police and police commissioners that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment of people seeking or delivering help through any platform will attract action. The court registrar must place a copy of this order before all district magistrates. ⚫ The Centre must, within two weeks, formulate a national policy on admission to hospitals that will be followed by all state governments. Till the policy is formulated, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs anywhere for lack of proof of residence in the state or Union Territory concerned, or even in the absence of identity proof. ⚫ The Centre must revisit its initiatives and protocols, including those on the availability of essential drugs at affordable prices and on vaccine pricing. Currently, vaccine makers are charging the states higher prices than the Centre, and the private hospitals are being charged even higher prices. “This court would like to take judicial notice of the fact that several critical drugs, used to treat Covid-19, such as remdesivir and tocilizumab, are being sold at significantly inflated prices or in fake form,” the court said. “The central government can consider constituting a special team to identify and prosecute those who (a) sell medical grade oxygen/Covid-19 medicines at exorbitant prices; and (b) sell fake substances and recover the concerned substances.” The court added: “A protocol for ambulances must also be evolved to avoid citizens being exploited by extracting unconscionable charges. The central government can consider creating a platform for easy reporting and redress of such cases.” It said the Centre should consider deploying the healthcare workforce available with the defence and paramilitary forces in the vaccination campaign. The Centre and the states should also put “a ban on mass gatherings and super spreader events” and explore the possibility of a fresh lockdown. “Having said that, we are cognisant of the socio-economic impact of a lockdown, specifically on the marginalised communities. Thus, in case the measure of a lockdown is imposed, arrangements must be made beforehand to cater to the needs of these communities,” the bench said. The court asked the Centre and the states “to put on record the efforts taken to curb the spread of the virus and the measures that they plan on taking in the near future”. The government is to respond before the next date of hearing, May 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Arvind Kejriwal announces measures for patients under home isolation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced measures for Covid-19 patients under home isolation in the capital. In recent days, several news reports have cited under-reporting of Covid deaths and lack of data on patients outside hospitals. During a meeting with top health officials on Monday, Kejriwal said that “...those who are in home isolation should receive a call from the team of doctors within 24 hours of being tested positive so that counselling can begin as soon as possible”. A statement from his office said that district administrations have been asked to ensure that every home isolation patient has a pulse oximeter. These were protocols put in place last year but were eased out as the pandemic temporarily subsided. On May 1, 50,742 patients were under home isolation and 21,154 were in medical facilities. On the day, 407 deaths were recorded in the capital. Several families have avoided testing Covid victims fearing stigma that could come in the way of performing their last rites. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told reporters on Monday: “We have asked for help from various stakeholders in terms of oxygen supply, whether it is asking the army to provide trucks or DRDO’s facility with 500 beds. But we need intensive and immediate help to ensure proper oxygen supply in Delhi. We are in touch with private entities, social sector, central government for the same... As of yesterday (Sunday), we received 440MT of oxygen, which is lesser than the allocated quota of 590MT and much lesser than Delhi’s requirement of 976MT to cater to the demand of each and every citizen. It is imperative that we receive adequate oxygen and increase our capacity of beds.” Sisodia also wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to waive the 12 per cent GST on oxygen concentrators for six months. These are devices that patients are now buying online, without any government subsidy, for treatment at home. Mostly imported, these cost upwards of Rs 50,000, with some costing more than Rs 1.5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Assembly Elections 2021: Farmers rejoice in saffron party's defeat in three of five state ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, rejoicing in the resounding defeat of the BJP in three of the five state elections, said on Monday the party had been taught a lesson by the farmers and workers of the country. The Morcha, under whose banner some 500 farmer organisations from across the country are protesting against three farm laws brought by the Centre, said in a statement that the BJP had lost the Assembly elections because of the “heavy anger of farmers and workers of the nation”. The BJP was soundly defeated in Bengal, an election where it had thrown all its might and which it had built up as a direct battle between Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee. It did not win a single seat in Kerala and was on the vanquished side in Tamil Nadu. The party won only in Assam and Puducherry, where it was the junior partner. The Morcha statement said farmers have seen through the government plan of “ending the mandi system”, allowing corporate groups to build stocks without a limit and “the aspiration of the corporate to take over the lands of the farmers”. “Due to farmers not getting MSP and spreading lies in the name of MSP, farmers have shown their anger in these elections,” the statement added. “At the same time, the labourers have also taught the BJP a lesson by casting the vote against them. Through the new Labour Codes, the government wants to impose a slavery system. The provision to increase the working time from 8 hours to 12 hours is not acceptable to the workers. The workers have voted against the BJP government’s intentions of shutting down the PDS scheme,” it said. Some farmer leaders pointed out that the prolonged farmer protests against all odds, including the oppression of the State, had demolished the psychological barrier of the BJP being invincible. Farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders since November last year. “Farmers showed the common people that it is possible to stand up to the ‘Mo-Sha’ (Modi-Shah) regime. Also, the Covid vaccination controversy made people realise that what is happening with vaccines now — where people have to pay for basic immunisation and pharma companies/hospitals allowed to fix their rates — could well happen with food once the farm laws become operational,’’ the Morcha said. Under the Morcha’s call, farmers had campaigned against the BJP in all five election-bound states. They did not support any party but asked people to vote for the political party best positioned in their respective areas to defeat the BJP. Parliament march Farmer union leaders suggested that their proposed march to Parliament in the first fortnight of May might be put on hold because of the pandemic. Though a final decision will be taken at a meeting on May 10, some union leaders The Telegraph spoke to said it would be foolhardy to continue with the march and create a possible super-spreader situation when the virus is on rampage and the health infrastructure is overwhelmed. “It will be highly irresponsible on our part to do this, and also counterproductive as immediately the government and its agents would use it to malign the movement,’’ a union leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
