05-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports 920 deaths in a day; 57,640 new cases||Maharashtra reported 920 deaths due to COVID-19, taking the toll to 72,662, while 57,640 new cases pushed the overall infection count to 48,80,542 on Wednesday, a state health department official said. The state reported 5,760 new cases and 30 more deaths as compared to Tuesday, when the daily infection count was 51,880 and fatalities were 891. The official said as many as 57,006 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, raising the number of recovered cases to 41,64,098. The state now has 6,41,569 active cases, he said. Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate currently stood at 85.32 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.49 per cent, he said. According to the official, out of 2,83,84,582 COVID-19 tests done so far, 48,80,542 samples have returned positive, reflecting a case positivity rate of 17.19 per cent. According to the official, Mumbai reported 3,882 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,65,057, while the toll increased to 13,511 with 77 fresh fatalities. The official said 3,390 people tested positive for coronavirus in Pune municipal limits, pushing the tally to 4,48,504, while 59 fresh deaths raised the toll to 5,754. Nagpur, Pimpari-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 2,663, 2,042, 2,010, 342 and 169 new COVID-19 cases, respectively. Currently, 38,52,501 people are in home quarantine and 32,174 in institutional quarantine across the state, the official said. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 48,80,542; new cases 57,640; total deaths 72,662; recoveries 41,64,098; active cases 6,41,569; tests conducted so far 2,83,84,582.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Third wave of coronavirus inevitable, says top scientific advisor to Centre||The government on Wednesday said that a third wave of coronavirus pandemic was "inevitable", although a time-frame for it could not be predicted. In a press briefing by the Ministry of Health Affairs on Wednesday, officials said the long Covid wave of such "ferocity" that the country was experiencing currently "was not predicted". Twelve states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, have more than 1 lakh active Covid cases, the government said. Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Bihar are among the states that show an increasing trend in daily cases, it said. The government also said that 24 states and UTs show more than 15 per cent Covid positivity rate. From May 1, 6.71 lakh people in the age group of 18-44 years in nine states have been administered the vaccines, it added. "Phase three is inevitable given the higher levels of circulating virus, but it is not clear on what time-scale this phase three will occur. We should be prepared for new waves," said K Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the Centre. Member, NITI Ayog, Dr VK Paul requested "physicians' fraternity" to come forward and provide teleconsultations to people and families at home who are infected with coronavirus. "The response to the changing virus remains the same. We need to follow the Covid- appropriate behaviour such as mask, distancing, hygiene, no unnecessary meetings and staying at home," Dr Paul said. Asked about the possibility of a nationwide lockdown, the NITI Aayog member, as quoted by ndtv.com, said: "...If anything more is required those options are always being discussed. There's already a guideline to states to impose restrictions to suppress the chain of transmission." In reply to a question, he said that the disease is not spreading through animals, but through human to human transmission. Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said that the foreign aid coming from abroad is being monitored by a group of senior officials. "Our technical wing has made guidelines to see what hospital would the equipment be suitable for. The equipment is being sent to hospitals where an immediate need has been felt," he said. Agarwal also said that 11 districts in Maharashtra are showing continuous decline in Covid cases since the last 14 days, while some districts like Satara and Solapur show a continued increase in such cases over the last two weeks. He also said that the government is making continuous efforts to build capacities of all healthcare facilities across the country. A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,87,229 comprising 16.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Supreme Court stays HC’s contempt proceedings against Centre over oxygen||The Supreme Court Wednesday stayed contempt proceedings initiated by Delhi High Court against central government officials for non-compliance of the direction to supply 700 MT of medical grade oxygen for Covid-19 patients in the national capital. The stay, however, will not restrain the high court from monitoring the Covid-19 management related issues, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The top court, in an urgent hearing, directed that a meeting be held between officials of the Centre and Delhi government by this evening to discuss various aspects of augmenting the oxygen supply to the national capital. “This is an all-India pandemic situation and we will have to find ways to ensure oxygen supply to the national capital as we are answerable to people of Delhi,” it said. “We are also in Delhi. We are helpless and have been on the phone. We can imagine what citizens are going through,” Justice Chandrachud said, adding that his office is hearing cries from people including lawyers seeking help. The top court said it cannot review its order of April 30 and the Centre will have to inch towards supply of 700 MT of oxygen daily for Delhi and asked the Union government to place before it a plan by Thursday morning as to how it will revamp the supply to 700MT. It suggested that a committee of experts and doctors including those from the private sector may be constituted to ascertain the situation in Delhi and take into account the Covid-19 situation which had been prevailing in Mumbai. The top court, in a nearly two-hour hearing, said that putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to Delhi and questioned the Centre about the supply it has made to the national capital since May 3. The bench said, “Let us ensure lives are saved and by enhancing supply of around 150MT per day the quantity will come up to 700MT and the number of lives will be saved.” It was hearing the Centre's appeal against Delhi High Court's Tuesday order of issuing contempt notice and seeking personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance with the directions on supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. The bench said that it had ordered supply of 700 MT oxygen to Delhi daily from May 3 as the pandemic in Delhi is at a very critical stage . Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to the city, let us ensure lives are saved, said the bench which also comprised justice M R Shah. “This is not adversarial litigation. Centre, Delhi governments are elected and doing their best to serve Covid-19 patients”, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. "Tell us how much oxygen you have allocated to Delhi in the last three days," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Seems like Delhi govt has not taken the right steps for oxygen supply, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it appears that the Delhi government has not taken steps for the creation of a buffer of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and for streamlining its distribution in the national capital. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said it is for the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) to explore the various possibilities to create storage facilities for LMO and oxygen cylinders in the city. The court said that the GNCTD may take help of the Delhi Technological University to prepare a blueprint for the storage and distribution of oxygen in the city. It said the obligation to create an oxygen buffer fell on both the Centre and GNCTD as per the Supreme Court's April 30 order. The observations and directions by the bench came after one of the lawyers present in the hearing said that large static cryogenic tanks for storing LMO are available and can be installed in the city to create a buffer of the life-saving gas. The lawyer, Aditya Prasad, said that smaller tankers can pick up oxygen from the larger tanks and distribute it in the city and in this way Delhi need not fall upon other states or Centre for tankers to transport oxygen. He said the tanks can be installed with the help of the Army. The court also noted that oxygen supplier INOX manufactures such static cryogenic tanks and there may be others and it was for the Delhi government to explore all the possibilities for creating storage facilities for oxygen. The bench asked the Delhi government to identify the necessary areas where such tanks can be installed and to also create infrastructure for the purpose of distribution of both LMO and oxygen cylinders in the city. Prasad told the court that his research has identified several vendors providing oxygen storage tanks, oxygen generation plants and Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) plants and said that the Delhi government should also carry out research as he did and procure the necessary equipment to create the infrastructure for generation, transportation and storage of oxygen in the city. The court asked Prasad to share his research with the Delhi government and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao. It directed the Delhi government to examine the quotations obtained by Prasad and to also look for other vendors who could meet the requirements and asked them to file a report on the aspect by Friday, May 7. The court was hearing several pleas regarding the issues related to Covid-19 that Delhi is grappling with presently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Putting officers in jail won’t bring oxygen to Delhi, says SC||Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to Delhi, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday while it asked the Centre about the supply it has made to the national capital since May 3. "Let us ensure lives are saved," it said. The top court is hearing Centre's appeal against Delhi High Court's Tuesday order of issuing contempt notice and seeking personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance with the directions on supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients in the national capital. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said that it had ordered supply of 700 MT oxygen to Delhi daily from May 3 as the pandemic in Delhi is at a very critical stage . Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to the city, let us ensure lives are saved, said the bench which also comprised justice M R Shah. This is not adversarial litigation. Centre, Delhi governments are elected and doing their best to serve Covid-19 patients, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. "Tell us how much oxygen you have allocated to Delhi in the last three days," the bench said. The hearing is still going on. The Delhi High Court on Tuesday had asked the Centre why it would not issue a contempt notice against the government for failing to comply with the bench’s order of supplying the national capital the allocated amount of oxygen within stipulated time. "You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not," the high court told the central government. "You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don't know. Are you living in ivory towers?," a bench comprising Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli bench had asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Supreme Court strikes down ‘unconstitutional’ Maratha quota||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming the statute as unconstitutional". It also refused to refer the 1992 Mandal judgement, setting a 50 per cent cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. A five-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan concurred on three major issues, framed during the hearing, and said that no exceptional circumstances or the case was made out by Maharashtra to breach the 50 per cent cap on reservation. Justices LN Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat concurred with Justice Bhushan and S Abdul Nazeer in upholding the constitutional validity of the 102nd amendment but said states cannot decide on the list of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and only the President has the power to notify it. Justices Bhushan and Nazeer in their minority view said both the Centre and State have powers to decide on the list of SEBC. The majority verdict also directed the Centre to notify a fresh list of SEBCs, and said till the time notification is being issued the existing list will hold its place. The top court unanimously refused to refer the Mandal judgement to a larger bench for reconsideration on issues including permitting the state to breach the 50 per cent ceiling on quota in extraordinary circumstances. The bench also said that appointments made in government jobs and admissions in post graduate courts after the Bombay High Court verdict of 2019 upholding Maratha quota and September 9, 2020 order of the top court staying the implementation of quota will not be affected. The judgement came on a batch of pleas challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which had upheld the grant of reservation to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state. The top court unanimously refused to refer the Mandal judgement to a larger bench for reconsideration on issues including permitting the state to breach the 50 per cent ceiling on quota in extraordinary circumstances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||India logs 3,780 Covid-19 fatalities in one day, highest since pandemic began||A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,87,229 comprising 16.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 69,51,731 while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,48,52,078 samples have been tested up to May 5 with 15,41,299 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 3,780 new fatalities include 891 from Maharashtra, 351 from Uttar Pradesh, 338 from Delhi, 288 from Karnataka, 210 from Chhattisgarh, 173 from Punjab, 154 from Rajasthan, 153 from Haryana, 144 from Tamil Nadu, 132 from Jharkhand, 131 from Gujarat, 107 from West Bengal and 105 from Bihar.
A total of 2,26,188 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 71,742 from Maharashtra, 17,752 from Delhi, 16,538 from Karnataka, 14,612 from Tamil Nadu, 13,798 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,744 from West Bengal, 9,645 from Punjab and 9,485 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut permanently suspended from Twitter||Actress Kangana Ranaut posted a curious tweet on Monday, which was followed by her permanent suspension from the microblogging site although no direct link has been cited between the specific post and the penalty. Responding to defeated BJP candidate Swapan Dasgupta’s tweet on post-poll violence in Bengal, Ranaut asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show his “virat roop” from the “early 2000s”. “Virat roop” translates as a mammoth or imposing form. It is not clear what Ranaut meant by Modi’s “virat roop” of the “early 2000s”. An indelible feature of 2002, which qualifies as “early 2000s”, was the communal riots of Gujarat when Modi was chief minister. Many Muslims were killed, and Modi was not found guilty by any court. Since then, Modi and his devotees do not like to be reminded of the darkest era in Independent India that unfolded on his watch. Ranaut’s ill-timed reminder of the “early 2000s” has come at a time a concerted attempt has been gaining ground to project Modi as a sage-like statesman. Ranaut’s tweet, now not viewable, said: “This is horrible... we need super gundai to kill gundai... she is like an unleashed monster, to tame her Modi ji please show your Virat roop from early 2000’s.... #PresidentRuleInBengal.” Twitter did not specifically link her suspension to this particular tweet. A Twitter spokesperson told The Telegraph: “We’ve been clear that we will take strong enforcement action on behaviour that has the potential to lead to offline harm. The referenced account has been permanently suspended for repeated violations of Twitter Rules specifically our Hateful Conduct policy and Abusive Behaviour policy.” The significance of “early 2000s” was not lost on social media users. One Twitter user posted: “Kangana’s tweet had hurt the ‘system’. The system does not like to be associated with 2002. Remember the Karan Thapar interview where the system abruptly left midway when probed on 2002 violence. Twitter is pleasing the system, not containing hate speech.” “System” is a social media nickname for Modi ever since a purported briefing note prodded journalists to blame the “system” for the Covid mess in India. Another Twitter user said: “Kangana Ranaut only stated about the ‘valour’ of the Prime Minister in his years as a chief minister in the early 2000s. And everybody — including and especially the BJP supporters — knew exactly what it meant.” The BJP has consistently denied involvement of its members in the Gujarat riots. Ranaut, seen as part of the Right-wing ecosystem, is accused of routinely tweeting communal and unverified remarks. These are normally amplified by social media handles sympathetic to the larger Sangh parivar. However, not many prominent social media users sprang to her defence till Tuesday evening. On Monday, lyricist Hussain Haidry cited two tweets of Ranaut and tweeted: “If you are a blue tick account or with large following, I am not asking you to speak up against this. But please just quietly REPORT these two tweets. This is calling for mass violence. And directing it at Muslims.” Fashion designer Anand Bhushan said in a statement: “In view of certain events today, we have taken a decision to remove all collaboration images with Kangana Ranaut from our social media channels. We also pledge never to be associated with her in any capacity in the future. We, as a brand, do not support hate speech.” Ranaut responded with a video on Instagram titled, “Distressed, beyond words, death of democracy. important message for our government”, in which she demanded President’s rule in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Covid: Investigative blood tests prescribed for mild cases||Sections of doctors across India are prescribing investigative blood tests to many patients with mild Covid-19 that they say could provide early warnings of possible complications although the tests are not included in standard guidelines for mild illness. Two key tests — one measuring C reactive protein, a biochemical marker for inflammation, and the other measuring d-dimer, a marker that signals clotting-related complications — are part of investigations recommended in standard guidelines for patients with moderate Covid-19. The standard guidelines classify patients whose oxygen levels fall below 93 or 92 or whose respiratory rate is 24 or more breaths per minute as patients with “moderate” Covid-19 and recommend that they seek hospital care where they will be investigated for these markers. But doctors are increasingly asking many patients to test CRP and d-dimer levels on Day 5 or Day 6 after the start of symptoms even while at home amid growing concerns that hospital beds may not be available for patients who develop moderate disease. “Not all patients with mild disease require the tests, but we do prescribe them to patients whose fever continues beyond the third day, elderly patients, or patients who have other chronic health disorders,” said Vivekanand Nadkarni, a Pune-based doctor and specialist in tropical medicine. High CRP levels in Covid-19 patients, particularly in patients with otherwise normal blood cell counts, point to possible inflammation, while elevated d-dimer values may indicate that the patients are at an increased risk of blood clots that could lead to heart attacks or strokes. The standard guidelines recommend that such patients receive steroids to counter the inflammation and drugs called anti-coagulants to lower the risk of clotting-related complications. Nadkarni and other doctors say elevated levels of CRP or d-dimer taken in conjunction with the patients’ symptoms or other blood tests could help guide appropriate treatment even at home if patients are unable to find hospital beds. “We see patients whose oxygen levels remain 92-93 or higher, but who show abnormally high levels of CRP or d-dimer,” said Aakanksha Chawla, a pulmonary medicine specialist at the Apollo Indraprastha Hospital, New Delhi. “In such patients, we prescribe oral steroids or anti-coagulants at home.” Doctors say the goal of home-based therapy is to try and prevent patients from slipping into severe disease. Cities and towns across India have run short of hospital beds amid the Covid-19 epidemic’s second wave that has added on average 378,000 new patients every day over the past week, and raised the counts of active patients to over 3.4 million. Amid the shortages of hospital beds, home treatment for moderate illness is being practised on “an absolutely large scale”, Chawla told The Telegraph. “Patients are receiving oxygen, oral steroids and anti-coagulants at home.” Doctors caution that the tests need to be done at an appropriate time — ideally on Day 5 or Day 6 after the onset of symptoms, and, if considered needed, again between Day 12 and Day 14 — and doing them too early may not help. Nadkarni recalled a 30-year-old man who appeared to have mild symptoms and a persistent headache, but whose d-dimer levels were “very, very high” on Day 6 after the start of symptoms. He was prescribed an oral anti-coagulant at home and has since recovered. “Are we overprescribing these tests? Probably yes,” said Nadkarni. “But they do help us identify patients who might need extra interventions such as steroids or anti-coagulants. The tests shouldn’t be done too early, or too frequently, or not at all.” Multiple studies from China and the US during the pandemic’s early months last year had established the use of markers such as CRP and d-dimer, among others, as indicators for an increased risk of Covid-19 complications such as runaway inflammation or clots. Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 was suspended at the civic-run facilities of Ahmedabad on Tuesday because of unavailability of vaccines, officials said. According to a release issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), vaccination was also suspended for frontline and healthcare workers. The inoculation drive will resume once the AMC receives fresh vaccine stocks, the civic body said. The state had started vaccinating people in the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 1. The AMC said this was being carried out as per schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Congress slams Modi's obsession with Central Vista project ||When the “Sultan” should have built hospitals and ensured oxygen supply for Covid patients, he is building a palace for himself, the Congress said on Tuesday as it questioned once again the thousands of crores of rupees being spent on Narendra Modi’s Central Vista project at a time Indians are dying for lack of treatment. “Rs 13,450 crore for Central Vista. Or, for fully vaccinating 45 crore Indians. Or, for one crore oxygen cylinders. Or, to give two crore families NYAY of Rs 6,000. But, Prime Minister’s ego is bigger than people’s lives,” Rahul Gandhi wrote on Twitter, pointing out how the money being spent on the project, which includes a new house for the Prime Minister and a new Parliament building, could have been used. The project, for which Modi did a bhoomi pujan in December, has been categorised as an “essential service” and work on it continues even though Delhi is in lockdown. The Central Public Works Department has said the Parliament building will be complete by November 2022 and the Prime Minister’s new residence will be ready by December 2022, according to PTI. “Awaam ke paise se mauz karo (Enjoy yourself using public money). That’s Modi’s mindset,” Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said at a news conference. “We know him from Gujarat. When he became chief minister there, eight bungalows in the vicinity of the chief minister’s official residence were acquired. Crores of rupees were spent on renovation of the chief minister’s residence and one ‘sheesh mahal’ was also built for Modi’s personal use. A luxurious room with glass fittings; we don’t know what he used to do there. But he has the habit of living like Sultans,” Gohil, who is from Gujarat, added. Modi used to describe the UPA government as the “Delhi sultanate” before becoming the Prime Minister in what appeared to be an insinuation that the Congress was pro-Muslim. The Hindutva ecosystem relishes unflattering tales about Sultans — Muslim emperors — building castles while ignoring mass suffering. Gohil said: “Even in the secretariat, a new block was built for a posh office of the chief minister…. The Sultan’s priorities haven’t changed. When he should have built hospitals and arranged oxygen for dying patients on a war footing, he is focused on building a palace for himself.” The Congress leader continued: “When they should have been planning for the second wave and oxygen crisis as forewarned by experts, the government’s own empowered group and Parliament’s Standing Committee, the Sultan and Wazir (a reference to home minister Amit Shah) ventured out to grab power in Bengal. Now they are obsessed with the new palace. They are a blot on democracy.” Rahul Gandhi, who since February 2020 has been repeatedly warning of the threat from Covid and the need to prepare both the healthcare system and the economy to handle the pandemic, said the only way to stop the virus now was a lockdown. “I just want to make it clear that a lockdown is now the only option because of a complete lack of strategy by Government of India. They allowed, rather, they actively helped the virus reach this stage where there’s no other way to stop it. A crime has been committed against India,” the former Congress president said. A lockdown is what many health experts, including Dr Anthony Fauci of the US, are advising to stem the devastating second surge that has left crematoriums overflowing across Indian cities. Modi, who had clamped down a countrywide lockdown on a four-hour notice in March last year when cases were far fewer and extended it repeatedly for months, has now told the states to avoid a lockdown and use it only as the last resort. “The Government of India doesn’t get it. The only way to stop the spread of Corona now is a full lockdown — with the protection of NYAY for the vulnerable sections. The Government’s inaction is killing many innocent people,” Rahul said. NYAY refers to a scheme to transfer Rs 6,000 a month into the bank accounts of the poor who are thrown out of work in a lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Covid: India’s health research agency calls to stop RT-PCR tests before inter-state travel||India’s health research agency on Tuesday recommended a stop to Covid-19 RT-PCR tests before inter-state travel and asked for 24x7 booths for rapid antigen tests nationwide in efforts to scale up surveillance at a time labs are under intense stress. The Indian Council of Medical Research, in a fresh advisory aimed at optimising and scaling up testing, said the existing labs were facing challenges to meet testing targets under the “extraordinary case loads” and staff also becoming infected with Covid-19. The current daily testing capacity is 1.5 million, but the nationwide positivity rate — the proportion detected positive among those tested — is above 20 per cent. A high positivity rate implies that India needs to increase testing to try to reduce the figure to less than 5 per cent. The ICMR said RT-PCR —the standard and high-reliability diagnostic test — should not be repeated on anyone who has tested positive either through RT-PCR or through the alternative but less reliable rapid antigen test (RAT). “The need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel may be completely removed to reduce the load on laboratories,” the ICMR said. “Non-essential travel and inter-state travel of symptomatic individuals with Covid-19 or flu-like symptoms should essentially be avoided to reduce the risk of infection.” The ICMR said there was a need to improve access and scale up RAT-based diagnosis, which has the advantage of quick detection of cases within 15 to 30 minutes and allows prompt isolation early to curb further transmission. The agency has asked government and private healthcare facilities to offer RAT and set up dedicated 24X7 RAT testing booths in diverse places such as resident welfare association locations, schools, colleges, community centres and other areas. It has also asked district administrations to open drive-through RAT testing facilities. Public health experts say the larger the epidemic grows, the greater the strain on testing labs, already evident through long waiting periods to return testing results. Patients in some cities have had to wait for up to four or five days before getting their test results. India currently has 2,506 molecular testing labs offering RT-PCR or comparable diagnostic tests for Covid-19, but labs in multiple cities have become overwhelmed by samples in the wake of the sharp surge in numbers of cases — from a seven-day average of daily new cases of 73,000 a month ago to over 378,000 on Tuesday. “The daily infections add pressure on the testing infrastructure,” said a public health specialist. “The number of daily tests required, ideally, taking into account contacts of cases, will exceed the number of daily new infections detected which is now over 3 lakh a day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Kejriwal announces free rations for two months for Delhi’s 72 lakh card-holders ||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced free rations for two months for the state’s 72 lakh ration card-holders and a dole for taxi and autorickshaw drivers, which many termed too little too late to stop migrants from leaving amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. Kejriwal, however, was silent on the additional 69.6 lakh electronic ration card beneficiaries who had been given provisions during last year’s countrywide lockdown. Kejriwal said in a webcast: “Last week we made a special announcement for the labourers that we will deposit Rs 5,000 each in their accounts and this has been already sent to their accounts. We’d also announced that we’d help those (construction) labourers falling ill and whose RT-PCR reports turn out positive.… Today we have taken two major decisions. Firstly, free ration will be provided to the around 72 lakh ration card-holders of Delhi for the next two months. Having said that, one should not assume that the lockdown will continue for the next two months.” The Delhi government has set up 150 food distribution centres and 2,10,684 construction workers will receive the cash transfers. The chief minister said: “Just as last year, when the lockdown was imposed, all of Delhi’s auto drivers and taxi drivers will be given Rs 5,000 each by the Delhi government.” Sheikh Hamidul Islam from Bengal has been an embroiderer in Delhi for 30 years and is someone many from the profession go to for advice. Despite his long innings in the capital, his family of four does not have a ration card. Hamidul told The Telegraph: “We were in Bengal for four months as my sons only have online classes now in their (Delhi) school. We came back on April 10 just before the lockdown (was imposed on April 19 in the capital). I own our house here, but for two years my ration card application is pending even though my Aadhaar card is from Delhi.” Last year, Hamidul and other families in the tailoring business in the area were given rations by CPM labour arm Citu until the Delhi government issued them temporary ration coupons and e-cards and allowed rations to be given to pending applicants. This time 20 out of these 28 families at a slum in South Delhi’s Chattarpur have left. “I can’t go back to Midnapore as I am broke. I can’t even pay rent to the owner of the workshop premises at Shahpur Jat. We’re surviving on savings and help from friends. I feel bad to ask the party (CPM) for help as I know the comrades have nothing left to give,” Hamidul told this newspaper. Dharmendra Kumar, president of the Hawkers Joint Action Committee in New Delhi, told this newspaper: “Later generations of migrants do not have documentation in Delhi or the place of origin. Government schemes generally favour property owners, and without their cooperation you can’t get a ration card. Most people eligible for rations are tenants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Assam polls 2021: BJP under pressure to consider a change of chief minister||The BJP’s central leadership has come under pressure to consider a change of chief minister in Assam, where the party along with its allies has returned to power for a second term albeit with a reduced majority, insiders said. According to the sources, the BJP is under pressure to replace incumbent chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal with Himanta Biswa Sarma, whose clout with the top leadership in Delhi is well known. Also, Himanta wields immense influence across the Northeast and had held important portfolios in the outgoing government, such as finance, planning and development, health and family welfare, education and PWD. “We may go for a change of leadership in Assam. A central observer will soon be sent to start the process of electing the legislature party leader,” a BJP leader said. Himanta, a Congress stalwart, crossed over to the BJP in 2015 and is widely known to have impressed then BJP chief Amit Shah with his “political management skills”. Shah, the party insiders said, acknowledges Himanta’s contribution in aiding the BJP’s expansion across the Northeast, a region ideologically important for the party. Himanta had also been the convener of the North East Democratic Alliance, a forum aimed at bringing regional parties under one umbrella led by the BJP. Sources close to Himanta claimed that he always had his sights set on the chief minister’s post. “He has delivered a lot for the party and also proved his loyalty to the leadership. Now he is seeking his pound of flesh,” a BJP leader said. The Himanta factor had led the BJP to keep the question of the next chief minister ambiguous during the polls. The party did not proclaim that Sonowal would continue to be chief minister. A section of BJP leaders, however, indicated that it may not be easy for the central leadership to hoist Himanta, since the party usually desists from giving top posts to people who have crossed over from other parties. Himanta’s supporters, however, have countered this contention, pointing out that Sonowal too had come to the BJP from the Asom Gana Parishad. The BJP insiders said the central leadership had been confronted with the difficult situation of choosing between Sonowal and Himanta. The party cannot brush aside the utility of Himanta, whose clout across the Northeast is well known and has also been tested in the past five years. Sources said that if Shah had his way, he could push for Himanta to be made chief minister. “Amitbhai believes Himanta is super-efficient. We have heard him say ‘Himanta master aadmi hai’,” a BJP leader said. The defeat of the BJP in Bengal, however, has come as a personal blow to Shah and some in the party feel he may not be able to push Himanta’s name with authority. “Finally, the issue will be resolved by Narendra Modiji. Once he indicates his choice, the newly elected MLAs would be asked to endorse it unanimously,” a leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Covid: HC orders Centre to ensure oxygen for Delhi ||Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to show cause as to why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against it for failing to comply with the order on supply of oxygen to Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients. “You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not,” the high court told the central government. It added that the Supreme Court has already directed, and now the high court is also saying that the Centre will have to supply 700MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. “You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don’t know. Are you living in ivory towers?” the bench said. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also rejected the Centre’s submission that Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the light of existing medical infrastructure. It said the Supreme Court’s detailed order on April 30 directed the central government to provide 700MT of oxygen per day to Delhi and not just 490MT. “We had told you contempt is the last thing in our mind but it is certainly in our mind and don’t drive us to that last point. We mean business now. Enough is enough. Be clear on this. We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way you won’t supply 700MT. “There is (the) Supreme Court order and now we are also saying that you will have to supply 700MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. We would not hear anything except compliance,” an annoyed bench orally observed. The bench, which heard for nearly five hours the matter relating to oxygen crisis and other Covid-19 related issues that Delhi is grappling with, said: “We see grim reality everyday of people not able to secure oxygen or ICU beds in hospitals” which have reduced beds due to the gas shortage. “We, therefore, direct the central government to show cause why contempt be not initiated for not only non-compliance of our order of May as also of order of the Supreme Court dated April 30. To answer the said notice, we direct the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra (senior central government officers) tomorrow (Wednesday),” it said. The bench also said just because the Delhi government earlier demanded less oxygen, therefore the people of this city should not suffer and the Centre will not ignore the revised requirement and will let people die. On the submission of additional solicitor-general Chetan Sharma that the compliance affidavit of April 30 order will be filed in the Supreme Court by Wednesday morning, the bench said that “we fail to understand what good a compliance affidavit will do when as a matter of fact 700MT of oxygen is not delivered to Delhi. Even the earlier allocated 490MT and revised 590MT is not delivered even for a single day”. Sharma submitted that the apex court has not directed supply of 700MT of oxygen per day to Delhi. The court disagreed with him and said a plain reading of the top court’s order showed that it had directed the central government to supply 700MT of liquid medical oxygen by making good the deficit. The bench noted that the apex court’s order recorded the Delhi government counsel’s submission that as against the demand of 700MT of oxygen per day, manufacturers have been able to supply only 440MT. It said the apex court noted that the projected demand of Delhi in coming days will be 976MT of oxygen by increasing the medical infrastructure and that the situation must be remedied forthwith. It asked as to what does this direction of the apex court mean and what was the doubt in it. “This itself is sufficient to show that the Supreme Court has directed that Delhi should be provided with 700MT of oxygen per day. If there was any doubt, it could be cleared by further reading of the paragraph.” The bench said the top court had noted the assurance given by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta that the national capital will not suffer and its demands of oxygen will be met. However, the high court said this assurance has not been met and it has seen how big and small hospitals have been rushing to court on SOS basis due to lack of oxygen to treat critical patients. “It pains us that the aspect of supply of oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi should be viewed in the way it has been done by the Centre,” the bench said. It added that on one hand there is need to augment capacities to meet the rising numbers, while on the other hand, the existing infrastructure is crumbling and available beds cannot be put to use. After the court dictated its order, Sharma said that he has taken the order and it may be uploaded on Wednesday morning only. To this, the bench said: “No, we will upload it today itself.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||BSP MP Danish Ali seeks restoration of MPLADS||Bahujan Samaj Party MP Danish Ali has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking restoration of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS), which was suspended for two fiscals in early April last year to free up budgeted funds to deal with the additional financial burden on the exchequer owing to Covid-19. Pointing out that his constituency Amroha in Uttar Pradesh has not been provided any “notable medical facility’’ using money from PM-CARES — a fund created last year to draw donations for providing relief to the people — or the suspended amount of MPLADS, Ali makes out a case for decentralisation of healthcare. “Decentralisation of the responsibility of providing healthcare is very important in this hour of crisis. The handing over of funds of MPLAD to all MPs and other public representatives who know their area well is a very important step in enabling them to provide relief to the people of their area,’’ the Lok Sabha MP said in his letter to the Prime Minister. According to him, Amroha is in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic. The disease has spread from village to village but there is a huge shortage of medicines, beds, oxygen and other medical facilities necessary to deal with the virus. “The district administration is expressing its helplessness in providing relief to the people of my constituency and saving their lives,’’ Ali said. “In view of the catastrophic situation created by the second wave of Covid, as a representative of my people, I request you to immediately release the funds to all the MPs of the country... so that I and all other members of Parliament could try to save the lives by setting up oxygen plants...’’ he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Puri: Upper caste villagers resrict temple entry for Dalits||Upper caste people in a Puri village have drawn a line on the premises of a temple and forbidden Dalits from crossing it in yet another instance of caste atrocity that researchers and activists say has been exacerbated by State apathy to stamp out the social evil. The three Dalit families of Tinikudi village in Odisha have been told not to breach the line, which is far from the sanctum sanctorum of Hatakeswar Shiv temple. Harekrushna Mallick, one of the Dalits, alleged that they had been complaining to police for months but to no avail, and that villagers had assaulted them for seeking help. Earlier, these families were able to walk to a point from where the priest was visible, but the line was drawn nine months ago. Tinikudi has 150 families belonging to the dominant peasant castes. Mallick, an elected member of the Puri zilla parishad and also part of the district vigilance monitoring committee on cases related to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST), said he had approached the police on a number of occasions. “The police did not register an FIR and asked the two groups to discuss and amicably sort out the matter. A meeting was held but the villagers did not agree to withdraw their restrictions. We have been seeking police help in vain all these months,” Mallick said. Last Friday evening, several villagers allegedly attacked the Dalit families, unhappy over their decision to go to the police. Mallick said four persons suffered injuries. “We had requested the police for protection. But they came only after we had been attacked,” he said. The inspector-in-charge of Puri Sadar police station, Sumati Mohanty, said an FIR had been filed under the SC-ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and an investigation was on. No arrest has been made yet. Kelucharan Baral, a villager, claimed the Dalits had not been attacked, but defended the decision to draw a line at the temple. “It is not a government temple. It is a private temple managed by us. We have engaged a priest. We have allowed the Dalits up to a particular point. They should follow that,” Baral said. Social activists said caste-based crimes without the fear of the law had become common across the country and that the police generally did not act on complaints. In 2015, Parliament amended the SC-ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, to provide for immediate arrest of the accused, the filing of a chargesheet within 60 days of the lodging of a case and the conduct of the trial within the next 60 days in exclusive special courts. The amendments also provided for the compensation of victims. Rahul Singh, general secretary of the National Dalit Movement for Justice (NDMJ), a civil society group fighting for SCs and STs, said the police machinery was dominated by people from the privileged castes and they usually tried to brush caste atrocities under the carpet. “As per the law, police officers should not suggest mutual settlement. They should lodge an FIR and take immediate action. But the police put pressure for amicable settlement. The settlement reached through discussions always favours the accused as such meetings are dominated by people from the privileged castes,” Singh said. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) compiled during a study by the NDMJ show a steady rise in the number of cases of caste atrocities despite alleged police attempts to discourage the filing of FIRs. In 2018, the country witnessed 42,793 registered cases of atrocities against Dalits. The number increased to 45,935 in 2019, according to the NCRB. The police have often been accused of delaying the investigation and the filing of the chargesheet. In 2018, 59,000 cases were pending for investigation while the number rose to 62,000 the next year. The police had filed chargesheets in 35,000 cases each in 2018 and 2019. The conviction rate in cases registered under the SC-ST Act was about 25 per cent between 2009 and 2018. “The State as an entity is embedded in the atrocities against Dalits. There is an attempt to not register cases. Once registered, the police will delay arrest and filing of the chargesheet. The hearings will be delayed. At every level, there is an attempt to defuse the cases,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Jagmohan Malhotra no more, faultlines resurface ||Jagmohan Malhotra, whose rule with an iron hand was seen as one of the main reasons for the intensification of militancy in Jammu and Kashmir but who had been hailed as a “saviour” by Valley Pandits, passed away in New Delhi on Tuesday following a spell of illness. He was 93. No person who has ruled Kashmir over the decades has evoked as much derision or praise in the Valley, depending on which side one talks to, as Jagmohan. On his death, the deep religious faultlines that have defined Kashmir for the past three decades resonated afresh in the Valley. Jagmohan was twice appointed as governor of Jammu and Kashmir and both his tenures were marked by controversies. It was his second term, which lasted for barely 127 days in 1990, that was notorious for some of the most brutal episodes in Kashmir’s azaadi movement, including a spate of massacres, the progression of militancy into a mass phenomenon and the migration of Kashmiri Pandits. Kashmiri Pandits on Tuesday lavished praise on Jagmohan, calling him a saviour, but for Muslims he remained a tormentor. Pandits blame militants, who enjoyed popular support, for their migration, and hail Jagmohan for encouraging and facilitating their exodus to “safer” places outside Kashmir. Muslims, on the other hand, believe that Jagmohan helped the exodus so that he could brutally crush militancy without having to worry about retributive action on Pandits. “Jagmohan is dead. But nothing has been forgotten. He will continue to be remembered as New Delhi’s man who presided over widespread killings of Muslims in Kashmir in the early 90s. Sadly, his ideological progeny continue to thrive in ‘social activism’, policy making & even media,” tweeted Kashmiri journalist Jahangir Ali. The former bureaucrat took over as governor of Jammu and Kashmir on January 19, 1990, despite fierce opposition from then chief minister Farooq Abdullah. Abdullah, whose government had been dismissed by Jagmohan during his first tenure in 1984, became the first casualty that day as he resigned in protest. Late that day, amidst a curfew, thousands of Kashmiri Pandits started migrating to other parts of the country, most never to return. Militancy was only a few months old before Jagmohan’s second stint as governor. Srinagar those days was seething with anger as it faced the first major government crackdown. Jagmohan’s appointment added fuel to the fire and mosques across the city resonated with anti-India protests overnight. On January 21, as President’s rule took hold under Jagmohan, thousands defied a curfew to protest the arrest of dozens of youths by security forces, and other excesses. They were rained with bullets by the forces at Gow Kadal bridge near the Srinagar city centre, killing over 50 youths and injuring dozens more. The iron-fist policy backfired. Unprecedented protests followed and thousands left for PoK to pick up arms. The government initially appeared helpless in dealing with the protests but it soon deployed repressive measures, leading to more “massacres”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||‘Need: 976 tonnes; Supply: 393 tonnes of oxygen’ flags Delhi Jal Board||Delhi Jal Board vice chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said 41 hospitals with around 7,000 people on oxygen support sent SOS calls to the state government on Monday. Chadha also said that the national capital received an average of 393 metric tonnes of oxygen a day last week against the requirement of 976MT. “Forty-one hospitals, with 7,142 people on oxygen support, sent SOS calls to the Delhi government on Monday,” Chadha said, adding that “Team Kejriwal” promptly responded to all the SOS calls and delivered 21.3MT of oxygen to these hospitals. The AAP leader, who has been leading efforts to mitigate the oxygen crisis in Delhi hospitals, rued that 393MT is just 40 per cent of the total demand. Chadha said the city got 433MT of oxygen, just 44 per cent of the total requirement, on Monday. He said the Delhi government has created “SOS reserves” which are used when hospitals run out of oxygen and the suppliers are not able to provide refills. “Team Kejriwal is working round-the-clock to ensure that no life is lost in such a situation,” the AAP legislator added. Several hospitals here continue to grapple with the shortage of medical oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike every passing day. On May 1, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at south Delhi’s Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon. The tragic incident occurred in less than two weeks of 20 coronavirus patients dying at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 losing their lives at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, amid the oxygen crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||BJP trails Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls ||The BJP is trailing the Samajwadi Party in panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, including in Ayodhya and Varanasi that are politically and ideologically of prime significance to the ruling party. In Mathura, another district whose religious significance the BJP is tapping into with increasing vigour, the party lost to Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). In what is being seen as a major setback for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, where the Yogi Adityanath government has faced severe criticism for alleged misgovernance, its crackdown on dissent, repression of the marginalised and its handling of the pandemic, the party’s tally was 10 less than principal challenger Samajwadi Party in seats whose results were announced on Tuesday. Close to 13,500 people have died in the pandemic, with ceaselessly burning pyres suggesting the real death toll is much higher. There has been an acute crisis of lifesaving oxygen but the Adityanath government has been in denial and has been threatening hospitals and those highlighting pictures of pyres, inviting charges of cruelty and highhandedness. While the BJP had won 750 block-level zilla panchayat wards, the Samajwadis had pocketed 760. A total of 3,051 wards had gone to the polls in the crucial heartland state where Assembly elections are due next year. The results of the remaining seats are to be declared on Wednesday. Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party appeared to have been inspired by Mamata Banerjee’s resounding drubbing of the BJP in Bengal and asserted that it would upstage the ruling party in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. It is largely believed that with the state machinery at its disposal, the ruling party has an edge over its rivals in rural body elections, which made the BJP’s performance look even more lacklustre. What would have come as a shock for Adityanath and the BJP was the party’s crushing defeat at the hands of the Samajwadi Party in Ayodhya, core to the saffron ecosystem’s ideological agenda and the launch pad of its meteoric rise in national politics. Against the backdrop of the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple, a promise that had been intrinsic to its rise to power nationally and at the state level, the BJP managed to win only six of the 40 zilla panchayat wards in Ayodhya, with the Samajwadi Party bagging 24. The Bahujan Samaj Party won five seats while the remaining were pouched by smaller parties and Independents. In the previous elections, the BJP had won 22 and the Samajwadis eight. In Varanasi (Kashi), Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, the BJP won seven of the 40 wards and the Samajwadi Party emerged victorious in 15, an exact reversal of fortunes when compared with the results of the previous elections. The BSP won five seats. In Mathura, the BJP won nine of the 33 wards, with the BSP getting 11. The Samajwadis won one seat. The BJP, the RSS and their co-travellers have been claiming that mosques in the vicinity of the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and the Krishna Janmasthan (birthplace) shrine in Mathura had come up after parts of the Hindu places of worship had been demolished. Multiple court cases have been filed seeking the takeover of the mosques’ land, although the shrines have coexisted peacefully for centuries. Of the total zilla panchayat seats whose results have been announced, the BSP has won 381 and the Congress 76. The rest have been bagged by the Rashtriya Lok Dal and other smaller parties and Independent candidates. The majority of the Independents had been previously with the BJP, but left when the party refused to support them for the elections. The BJP is ahead in Bundelkhand and Rohilkhand. It has done comparatively better in western Uttar Pradesh too, where the RLD has performed well because of its support base of Jat farmers and the peasants’ movement against the BJP. The Samajwadis have been more successful in the state’s east and the central region. BJP spokesperson Manish Shukla said: “The panchayat elections were held in an extraordinary situation. There was fear of Covid everywhere. We must thank the voters. The issues in the Assembly polls are different. The BJP is doing a great job in the state and will win the 2022 elections.” Rajendra Chaudhary, a Samajwadi spokesperson, said: “Mamata Banerjee defeated the BJP in the Bengal Assembly polls. The panchayat election results here are a bold indication that we will oust the BJP in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||BJP veterans attack state chief for Kerala poll rout||The poll debacle in Kerala where the BJP lost its lone seat has sparked outbursts within the party with veterans coming out against the current crop of leaders, especially the state president for contesting in two constituencies and shuttling in a helicopter. Senior RSS leader E.N. Nandakumar reminded the state BJP leaders that, “Election is not child’s play”. Not only did the BJP-led NDA lose its lone seat that it won in the 2016 state polls, its vote share has shrunk from 14.96 per cent to 12.4 per cent, or four lakh votes, between the two state elections. From a mere 6.03 per cent vote share in the 2011 state polls, the NDA grew to 10.81 in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, and then to 15.54 in the 2019 parliamentary polls. It was the steady growth in vote share that hitherto provided a relief for the state BJP leaders who consistently failed in impressing the Malayali electorate. Nandakumar, a member of the board of the National Book Trust, slammed state BJP chief K. Surendran for his “buffoonery” in contesting from Konni and Manjeshwar and hopping between the two constituencies in a rented helicopter. Nandakumar took to Facebook to lambast the state leadership in the faction-ridden party unit: “Contesting in more than one seat to be like Modi. Flying around in a rented helicopter in this tiny Kerala to exhibit buffoonery.” He described the BJP leaders as “Greedy fortune seekers who hunt for new constituencies,” and remarked: “They deserve to lose.” “Please don’t destroy this organisation built by great people who surrendered their lives in doing so. Save the state and the organisation by quitting at the earliest,” he exhorted the state leadership. Veteran BJP leader and one of the early architects of the state unit, P.P. Mukundan, said: “We have slipped back by 15 years” with the debacle. “Those who joined us will leave if we don’t realise we have slipped back 15 years. Why did Major Ravi leave us?” he asked alluding to the departure of the former army officer and career filmmaker who joined the Congress before the election. Former state BJP president C.K. Padmanabhan, who contested against Pinarayi Vijayan from Dharmadam, admitted that not enough discussions were held before Surendran decided to contest in two constituencies. “I have no clarity on the situations that led to (Surendran) contesting in two places. There were no proper discussions on this matter,” he told a channel. The soft-spoken BJP veteran, who hails from Vijayan’s home district Kannur, reminded about an instruction from the central leadership to ensure all candidates spend enough time in one’s own constituency. “In some cases it did not happen,” Padmanabhan said alluding to Surendran’s chopper-hopping. While Surendran finished second in Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district, he was pushed to third in Konni in Pathanamthitta district where the Sabarimala temple is located. The usually reticent Padmanabhan came out against the party’s strategy and sought an “honest introspection” while admitting Vijayan’s good performance. “Pinarayi Vijayan has done a lot of good things. It is not right to always find fault with them (Left). There needs to be an Opposition that would admit something is right when it is done,” he said, taking a line totally different from the one his party has taken after the younger crop of leaders took control. “The Pinarayi (Vijayan) government has displayed much more efficiency than other states in handling this Covid crisis. Let Pinarayi Vijayan continue. There is nothing wrong with that,” said Padmanabhan. Pushed to the wall, Surendran on Monday accepted responsibility for the dismal show. “I accept the basic responsibility of the performance,” he told a news conference in Kozhikode and welcomed any action from the leadership. “If the central leadership thinks it is the fault of the state president, they can take appropriate action,” he said. Asked about the strident criticism from within the party, he said: “I had to use a helicopter since I contested from two places.” “We did not lose Nemom, Palakkad and Kazhakoottam because I contested in two places. Yet we will examine the comments (from BJP leaders) and move forward,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||Tested Covid positive, man dies by suicide fearing social stigma||A 65-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly died by suicide in Odisha on Tuesday fearing social stigma. Jagabandhu Bag was found hanging from a tree in a mango orchard at Sapuinali village in Angul district, around 210km from here. Bag, a daily labourer, had tested Covid-positive on May 2. An ambulance had come to take him to the local hospital but he refused to go and preferred to stay at home. As his condition deteriorated, his family members put him in home isolation and the elderly man faced severe mental trauma, particularly after his wife did not look after him. “He was disturbed when his two sons put him in isolation and did not turn up to look after him. Today (Tuesday) early morning, he left his home and walked for nearly two kilometres and hanged himself from a tree in a mango orchard. Local people informed the police about the incident,” Gyana Ranjan Samal, inspector in-charge of Chendipada police station, told The Telegraph. His relatives did not turn up for his cremation. “After we convinced his two sons to accompany their father’s body, they agreed. People are in a state of panic (due to the spread of Covid-19),” said the police officer. On April 29, an octogenarian woman who had fever for a few days and had been left to fend for herself by her family and her neighbours suspecting that she had been infected with coronavirus, committed suicide by setting herself on fire in Puri district. Dr Seema Parija, assistant professor of psychiatry, SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, told this newspaper: “There is panic among people regarding Covid infection. People are scared they might catch the virus. Those who are exhibiting symptoms are anxious that they might have contracted Covid-19. “Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 are worried if home isolation is enough, when and how to get admitted to hospital, how to monitor oxygen saturation level and about which medicine to take. Those who have recovered keep on worrying about the health of their family members and whether they will catch the infection again.” On people taking the extreme step, Dr Parija said: “This is mainly due to misinformation, myths and lack of social support. The recovery rate in our country is good and people should remain optimistic about treatment outcomes. “People should support each other and shun stigma related to the disease by getting information from credible sources. And wherever necessary, people should not hesitate to talk to a mental health professional.” Amid the surge in Covid cases, the Odisha government on Tuesday announced summer vacation for colleges from Wednesday. Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 479,752 on Tuesday as 8,216 more people tested positive for the infection, while 15 fresh fatalities pushed the coronavirus death toll to 2,088. In order to check the spread of coronavirus infection, the state government has decided to impose a 14-day lockdown from Wednesday. However, all essential services and home deliveries will be allowed during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
