06-05-2021||India||Modi’s failure pushing India towards complete lockdown, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and zero strategy of the Centre is pushing the country towards a complete lockdown. Gandhi said he was against a total lockdown and urged the government to provide a financial package for the poor. "Last year's unplanned lockdown was a fatal attack on the people and that is why I am against a complete lockdown. "But the prime minister's failure and zero strategy on part of the central government are pushing the country towards a complete lockdown," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "In such a situation, it is essential to immediately provide a financial package and all kinds of help to the poor people," he also said. In another tweet, Gandhi hit out at the government over the hike in petrol and diesel prices, saying elections are over and the loot has started again. The Congress leader has been calling for a financial package for the poor and has asked the government to provide Rs 6,000 into their accounts to tide over the current crisis. Gandhi had on Wednesday said that imposing a total lockdown is the only solution in the current situation. India has seen a record number of 4.12 lakh cases and around 4,000 deaths in the last 24 hours and most states have imposed restrictions or imposed a lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
06-05-2021||India||Third wave imminent, create buffer stock of oxygen, Supreme Court tells Centre||The Supreme Court Thursday said the country needs to be prepared for the third wave of Covid-19 which experts say could be more harmful, especially for children, and emphasised upon the need to create a buffer stock of oxygen. It asked the Centre not to reduce oxygen supply to Delhi from 700MT till further orders and ensure that rationalisation exercise is completed while taking into account the pan-India perspective. The top court said that people in Delhi are dying despite efforts being made to treat Covid-19 patients and there is also no denying that many have lost their lives due to a shortage of oxygen supply. It made clear to the Centre and Delhi government that it will not allow the top court of the country to be a ground of recrimination between the two as both indulged in a blame game on the issue of allocation and supply of oxygen. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said: “We need to prepare for the third surge of Covid-19 which may have altogether different parameters. We have to be ready for that. We have been reading that some experts have said that the third surge will be more harmful especially to children.” "We understand children are more resilient as compared to elders but we have to also consider that they themselves will not go to hospitals and their parents will have to take them making them vulnerable. The bench warned both Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, and senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, that the Supreme Court being the top Constitutional court of the country cannot be allowed to be a ground of recrimination. “We are making it clear that this is not an adversarial litigation. We are not going to allow this court to become a ground of recrimination between two governments. We won't allow any recrimination to be made against Delhi government or the Central government. All we want is that everyone should work in a cooperative manner,” the bench told Mehta and Mehra. Mehra further said that despite the top court's direction, the Centre has failed to allocate requisite Oxygen to the state even on Thursday as per their estimate, a day after it had given 730MT. He said that the Centre has tried to put the Delhi government in the dock in every affidavit they have filed before the courts claimed that other states like Madhya Pradesh and Punjab were given more Oxygen than their demands. At the outset, Mehta told the bench that the Centre has complied with top court's order and instead of 700 MT oxygen ordered, it had ensured a supply of 730 MT to Delhi on Wednesday for treating Covid-19 patients. He said that a survey was conducted in 56 major hospitals of the national capital on May 4 and it revealed that they had a significant stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Mehta said that the unloading of oxygen tankers brought to Delhi is taking too long as the vehicles need to be sent back for refilling to the eastern corridors. He said if the Centre keeps on giving 700MT of oxygen to Delhi, it will deprive other states of equitable distribution as the demand of 700MT is not correct. The bench said people and hospitals are making SOS calls including on social media that they have very limited oxygen left or they are running out of it, which is creating panic. "People and even some big hospitals of the national capital are making SOS calls about a shortage of oxygen supply. Why are you not creating a buffer stock? If as you claim, Delhi is not using or needs 700MT and only 490MT is needed, then this excess 200MT can be used to create a buffer stock, the bench told Mehta. “There can be a centralised pool of buffer stock, like if any hospital runs out of the oxygen, then it can immediately contact to replenish its supply which can save lives and avoid creating panic,” it said. Mehta said there was no dearth of medical grade oxygen in the country but without blaming anybody, there are some lacunae with the Delhi government efforts in distributing the gas internally. He suggested that an audit of oxygen supply and demand be conducted across the country, which would clear the actual picture of which state needs how much gas and how much is allocated to it. The bench said, “Your (Centre) formula of oxygen allocation seriously needs to be revamped. Although the court does not mean disrespect to the experts who devised that formula but it needs to be revamped. There are many Covid positive people who are in their houses but also need oxygen “. It said the creation of buffer stocks like was done in Mumbai, where several centralised points were made and it was publicised properly that if any hospital needed oxygen they could contact them, will assuage the people to a great extent and save lives. “No one can deny that people have not died due to shortage of oxygen. We accept that not all lives are lost due to want of oxygen but still many have lost their lives. It's a fact,” the bench observed. The top court said the Centre will also have to consider the situation not only in small cities and metropolitan cities but also in rural areas where people are suffering for want of oxygen. “Have you, being a central government, devised a mechanism to check how oxygen is being distributed. Have you checked whether it is not black marketed or have it reached the required hospital? Have you fixed any accountability",” the bench asked Mehta. The Solicitor General said that health is a state subject and it is they who decide how to distribute oxygen and how much to distribute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
06-05-2021||India||Modi reviews Covid situation in the country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a comprehensive review of the public health response to COVID-19 where he said states should be given help and guidance for ramping up healthcare infrastructure, while the need for ensuring holistic containment measures was also discussed. During the review, the prime minister also stressed the need to sensitise states so that the speed of vaccination against COVID-19 doesn't come down and was briefed that around 31 per cent of the eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose, according to a statement issued by the Prima Minister's Office. The prime minister was given a detailed picture on the COVID-19 outbreak in various states and districts, and was informed about the 12 states which have more than 1 lakh active cases, the PMO said. He was also apprised about the districts with high burden of the disease, the statement said. Modi reviewed the progress of vaccination and the roadmap for scaling up production of vaccines in the next few months. During the comprehensive review of the COVID-19 related situation in the country, the prime minister was informed that around 17.7 crore vaccines have been supplied to the states. Modi also reviewed state-wise trends on vaccine wastage, the statement said. Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in inoculation must not be diverted for other duties, the prime minister said. Modi was also briefed about the ramping up of healthcare infrastructure by the states. He directed that states should be given help and guidance about leading indicators to ramp up healthcare infrastructure, the PMO said. The need to ensure quick and holistic containment measures was also discussed, it said. Modi noted that an advisory was sent to the states to identify districts of concern where case positivity is 10 per cent or more and bed occupancy is more than 60 per cent on either oxygen supported or ICU beds. The prime minister also reviewed the availability of medicines and was briefed about the rapid augmenting of production of medicines including Remdesivir, according to the PMO. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Commerce and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, among other ministers and top officials, were present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
06-05-2021||India||After Delhi finally receives oxygen, Kejriwal thanks Modi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the national capital received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 5. In a letter, Kejriwal said that it was for the first time the national capital received more than 700 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas. "Delhi has a consumption of 700 metric tonnes of oxygen on a daily basis. We have been urging the Centre on a regular basis to give us 700 metric tonnes. It was for the first time yesterday that Delhi received 730 metric tonnes," he said in the letter in Hindi. He requested the prime minister that the national capital should be given this quantity everyday. "I thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of Delhiites. I request you that Delhi should be given at least this much oxygen on a daily basis and there should not be any reduction in this quantity. The whole of Delhi will be grateful to you," he said. Kejriwal also requested hospitals to increase Covid beds that they had to cut down due to a shortage of the life-saving gas in the past few days. “If 700 MT of daily oxygen supply is ensured by the Centre, Delhi government can set up around 9,000-9,500 more oxygen beds,” he said. He urged hospitals that were forced to cut down the number of oxygen beds due to shortage of the gas in recent days, to increase it now to the previous level. This way, he added, 1,000-2,000 more beds will be added, he said. Kejriwal said 35.74 lakh vaccine doses had been administered in Delhi.so far. Around 28 lakh have received a single dose and 7.76 lakh both doses of the vaccine, he said. The chief minister cited "enthusiasm" among the youth for vaccines, saying 1.30 lakh people aged 18 years and above have been vaccinated in Delhi in the last three days. Hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs have been sending out SOS messages on social media about their depleting oxygen supplies. On May 1, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at south Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon. The tragic incident occurred in less than two weeks of 20 coronavirus patients dying at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, amid the oxygen crisis in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Press Council urges Centre, state govts to declare journalists 'Covid warriors'||The Press Council of India on Thursday reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state governments that journalists be included in the category of 'COVID warriors' and also given insurance cover. In a statement, the print media watchdog commended the governments of Odisha, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh who have considered journalists among "frontline workers for their hard work in this pandemic situation" and have extended financial help to them. The Press Council of India (PCI) reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state/Union territory governments regarding insurance of journalists and for including journalists in the category of COVID Warriors. While reiterating its resolution of September last year, the PCI urged all state governments, Union territories and the central government to frame and implement a group insurance scheme for the journalists on the lines of the policy framed by the Haryana government. The Council also recommended to the central, state governments and the Union territories to include the journalists in the category of 'COVID warriors' like doctors, confer them with the same benefits and give immediate financial assistance to the families of all those journalists who died due to COVID-19. The Council, therefore, urges the central government as well as state/UT governments to take necessary steps for the welfare of journalists, the statement said. Fresh coronavirus cases and fatalities in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the tally of cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Media cannot be stopped from reporting court hearings, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the question of expunging the Madras High Court's critical remarks holding the Election Commission responsible for the surge in Covid cases does not arise as they are not part of the judicial order and also trashed the plea that media be restrained from reporting observations of court proceedings, saying it will be a retrograde act. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud acknowledged however that the high court's remarks were harsh and at times off-the-cuff remarks are susceptible to misinterpretation. The bench, also comprising justice M R Shah, said the media cannot be restrained from reporting observations made during the course of hearings. Lauding high courts for commendable work done by them in effectively supervising the Covid-19 pandemic management, the top court said: It will be retrograde to restrain HCs from making observations or gagging media from reporting observations. Courts have to remain alive to evolving technology of the media and it is not good if it is restrained from reporting judicial proceedings, the bench said. The apex court further stated that Article 19 of the Constitution not only gives the right to freedom of speech and expression to people but also confer the same right to the media. The verdict came on an appeal by the poll panel against the Madras High Court's observation. The high court had on April 26 castigated the EC for the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. While reserving the verdict on May 3, the bench had batted for "free flow of dialogue" in courts and said that it would neither restrain the media from reporting oral observations made during proceedings in public interest nor demoralise high courts - "vital pillars of democracy" - by asking them to refrain from raising questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||MHA forms four-member team to probe post-poll violence in Bengal||The Union Home Ministry has formed a four-member fact finding team to look into reasons for the post- poll violence in West Bengal and also assess the ground situation in the state, officials said on Thursday. The team, led by an additional secretary of the ministry, has left for the state. On Wednesday, the ministry had sent a terse reminder to the Bengal government to submit a detailed report on the post-poll violence and to take necessary measures to stop such incidents "without any loss of time". The ministry had warned that the matter will be taken "seriously" in case the state fails to do so. At least six people were killed in post-poll violence in different parts of the state till Tuesday. The BJP has alleged that TMC-backed goons have killed a number of its workers, attacked its women members, vandalised houses, looted shops of its members and ransacked its offices. Claiming that at least 14 BJP workers were killed and nearly one lakh people fled their homes in post-poll violence in West Bengal, party president J P Nadda alleged on Wednesday that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's silence speaks of her involvement. Banerjee rejected the charges, saying violence and clashes were taking place in those areas where the BJP candidates emerged victorious in the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||RLD chief Ajit Singh dies of Covid-19||Former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Ajit Singh passed away at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning battling COVID-19, his family said. He was 82. Singh, the son of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 on April 20, the family said in a statement. "Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji was diagnosed as COVID+ on the 20th April. He battled his condition till the very end and breathed his last today morning, the 6th of May, 2021," his son Jayant Chowdhury tweeted. "Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for your welfare," he said. "As our Nation confronts the horrific pandemic, it is our humble request to all those who wish to pay their respects, to please stay at home as far as possible. We must observe all safety protocols to keep ourselves and everyone around us healthy and safe. This would be the best way to honour Chaudhary Sahib as well as all those COVID warriors who are working night and day to protect us," he said. "We pray for solace for all those families that have been ravaged by this brutal disease," the message posted by Jayant on behalf of the family said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP President JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav and others have condoled the death of the leader.  Expressing grief at the death of Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday he was always dedicated to the welfare of farmers. Modi said he deftly handled many responsibilities at the Centre. The prime minister extended his condolences to Singh's family and admirers. Condoling Singh's demise, BJP president J P Nadda said he always served people during his long career in politics. Singh, son of former prime minister Charan Singh, was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 on April 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||India records highest daily surge in Covid cases, over 4.1 lakh infected in 24 hours||New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 35,66,398 comprising 16.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.99 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,72,80,844, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,67,75,209 samples have been tested up to May 5 with 19,23,131 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,980 new fatalities include 920 from Maharashtra, 353 from Uttar Pradesh, 346 from Karnataka, 311 from Delhi, 253 from Chhattisgarh, 181 from Haryana, 180 from Punjab, 167 from Tamil Nadu, 155 from Rajasthan, 141 from Jharkhand, 133 from Gujarat, 127 from Uttarakhand and 103 from West Bengal. A total of 2,30,168 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 72,662 from Maharashtra, 18,063 from Delhi, 16,884 from Karnataka, 14,779 from Tamil Nadu, 14,151 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,847 from West Bengal, 9,825 from Punjab and 9,738 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre acknowledges double mutant strain driving surge||India’s health ministry on Wednesday acknowledged that a coronavirus with a so-called double mutation is driving the country’s current Covid-19 surge, more than six weeks after government researchers had alerted the ministry about its potential risks. The variant called B1.617, first detected in Maharashtra earlier this year, has also turned up in 16 other states, including Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said, presenting data up to May 4. “The current surge in cases seen over the last one-and-a-half months in some states shows a correlation with the rise in the B1.617 lineage,” Sujeet Singh, the director of the NCDC, said at a briefing organised by the health ministry. Singh said states where B1.617 has been detected are “being advised” to strengthen their public health responses — increase testing, quickly isolate positive cases, prevent crowds and intermingling of people, promote use of masks and accelerate vaccinations. “We need to keep a watch on these variants — spot mutations that are important,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national task force on Covid-19 and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s think-tank. Paul and other health officials have asserted that the public’s response to the emergence of variants should not change in any way and people should continue to practise standard precautions such as wearing masks, avoiding crowds and getting themselves vaccinated as early as possible. Researchers who had detected the emergence and steady growth of B1.617 in Maharashtra — to make up about 20 per cent of samples in the state by mid-March — view the ministry’s acknowledgment of the variant’s role in the current surge as delayed by over six weeks. A 10-lab research consortium had in mid-March this year alerted the health ministry about the variant, as reported by The Telegraph on March 17. The scientists were concerned as the variant possessed a mutation designated as E484Q that allowed the virus to evade certain immune responses, and another mutation, L452R, that studies in the US had shown increased the infectivity of the virus. Scientists with the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium had then said that they were worried about the variant’s growth but believed that for, reasons unexplained, the health ministry had underplayed the role of variants. “They’re acknowledging a role in the surge only now — B1.617 now accounts for over 50 per cent of samples from parts of Maharashtra,” said a researcher and member of the consortium. The sharp surge of India’s Covid-19 epidemic since March has puzzled many experts, some of whom had speculated that only a more infectious variant could explain the speed of growth. A study in Mumbai has even suggested through theoretical calculations that the sharp rise in the number of cases in the city earlier this year could be explained by a variant 2 to 2.5 times more infectious than earlier variants. But medical researchers say ground studies that correlate variants with epidemiological information such as the number of people infected per household or within clusters of infections would be required to validate such theoretical calculations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Covid deaths in ‘abandoned’ Gurgaon clinic ||The harrowing Covid-related narratives in the country have plumbed new depths with an allegation that the staff of a Gurgaon hospital abandoned their posts after oxygen ran out and left several patients to die on the intervening night of April 30 and May 1. “Around 10pm on April 30, the lights were switched off for about 45 minutes. When the lights came on, there was no sign of any staff. Some people barged into the ICU and found their relatives dead,” said Mrityunjay Pathak, whose brother Naveen was a patient at Kriti Hospital in Sector 56. The 38-year-old Naveen, an employee of Union Bank of India, was being treated for complications related to the coronavirus. He is no more. On the evening of April 30, Mrityunjay said he ran from pillar to post in Gurgaon — a city he is unfamiliar with — to get oxygen for his brother. “Oxygen began to get over around 4pm and the hospital staff kept saying it would come in half an hour. Between 6 and 7pm, the oxygen finally got over and patients began to sink. I rushed out in search of an oxygen cylinder. I was cheated as the two cylinders I bought had hardly any oxygen in them,” Mrityunjay, who hails from Jharkhand’s Medininagar, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Videos of people barging into Kriti Hospital’s ICU — devoid of any medical staff — and finding their relatives dead are now viral online. Naveen was in the general ward with around 20 other patients, said his brother, who added that most of them passed away during the night. A police officer put the toll lower at six and said there was no shortage of oxygen. The district administration is yet to complete its inquiry into the deaths. “After 8pm, relatives of those who died started making a ruckus. The hospital had misled us about the oxygen supply and had they told us earlier, maybe we could have managed oxygen from somewhere. Around 10pm, the lights were switched off for about 45 minutes. The media and the police had started arriving. When the lights came on, there was no sign of any staff. Some people barged into the ICU and found their relatives dead,” Mrityunjay said. He added that oxygen was restored at 2am. “My brother had a heart attack at 4am and was put on ventilator. He died soon after. Someone circulated a letter to various authorities from the kin of the deceased. I signed it too. There were around 15 other signatories. I have been too distraught to follow up,” he told this newspaper. There are 40 beds in the general ward where Naveen was, and eight in the ICU. A police officer said: “We received a call informing us about a clash at the hospital. When we arrived there at night, we found angry relatives of patients. The doctors were there but were hiding. We do not have any information of an oxygen shortage. Of the six who died, five were Covid patients. No complaint against the hospital has been received.” Gurgaon’s deputy commissioner did not respond to calls and messages from this newspaper. His office tweeted on Wednesday: “With reference to the videos of Kriti Hospital being shared on social media, we would like to clarify, as confirmed by Dr Swati Rathore from the management team of the hospital, that there has been no casualty at the facility last night. The videos being shared are from last week and deputy commissioner Gurugram has ordered a probe which is underway.” Rathore, incidentally a district vice-president of the BJP Mahila Morcha, did not respond to calls from this newspaper. The hospital has BJP flags affixed on its perimeter. Rathore told reporters earlier that several government officials had been informed of the oxygen shortage and doctors hid as the hospital had already witnessed violence by relatives of patients last month. Kaustav Ritwik, who lost his 75-year-old grandmother Geeta Sinha, tweeted on the night of April 30: “No doctor, nobody at the reception, no doctor. Saw lady doctor leaving in her car. Is this why #BJP was elected?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Covid lockdown: No liquor home delivery in Odisha ||The Odisha government has decided not to allow home delivery of liquor during the 14-day lockdown that began on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning the government had indicated that it was mulling the idea of starting home delivery of liquor to prevent black marketing and sale of spurious liquor in the state. Principal secretary, excise, S.K. Lohani had earlier told The Telegraph: “New retailers have come up. We are examining the demand. Everything will be clarified within two days. Just wait.” However, Lohani confirmed late on Wednesday evening through a text message that “Home Delivery (of liquor) is not permitted.” Sources said the excise department took the decision following objections in some quarters in the government including from the special relief commissioner’s office. Sources said the state government felt that it would face stiff criticism from civil society members if it allowed home delivery of liquor. However, all emergency services are allowed during the lockdown period. The state has allowed opening of all essential shops, including those selling vegetables, fish and milk. People are allowed to walk to the nearby markets to purchase essential items. Food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranedra Pratap Swain warned against hoarding and black marketing of essential commodities during the lockdown period. “Direction has been issued to all the officials to visit the markets and ensure that there is no black marketing. We will take stern action against hoarders and blackmarketers,” Swain told reporters. In order to check the spread of Covid-19, the state government has decided to serve food packets at the Aaahar centres (where affordable meals are provided) to people at subsidised rates in capital Bhubaneswar instead of allowing them to eat rice, dal and curry at the centres. Odisha reported 9,889 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday pushing the infection tally to 489,641. Khurda district reported the highest number of cases on Wednesday with 1,331 people infected with Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Separatist Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai dies, finger at jail neglect ||Jailed separatist Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who was the front-runner to succeed ailing hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani as the leader of the hardliners, died in a Jammu hospital on Wednesday, triggering allegations in Kashmir that the 77-year-old had been left unattended in prison till his condition deteriorated. Sehrai has spent years in jail and was arrested the last time in May 2020 after his militant son Junaid died in a gunfight in Srinagar. The government had apprehended that Sehrai might don the mantle of the azaadi movement in the absence of Geelani who has retreated from public life because of his failing health. Hospital sources said Sehrai had developed pneumonia at Udhampur jail. He was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital in Jammu on Tuesday. The RT-PCR test result to confirm Covid is awaited. A spokesman for the moderate faction of the Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, quoting family sources, said Sehrai had been suffering from multiple ailments. He alleged that the authorities did not attend to Sehrai in jail until his condition worsened on Tuesday. “The APHC (All-Party Hurriyat Conference) deeply regrets this inhumane attitude of the authorities and is pained by it,” the statement said. Sehrai had emerged as an ideal candidate to lead the hardline separatist camp after his son Junaid, an MBA graduate, died in a gunfight on May 19 last year. Geelani is incapacitated, in house arrest, and has rarely issued a statement in the past two years, while other senior leaders are in jail. Senior separatists, including Geelani, have been accused by critics of preaching violence to the ordinary Kashmiri but suggesting peace to their own families so that none of their kin picks up arms. Sehrai is a hardliner like Geelani and had been his close aide for decades. But he appeared angry with Geelani for choosing silence in the aftermath of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. There have been rumours that Geelani had not protested for fear of his immediate family being hounded by government agencies. The NIA had in the run-up to the cancellation of the special status questioned Geelani’s two sons in a terror-funding case. “You should know there was no consultation with us (over the silence),” Sehrai, who headed the Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, a constituent of the hardline Hurriyat faction, told this correspondent during an interaction with a group of journalists at his residence in November 2019. Sehrai had said the initiative to protest against the move should have come from Geelani or the Mirwaiz, adding that they had “been issuing protest calendars all these years”. Sehrai had said he too was waiting for Geelani and the Mirwaiz to launch a movement and had reached out to the duo’s aides but there was “no response”. Sehrai’s family had repeatedly requested the Jammu and Kashmir administration to release him “because of his failing health in jail”. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said he had paid a price for his ideology. “Deeply saddened to know about Ashraf Sehrai sahab’s sudden demise. Like him, countless political prisoners & other detainees from J&K continue to be jailed purely for their ideologies & thought process. In today’s India one pays a price with his life for dissent,” the PDP leader tweeted. People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone, who is believed to be in the good books of the central government after he parted ways with an alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, regretted Sehrai’s death in incarceration. “Why did he have to die in incarceration and not at his home amongst his kin and loved ones? Have we become so weak that an old, infirm, dying person is a threat to the state? I am not being critical. But please introspect. Sehrai Sahib was a political leader, not a terrorist,” Lone tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Covid: First wave pushed earnings of 23 crore Indians below national minimum daily wage||The first wave of Covid last year pushed the earnings of the families of 23 crore Indians below the national minimum daily wage of Rs 375 suggested by a government-appointed committee, a report released on Wednesday said. The “State of Working India 2021: One year of Covid-19”, released by the Azim Premji University, says the number of people living in households with daily incomes below Rs 375 was 22.62 crore and 7.24 crore in rural and urban areas, respectively, at the start of the outbreak in March 2020. At the end of October last year, eight months into the pandemic, these numbers had increased to 36.52 crore (a rise of 61 per cent) in rural areas and 16.38 crore (a rise of 126 per cent) in urban areas, respectively. Collectively, the number rose from 29.86 crore to 52.9 crore, a rise of 77 per cent. Before the pandemic, the proportions of such people were 25.4 per cent and 15.6 per cent of the population in the rural and urban areas, respectively. By October 2020, the proportions had risen to 41 per cent (rural) and 35.3 per cent (urban), the report says. “Had the pandemic not occurred, poverty would have declined by 5 percentage points in rural areas and 1.5 percentage points in urban areas between 2019 and 2020, and 50 million would have been lifted above this line,” the report says. Between late 2019 and late 2020, nearly half of formal salaried workers moved into informal work, such as self-employment (30 per cent), casual wage labour (10 per cent) and informal salaried work (9 per cent) — a fallout mainly of the lockdown. “Many households who had not thought themselves to be poor actually became poor,” said Amit Basole, a professor and one of the authors of the report. Currently, the various states have their own minimum wages, mostly between Rs 150 and Rs 300, while a non-binding national floor-level wage remains stuck at Rs 176. The government has enacted a wage code for a national minimum wage but the amount has not been fixed yet. “We took the Anoop Satpathy committee’s recommendation for this calculation,” Basole said. In 2019, an expert committee led by Satpathy and appointed by the law ministry to determine a methodology for fixing a national minimum wage had proposed the figure of Rs 375. This was based on estimated expenditures on a minimum recommended food intake and on other heads like clothing, fuel and light, house rent, education, medical treatment, footwear and transport for the wage earners and their dependants. The “One year of Covid-19” study analysed data obtained already through the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (by the private think tank, the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy), the Azim Premji University Covid-19 Livelihoods Phone Survey, and the India Working Survey. The report says the Indian economy was already in prolonged slowdown when Covid struck. It says about 10 crore jobs were lost during the nationwide lockdown from March 25 last year, but most of the newly jobless were back at work by June. By the end of 2020, about 1.5 crore workers remained out of work while the income of others remained depressed, it says. For an average household of four members, the monthly per capita income in October last year was Rs 14,979, below the January figure of Rs 15,989. As a result of the job and income losses, the labour share of GDP fell by over 5 percentage points between the second quarter of 2019-20 (32.5 per cent) and the second quarter of 2020-21 (27 per cent). The report recommends the extension of free rations under the public distribution system beyond the currently stipulated June till the end of 2021, and monthly cash transfers of Rs 5,000 for three months to vulnerable households. It suggests that the work entitlement under the rural job guarantee scheme MGNREGA be expanded from 100 to 150 days per household per year. It has also recommended a pilot urban employment programme in the worst-hit districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid lockdown: Migrant worker from Odisha takes gold loan of Rs 30,000 to buy food||Migrant worker Sushil Raut has had no work since the Delhi government imposed a lockdown on April 17. The plumber from Kendrapada, Odisha, who lives in a rented room in a south Delhi slum with his family has not received any assistance from anywhere, either. Raut took a loan of Rs 30,000 from Muthoot Finance against his wife’s gold ornaments on Monday to feed his family of four, which includes two young children. “There’s no point going back home. Travelling involves (Covid) risk. The Odisha government has imposed a lockdown too, so there won’t be any work there, either. I took the loan because I have no income,” Raut told The Telegraph. The Delhi government has opened a few public kitchens that serve free meals but Raut says the nearest one is at least 2km from his home and the queues are too long. While the Centre claims its programme to provide subsidised rations to migrants at their workplaces has been implemented in most states, Delhi has not joined the scheme. Four in five migrant workers across India have had no work for the past two weeks, a civil society group has found after compiling data through phone conversations. The Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan), set up last year to help migrant workers and study their condition, was contacted by 51 migrants from various cities in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The organisation contacted another 92 workers, three-fourths of whom were staying back at their workplaces while the rest, traumatised by the events of last year, had returned home. Some 81 per cent of the workers said they had no work because of locally declared lockdowns, Swan said. Just 18 per cent said they had received some money from their employer after work stopped. Swan said only 68 per cent of the workers reported having received their full or partial wages for the stretch of April before the lockdowns, with 32 per not having been paid in April at all. Swan researcher Anindita Adhikari said the data collection did not qualify as a survey since the techniques of sample selection were not used. The organisation had spoken to whoever approached it, and those whose contact details it had from last year. According to Swan, migrant workers who have stayed back in the cities are short of money even to buy food or pay rent. Few of them have experienced any serious Covid symptoms, though. Raut said the Delhi government should provide dry rations to all the migrants by reaching out to them across the state. “It’s not difficult to identify the migrant workers. Government officials can ask the landlords to provide data about their tenants,” he said. Adhikari said the government must ensure free rations to migrant workers and direct every employer to pay full wages through the lockdown to its workers. She said the government should also ensure that landlords don’t evict tenants who cannot pay rent, and prioritises the vaccination of the migrant workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court protects Centre from Delhi HC contempt notice over oxygen shortage||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the contempt notice issued by Delhi High Court against the Centre for failing to provide adequate life-saving oxygen to Covid-ravaged Delhi, observing that “putting officers in jail or hauling them up for contempt will not get oxygen”. “Let us find solutions. Let us ensure lives are saved,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said. The top court asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, to inform it by 10.30am on Thursday about the steps taken to augment the supply of oxygen to the national capital. The Supreme Court and Delhi High Court had earlier directed the Centre to supply 700 metric tonnes of oxygen daily to Delhi. The apex court said that while it was staying the contempt notice, Delhi High Court was free to hear the other issues related to the oxygen crisis. The Supreme Court asked the Centre to place before it by Thursday a comprehensive plan on augmenting oxygen supply in a tabulated chart. “In view of the above directions, we stay the operation of the contempt notice issued by DHC on May 4, 2021, until further orders. However, we clarify that the stay would not operate as a restrain on DHC to continue the proceedings on other aspects,” Justice Chandrachud said. The Centre had earlier defended itself by saying that it had been able to supply over 590 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily to Delhi since there was an acute shortage all over the country. The special bench of Justices Chandrachud and Mehta was constituted on Wednesday after the solicitor-general requested Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana for an urgent hearing to stay the Delhi High Court contempt notice issued to the Centre. The high court bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Mukta Gupta had on Tuesday issued the contempt notice while asking the officials responsible for non-compliance of the order to provide 700 metric tonnes of oxygen daily to Delhi to be personally present in court. The high court had expressed anger at the fact that despite a Supreme Court order on April 30 and the Centre’s subsequent assurance in the high court on providing 700 metric tonnes of daily oxygen, the directive had not been complied with. The bench of Justices Chandrachud and Shah on Wednesday told Piyush Goyal, an official from the Union home ministry, that the Centre should try to replicate in Delhi the “model” adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for augmenting oxygen supply. Mehta replied that the Centre was in touch with the BMC and had requested the civic body to send it details of the “model”. Although Mumbai is among the places worst affected by the pandemic, there have not been reports of any major oxygen crisis. Goyal said the Centre was taking extraordinary measures at the highest level to augment the supplies of oxygen in Delhi. “Production is not a problem. Shortage of containers is the problem,” Goyal said. According to solicitor-general Mehta, the Centre has a stock of 7,000 metric tonnes of oxygen for medical use, but the question is how to distribute it among the states. “It cannot be at the sweet will of officers. What we did was (we) chalked out a mechanism,” he told the bench. Mehta told the court that oxygen was being distributed among the states based on the advice of an expert group set up to calculate the pan-India requirement on a rational basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Supreme Court junks law granting quota to the Marathas in admissions, government jobs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down a Maharashtra law granting quota to the progressive Maratha community in admissions and government jobs, saying there were no exceptional circumstances to warrant a breach of the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict. The five-judge constitution bench was unanimous in calling the quota “unconstitutional”. The quota, instituted in 2018, provided for 12 per cent reservation for Marathas in education and 13 per cent in government jobs. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, L. Nageswara Rao, Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S. Ravindra Bhat held that the Maharashtra government had not furnished any quantifiable data to support the reservation benefits for the Marathas. However, three of the judges — Justices Rao, Gupta and Bhat — by a 3:2 majority further ruled that under the 102nd constitutional amendment by which Article 342A was engrafted, only the National Commission for Backward Classes can have the final say on the preparation of the list of backward classes. The five-judge bench was dealing with a batch of appeals filed by several individuals and organisations challenging a Bombay High Court decision upholding the Maratha quota. “What was said by (the nine-judge) constitution bench in Indra Sawhney (1992 Mandal case) clearly binds us. The judgment of Indra Sawhney has stood the test of time and has never been doubted. On the clear principle of stare decisis (a legal doctrine that obligates courts to follow historical cases when making a ruling on a similar case), the judgment of Indra Sawhney neither need to be revisited nor referred to a larger bench of this court,” the Supreme Court said. “…The fact that the population of backward class is 85 per cent and reservation limit is only 50 per cent. The above… circumstances… is not an extraordinary situation as referred to in paragraph 810 of the Indra Sawhney judgment. The Marathas are a dominant forward class and are in the mainstream of national life. The above situation is not an extraordinary situation contemplated by the Indra Sawhney judgment and both the commission and the high court fell in error in accepting the above circumstances as an extraordinary circumstance for exceeding the 50 per cent limit. “We, thus, hold that there is no case of extraordinary situation for exceeding the ceiling… of 50 per cent for grant of reservation to Marathas over and above the 50 per cent ceiling of reservation,” the apex court said. The court made it clear that students admitted to postgraduate medical courses prior to September 9, 2020, under the quota would not be affected by the judgment. The same will be the case with students in engineering and other medical courses. Appointments to public services under the Maratha quota after the judgment of the high court dated June 27, 2019, till the earlier stay order passed by the Supreme Court on the quota policy on September 9, 2020, will also not be affected. Terming the Supreme Court’s decision unfortunate, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged the Centre to step in and help the Marathas retain the quota by showing the same urgency as it did in the case of Article 370 and some other key matters. “With folded hands, we request the Prime Minister and the President to take an immediate decision on the Maratha quota,” Uddhav said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave: A doctor’s 27-hour workday ||Rohan Aggarwal is 26 years old. He doesn’t even complete his medical training until next year. And yet, at one of the best hospitals in India, he is the doctor who must decide who will live and who will die when patients come to him gasping for breath, their family members begging for mercy. As India’s healthcare system teeters on the verge of collapse during a brutal second wave of the novel coronavirus, Aggarwal makes those decisions during a 27-hour workday that includes a grim overnight shift in charge of the emergency room at his New Delhi hospital. Everyone at Holy Family Hospital — patients, relatives and staff — knows there aren’t enough beds, not enough oxygen or ventilators to keep everyone who arrives at the hospital’s front gates alive. “Who to be saved, who not to be saved should be decided by God,” Aggarwal says. “We are not made for that — we are just humans. But at this point in time, we are being made to do this.” During his marathon shift, Aggarwal says he fears what will happen if he gets infected too, knowing that his own hospital will be unlikely to find him a bed. He is unvaccinated: He was sick in January when shots for medical professionals were being rolled out. When Aggarwal begins his shift around 9am, four bodies lie in one of the areas where staff are supposed to remove their protective equipment. In the emergency room, conditions are even more cramped. Patients and relatives crowd every available space, many wearing no protection except for a simple cloth mask. Doctors and nurses have stopped wearing full protective equipment too — it is simply too difficult to work in. Trolleys are close enough for patients to touch each other. One man even lies in a storage area surrounded by bins of medical waste, a relative dragging in a new oxygen cylinder as one runs out. In normal circumstances, Holy Family is one of the best hospitals in the country, attracting patients from across the world — and it still is. But the facility is in a desperate position. The hospital, which has capacity for 275 adults, is currently caring for 385. Heading the ER (emergency room), with its broken bones and coughs and colds, is usually a relatively simple task, left to a more junior doctor. But the on-duty doctor in the ER is now one of the most critical in the hospital. Before he begins his turn in the ER, Aggarwal first makes his rounds of the general Covid wards. Along with a senior colleague, he is responsible for 65 patients. He is minutes into his rounds when he receives an urgent call — one of his patients is sick. He sprints down to Room 323, where an elderly man is barely conscious. “He is on the way down,” Aggarwal explains to the man’s son. The son sits with his head in his hands while space is made in the ICU. The patient is one of the lucky ones: He’s been admitted to a Covid ward, and thus has access to intensive care. Like many others in Delhi, Holy Family has taken to Twitter to beg for help securing oxygen. Its medical staff look at everyone, give first aid as best they can, but there just isn’t space for everyone. Slumped in the back of a car, 62-year-old Vijay Gupta is one patient turned away, his family and friends debating what to do next. “We have been roaming around since 6am looking for a bed,” says Gupta’s friend Rajkumar Khandelwal. “Where shall we go?” Khandelwal asks the son helplessly. By the time his morning rounds end after about three hours, Aggarwal’s eyes are already burning from tiredness. Sumit Ray, the hospital’s medical superintendent and head of the ICU, says the hospital staff are doing everything they can. “The doctors and nurses are demoralised,” he says. “They know they can do better, but they just don’t have the time.” No matter where Aggarwal is, he hears the sound of heart-rate monitors as he tries to sleep, making it impossible to forget about the deaths under his care not from lack of trying, but lack of resources. Aggarwal normally takes lunch in the hospital, but on this day, the sound — “the ICU noise,” as he calls it — is too much for him to bear. He finds respite in a nearby 24-hour convenience store. “It’s really a depressing atmosphere,” he says of the hospital as he eats from a takeaway carton of biryani. “I just want to have a break of an hour or so outside the hospital so that I can just recollect myself. Because I have to be there for another 24 hours.” He lives with his parents, and worries constantly about their safety. Aggarwal used to barricade himself in his first-floor apartment, but his mother has other ideas. “My mom wants to have food with me; she can’t be away from me,” he says. A little before 3pm, Aggarwal returns for his shift in the emergency room. He sits behind a desk as relatives crowd around, pleading for admission. He makes the decision-making process sound simple. “If a patient has a fever, and I know he’s sick but he’s not requiring oxygen, I can’t admit him,” he says. “People are dying on the streets without oxygen. So people who don’t require oxygen, even if they are sick, we don’t admit them usually.” That’s one choice. “Another choice is I have an old male and I have a young guy. Both are requiring high-flow oxygen; I have only one bed in the ICU. And I can’t be emotional at that time, that he is a father to someone. The young have to be saved.” He begins touring the ER, his manner brisk. He barely looks at patients who are sitting up and conscious. “Will he recover?” one relative asks as Aggarwal looks at the patient’s X-ray. “I will try my best, but I can’t promise anything,” he replies. One woman, Pratibha Rohilla, is moaning and clutching at her oxygen mask. Her son, Aditya, looks angrily as another patient is moved onto a ward. He tries to argue with a nurse. “I understand, but not a single bed is there,” she replies. “There are no beds,” the son says of hospitals in the capital. “We have tried 15-20 hospitals.” One woman, 74-year-old Karuna Vadhera, is in critical condition. “She might die at any time,” he tells her nephew Pulkit, imploring him to move her to a hospital with an ICU bed free. “We have five family members in different parts of Delhi, trying,” Pulkit replies. Aggarwal spends the night fighting constant emergencies. Three of his patients die. It isn’t until 5am that he manages some sleep in the break room of the ER. By the time he emerges, bleary-eyed, a few hours later, Karuna, the woman who didn’t get a bed in the ICU, has died. Pratibha, the woman whose son had tried 15 to 20 hospitals before Holy Family, will take her place in the emergency room, though she should be in the ICU, too. Finally, after 27 hours, his shift is over. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Bishop with longest term no more||Philipose Mar Chrysostom, former head of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church and the longest-serving bishop in India, died of age-related ailments on Wednesday, a church spokesperson said. He was 104. Mar Chrysostom had been discharged from a medical college hospital in Thiruvalla on Tuesday. He breathed his last at a private hospital in Kumbanad near Thiruvalla at 1.15am, the spokesperson said. Mar Chrysostom had celebrated his 104th birthday a week ago on April 27 while undergoing treatment at Medical College Hospital. His funeral will be held on Thursday. A religious dignitary with a genuine humanitarian outlook and global vision, Mar Chrysostom was awarded the Padma Bhushan by President Ram Nath Kovind in 2018. Mar Chrysostom is credited with implementing and formulating many projects to improve the social, economic and cultural condition of the poor and deprived. Born on April 27, 1918, in Karthikappally, he had inherited the missionary zeal from his father. After obtaining graduation from Union Christian College, Alwaye, he was attracted to missionary work and ordained as Deacon of the Church in 1944. Nine years later, in 1953, he was consecrated as Bishop. Mar Chrysostom became the Metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church in 1999. He was a bishop for 68 years. Popular for his pleasant demeanour, the bishop was known for his touching yet humorous speeches. Many books and documentaries have been published on his speeches. Church officials said Mar Chrysostom’s mortal remains would be interred in the specially constructed tomb near the St Thomas Mar Thoma Church, Thiruvalla, located on the SCS Campus at 3pm on Thursday. The mortal remains are currently kept at an auditorium on the SCS Campus for viewing. Because of Covid-related restrictions, the Church has requested the followers to watch the live streaming of the funeral service. Condolence messages poured in. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Saddened by the demise of His Grace The Most Rev. Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan. He will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and many efforts to remove human suffering. Condolences to the members of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen supply half of demand in Karnataka||The oxygen crisis in Karnataka is deepening with supply only half of the daily demand due to the sharp spike in Covid cases. The state has been reporting over 40,000 daily cases, the worst outbreak after Maharashtra. While the demand is 1,792 metric tonnes, the daily availability is 865 metric tonnes. This has left the BJP-run Karnataka government clueless, especially after 24 Covid patients died in Chamrajnagar allegedly because of lack of oxygen. A health ministry official confirmed the dire situation in light of the spiralling Covid numbers in the state that recorded 44,631 new cases on Tuesday, of which more than 20,000 were in Bangalore. “The situation is quite serious and we need adequate supplies of medical-grade oxygen immediately,” said the official, who refused to be identified as he is not authorised to speak on the matter. Karnataka has seven liquid oxygen manufacturing plants that churn out 812 metric tonnes every day. Four of them are based in Bellary, one in Koppal — both in the north of the state — and two in Bangalore. Based on the rising demand, the state’s daily allocation was increased from 300 metric tonnes to 865 metric tonnes. But another major issue the state is faced with is the absence of refuelling units for oxygen cylinders in nine districts, Chamrajnagar being one of them. This was cited as the main reason why the Chamrajnagar government hospital had to wait for filled-up cylinders to be brought from Mysore, 60km away, in the early hours of Monday as patients started dying. While there was suspicion that five Covid deaths at a private hospital in Hubli, 400km from Bangalore, on Tuesday was due to lack of oxygen, the district authorities immediately rebutted the allegations, claiming that the facility had sufficient stocks. “There is speculation that every death in every district is due to lack of oxygen since the Chamrajnagar incident. This will only create more confusion and fear in the minds of the people unless we manage to get sufficient supplies,” the official said. A retired civil servant who was until recently one of the top bureaucrats in the state administration pointed to lack of preparedness for the crisis. “I can clearly see the government was not ready to handle this and did not prepare in advance. They perhaps assumed that the daily infection rate would be around 10,000 to 15,000 as during last year’s peak, which Karnataka could have managed better,” he told The Telegraph on Wednesday, requesting anonymity. A doctor attached to a Covid ICU at a government hospital in Bangalore said the situation was “precarious although we have oxygen for today and tomorrow”. “We have a large oxygen plant (a storage tank) that gets refilled once every two days. But the tension among doctors is palpable since we don’t want even a single patient to suffer due to lack of oxygen,” said the young doctor who declined to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Varanasi loses artistes to Covid||At least half-a-dozen artistes have died of Covid in the past one month in Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency and a centre of classical music, with the family of at least one alleging inadequate treatment in hospital. Sitar player Krishna Chakraborty, a Banaras Hindu University (BHU) professor and former disciple of Pandit Ravi Shankar, died at a local hospital on April 21. Theatre actor Pushpa Mishra died at the BHU hospital two days before Chakraborty. Violinist Swarna Khuntia, an assistant professor at BHU, died on April 15, while Dhrupad Singer Pallab Das and harmonium player Vijay Sharma died on April 12. All the five were in their 50s. Pandit Rajan Mishra, a khayal singer from the Banaras gharana or tradition, died at a Delhi hospital on April 25. He was 70. Mishra’s family and friends tried in vain to secure a ventilator for him, even putting out appeals on Twitter. His son Rajnish told PTI that the Prime Minister’s Office reached out to them but by then Mishra had passed away. Modi posted a condolence message on Twitter that had no mention of the family’s struggle to get a ventilator for the vocalist. A classical singer of the Kirana tradition, Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, 84, has been in home isolation for the past week with Covid. His wife Manorama Devi died of the infection on April 26 and his elder daughter Sangita Mishra, 45, also a classical singer, on May 1. His younger daughter Namrata Mishra, who too is a classical singer, has demanded that Modi order a high-level probe into her sister’s death, alleging a hospital source had told her that Sangita had been left unattended at the Medwin Hospital. Authorities at the Medwin Hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital, have refused comment. “I want Modiji to ask the hospital what happened to my sister... what treatment she was given,” Namrata told reporters in Varanasi on Wednesday. She has lodged a complaint with Maidagin police station in the city demanding CCTV footage of the treatment and all the test reports. Dr V.B. Singh, chief medical officer of Varanasi district, said: “A three-member medical board will probe the complaint and recommend action.” Namrata said: “My mother, Manorama Devi, 76, was admitted to Oriona Hospital, where she died (of Covid) on April 26. The same day, my elder sister Sangita was admitted to Medwin Hospital. The hospital staff told us we could see her every day through CCTV between 2pm and 4pm. “The next day, they said the CCTV was under repair. When the PM called us and expressed his condolences over my mother’s death, we told him about my sister. Then the local administration woke up and I could see my sister at 9pm on April 29 through a video call. She was sitting on the bed. “The doctors said she would be discharged soon. But we received a call the same night that said her condition had deteriorated. We were informed on May 1 that she was dead and that we needed to pay about Rs 4 lakh before they would hand over the body. “Although they handed us the body (without the payment) under pressure, they have failed to provide us anything from which would know what treatment she had received.” She said the hospital had initially taken Rs 1.5 lakh from her and charged Rs 1,700 for a PPE kit after her sister died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid: BJP MP has time to play communal tricks||Three BJP lawmakers led by party hawk Tejasvi Surya have found a new way of using the Covid crisis to promote communal hatred, insinuating that Muslims recruited by the civic authorities were accepting bribes to allocate beds in designated Bangalore hospitals. Surya, Bangalore South MP and BJP Yuva Morcha national president, led a campaign on Tuesday to “expose” the alleged scam by some helpline assistants in the corporation’s war room who had been hired temporarily to allocate Covid beds. But of the 205 such personnel, he named only 16, all of whom appeared to be Muslims. In a video clip that emerged on Wednesday, Surya and MLAs Ravi Subramanya (Surya’s uncle) and Satish Reddy can be seen purportedly questioning officials in a Covid war room in the city. “Who are these people?” Surya appears to be shouting after reading out a few Muslim-sounding names. When an official says the personnel were hired by an agency, Surya purportedly yells: “Which agency? Call the agency people.” Subramanya then appears to shout: “Did you make the appointments for a madrasa or a corporation?” Surya had on Tuesday told a news conference that Covid beds were being sold against huge bribes in Bangalore —sometimes after having been allocated to a different patient — while the government’s web portal continued to show beds as unavailable throughout. He alleged that some of the corporation’s helpline assistants were in cahoots with touts outside. The 16 names Surya mentioned found their way to social media platforms, where those named came under attack as “terrorists” engaged in destroying the bed-allocation system. Bangalore police, who said they would probe Surya’s allegation, arrested two people on Tuesday on the charge of taking bribes of up to Rs 50,000 to arrange Covid beds with oxygen facilities, including ICU beds. However, none from the 16 Surya had named had been booked till Wednesday night. The two arrested suspects are a woman named Netra and a man named Rohit. It’s unclear whether they are accused of being touts or civic staff — their names don’t figure among the 205 helpline assistants in the corporation’s Covid war room. The Congress lambasted Surya and the two other lawmakers for singling out people from one community as perpetrators of the scam. “This is nothing but hate-mongering just because they are Muslims,” party spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa told a news conference on Wednesday. “First, Surya should ask his chief minister if he thinks there is a scam in bed allocation. The BJP rules the state and the corporation.” Kalappa accused Surya of trying to deflect public attention from the 24 deaths caused by oxygen shortage in Chamrajnagar, about 175km from here. BJP leaders had tried to demonise Muslims in connection with the pandemic earlier too, blaming Covid’s first wave in the country on a mid-March congregation in Delhi last year and accusing minority vendors of spitting on vegetables before selling them to spread the infection. Surya is known for badmouthing Muslims. During the agitation against the new citizenship matrix in December 2019, he had described the protesters as “puncture-wallahs” — an allusion to many poor Muslims’ occupation of fixing flat tyres. He had berated secularism as a “namby-pamby” ideology. “This is a new India we are creating. The namby-pamby secularism you people have built so far will not work any more,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Allahabad HC exposes UP govt's claims about reliability of Covid information system||Allahabad High Court has exposed the Uttar Pradesh administration’s claims about the reliability of its Covid information system by demonstrating a mismatch between the government helpline and portal on the availability of hospital beds. It has also described as “a criminal act and not less than a genocide” the state authorities’ failure to supply adequate oxygen to hospitals, shredding chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s steadfast denial of any oxygen crisis. During a virtual hearing on Tuesday, the bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar asked an advocate, Anuj Singh, to call up the Covid helpline number around noon. “Anuj Singh dialled the number again and again and the line was showing busy. However, ultimately he (was) able to connect and (the) reply was that there was no Level-2 (or) Level-3 bed available, whereas the online portal, during the course of hearing of the case, was showing that there were vacant positions of beds in both Level-2 and Level-3 category,” the high court observed, according to records of the proceedings. Level 2 beds are for moderately symptomatic Covid patients; Level 3 beds are for serious patients. Mismatches between government portals’ claims about bed availability and the situation on the ground are prevalent across the country — from Delhi to Chennai — given the high demand for beds and the logistics of updating the portals. The Uttar Pradesh government says it updates the portal twice a day — early in the morning and late in the afternoon. However, some states claim to update their portals after four, six or eight hours. “Similarly, Anuj Singh, learned advocate (mentioned an instance involving) King George’s Medical University Hospital (Lucknow) where portal showed 3 ICU beds to be vacant (on Sunday) and when (the) hospital was contacted (the same day), it informed that there were no vacant ICU beds,” the high court said. A senior official at King George’s said most of the hospital’s computer operators were Covid-infected and on leave, slowing the updating process. On the oxygen crisis, the high court said: “(The) death of Covid patients just for non-supplying of oxygen to the hospitals is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of the liquid medical oxygen.” Adityanath denies any oxygen shortage and has ordered a crackdown on black marketeers and hospitals that “spread rumours and panic”, the directive triggering arrests and threats to patients’ relatives, Covid volunteers and hospitals. The bench also sought a clarification on allegations that a sitting high court judge, Justice V.K. Srivastava, who had died last week in Lucknow, had not received proper treatment. It said Justice Srivastava was admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Lucknow, on the morning of April 23 and “it was only around 7.30pm when his condition deteriorated (that) he was placed on ventilator”. The “same night he was shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, where he was in ICU for five days” before dying, it said. The bench asked additional advocate-general Manish Goyal to file an affidavit on the treatment given to Justice Srivastava at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and explain why he had not been taken to the Sanjay Gandhi Institute straightaway. The high court was hearing a PIL registered on its own direction last year about the poor conditions at quarantine centres and inadequate Covid treatment in the state. Singh is one of the lawyers the high court has appointed to argue the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Oxygen cylinder blast kills three in Uttar Pradesh||Three people lost their lives and six others were injured when an oxygen cylinder exploded while it was being refilled here on Wednesday, police said. The incident occurred at KT oxygen plant, station house officer of Chinhat police station Dhananjay Pandey said. “Two injured are admitted at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital while four are undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of KGMU,” Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said. A team has been formed to probe the incident, he said. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||No supply schedule of Covid vaccine shared by Serum Institute of India: Punjab ||The Punjab government paid Rs 10.37 crore to the Serum Institute of India on April 26 for procurement of around 30 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine but has yet to receive a schedule of supply, health secretary Hussan Lal told the state cabinet. Chairing a virtual cabinet meeting here, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directed the health department to explore all options for the supply of the vaccine. The state government hospitals have not yet started the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group due to the unavailability of vaccines. Only some private hospitals, which had placed direct orders for the vaccine, have commenced the inoculation drive of those aged 18 and above, the participants of the meeting were informed, according to an official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
