07-05-2021||India||Better to be a cow than a human being in Covid-ravaged Uttar Pradesh||A storm of criticism has greeted a decision by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to set up 700 helpline centres to report cows in need of assistance when Covid-19 patients are begging for oxygen and hospital beds. Carrying forward the government’s emblematic cow protection agenda, "in view of the current Covid situation, a total of 700 help desks for the welfare of cows has been set up across the state’s districts,” an official press release said, according to the Press Trust of India. As doctors battled the devastating second pandemic wave pummelling the state, the decree by the Yogi Adityanath government was blasted on social media. One irate Twitter user said Friday: “In a place where humans are dying like flies, a help desk is established for 'holy cows.' Another Twitter user commented: "Yogi should concentrate on human beings who are gasping for oxygen and begging for a hospital bed. Their families are gathering firewood to cremate them. This man is amazing!” The state government has also ordered that staff in the cow shelters follow strict Covid-19 protocols, such as wearing masks, as part of measures to protect the cattle. The shelters are being equipped with medical equipment like thermal scanners to detect any early signs of the virus among staff. A study by German government scientists last year suggested cattle can catch Covid-19. Researchers at Germany’s Federal Research Institute for Animal Health inoculated six cattle with the coronavirus. Two cattle tested Covid-positive after nose swabs. At least a dozen animals are known to be susceptible to the virus, including dogs and cats. “Amidst the raging Pandemic when thousands of people are dying due to lack of Oxygen & medical care in UP, Yogi orders setting up a help desk for cows in every district! Gobar gyan!” tweeted human rights advocate Prashant Bhushan. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor reacted Thursday, saying: "these days, better to be a cow in UP than to be a human being. CM Yogi Adityanath is setting up help desks to protect cows while Covid rages.” Uttar Pradesh has been overwhelmed by Covid-19 cases with families struggling to find hospital beds, medical oxygen and drugs. Crematoriums have been running out of space to cremate the dead. As part of its cow protection campaign, the Uttar Pradesh government also announced it is rapidly scaling up the number of cow shelters to deal with stray cattle. Because of “cow vigilantism” against people engaged in the cattle trade, farmers are unable to sell their cows and bullocks and are being forced to set them loose because they can’t afford to feed them. The government’s news release said a total of 5,268 cow protection centres have already been established in the state and are “ensuring the well-being” of 573,417 stray cattle “thanks to the efforts of the chief minister.” Apart from these smaller cow centres, there are 117 bigger cow sanctuaries. “World-class Covid-19 management by BJP's Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh. He has ordered the setting up of war rooms, special cells, enough food stock and dedicated treatment hospitals in all district headquarters. For Cows,” said another Twitter user. The statement mentioned as well the existence of 3,452 “fodder banks” to feed stray cattle that have been set up since Yogi Adityanath took office back in 2017. The chief minister is famed for his policies to protect cows. Under a government scheme, the state government also gives Rs 900 per month to farmers who take care of stray cattle. The chief minister boasted last year that his government had been able to crack down on both cow slaughtering and cattle smuggling to other states and neighbouring countries. “It was a challenge before me to protect the holy animal which I did to my full ability,'' Adityanath was quoted as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Third wave of Covid can be avoided if right steps are taken, says Centre’s scientific advisor||Two days after waning Indians of a third wave of Covid-19, the Centre’s principal scientific advisor Dr. K Vijay Raghavan said that the country can fully dodge the wave if necessary measures are taken. "If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen in all the places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends much on how effectively the guidance is implemented at the local level, in the states, in districts and in the cities everywhere," Raghavan was quoted by ndtv.com as saying at a press briefing. This was a step-down from the expert’s comments on Wednesday, where he asked India to brace for an ‘inevitable’ third wave of Covid-19. "Phase three is inevitable given the higher levels of circulating virus, but it is not clear on what time-scale this phase three will occur. We should be prepared for new waves," he had said on the day. Other officials of the health ministry said 12 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases each at present, while the count is between 50,000 and one lakh in seven, as the country battles a second wave of the viral disease. The positivity rate is currently above 15 per cent in 24 states in the country and in the range of 5-15 per cent in nine, the ministry said. It said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh are among states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. However, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Odisha are among those showing an upward trend in daily new cases of the infection, the ministry added. The Health Ministry also asked the states to prioritise beneficiaries awaiting their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, and ensure timely completion of the recommended vaccination schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||WhatsApp scraps May 15 deadline for accepting privacy policy terms||WhatsApp has scrapped its May 15 deadline for users to accept its controversial privacy policy update and said not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts. WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook. A WhatsApp spokesperson told PTI that no accounts will be deleted on May 15 for not accepting the policy update. "No accounts will be deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India will lose functionality of WhatsApp either. We will follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks," the spokesperson said in an emailed response to a query on Friday. The spokesperson added that while a "majority of users who have received the new terms of service have accepted them", some people have not had the chance to do so yet. However, the company did not clarify the reason behind the decision and did not divulge the number of users who have accepted the terms so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Four-digit security code on CoWIN to minimise data entry errors||The CoWIN system is introducing a new feature of four-digit security code from May 8 to minimise data entry errors about vaccination status that would subsequently reduce inconvenience caused to citizens, the health ministry said. “It has been noticed in some instances that citizens who had booked their appointment for COVID-19 vaccination through the CoWIN portal but did not actually go for vaccination on the scheduled date have received SMS notification that a vaccine dose has been administered to them,” it said. “Upon examination, it has been found to occur largely on account of the vaccinator wrongly marking the citizen as vaccinated, an instance of data entry error by the vaccinator,” it stated. "In order to minimize such errors and the subsequent inconvenience caused to the citizens, the CoWIN system is introducing a new feature of four-digit security code in the CoWIN application from May 8. "Now, after verification, if the beneficiary is found eligible, before administering the vaccine dose, the verifier/vaccinator will ask the beneficiary about his four-digit code and then enter the same in the CoWIN system to correctly record the vaccination status," the ministry said in its statement. This new feature will be applicable only for citizens who have done an online booking for a vaccination slot. The four-digit security code will be printed in the appointment acknowledgement slip and will not be known to the vaccinator. The code will also be present in the confirmation SMS sent to the beneficiary after successful booking of an appointment. The appointment acknowledgement slip can also be saved and shown from the mobile. This will ensure that for those citizens who have booked an online appointment, the data entries regarding vaccination status of a citizen are recorded correctly, the ministry said in a statement. This will also reduce the opportunities of impersonation and wrongful use of flexibilities provided in CoWIN for facilitating vaccination coverage. The ministry advised the citizens must carry a digital or physical copy of their appointment slip and the registered mobile phone with appointment confirmation SMS, so that the security code can be furnished for easy completion of vaccination recording process. “Citizens must provide the security code to the vaccinator as the digital certificate will be generated only after the vaccination record has been updated with the security code. Citizens should get a confirmation SMS after the process has been successfully completed. The confirmation SMS indicates that the vaccination process has been completed successfully and the digital certificate has been generated. If one does not get the confirmation SMS, one should get in touch with the vaccinator or the vaccination centre in-charge,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Big blow to Centre as SC upholds Karnataka HC’s order on oxygen supply||The Supreme Court Friday said it will not leave Karnataka citizens in the lurch as it refused to interfere with the Karnataka High Court order asking the Centre to increase the daily oxygen allocation for the state from 965 MT to 1,200 MT for treating Covid-19 patients. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the high court order of May 5 is a well-calibrated, deliberated and judicious exercise of power. It refused to accept the Centre's contention that if every high court starts passing orders for allocating oxygen, it would make the supply network of the country unworkable. The bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, that it has read the sequence of events and it can say that it is a well-calibrated, deliberated and judicious exercise of power after taking into account the number of Covid-19 positive cases. We will not interfere with it. It said the order does not preclude the Centre from considering the representation of the state government and work out a mutual resolution mechanism of supplying 1,200 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Mehta said every state needs oxygen but his concern is that if all the high courts start directing LMO allocation of the said amount then it will be a big problem. The bench said it was looking at the wider issue and we will not keep citizens of Karnataka in the lurch. It said the high court had not passed the order without considering the facts and circumstances and it is based on the projection of Covid-19 cases made by the state government itself of a minimum of 1,165 MT of LMO. The High Court has furnished adequate reasons for passing the ad-interim order having regard to the fact that the projection of demand made by the state was a minimum of 1,165 MT of LMO. The direction of the High Court is only ad-interim and it does not preclude a mutual resolution mechanism between the Centre and the state, it said. It added that the High Court has considered the death of people in Chamarajanagar and Kalburgi among other places due to shortage of oxygen and added, Judges are also human beings and they are also seeing the suffering faced by the people. The High Courts will not simply shut their eyes. The Centre in its appeal filed on Thursday had said that the High Court has passed the order based on purported shortage of oxygen in the city of Bangalore and it will have a cascading effect and result in the total collapse of the system of supply network of LMO. The high court had noted that the required quantity of LMO was not allotted to the state and directed the Centre to increase the allocation to 1,200 MT of oxygen. It had said that the Centre has not offered any explanation as to why buffer stock of LMO was not created despite the directions of the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||India crippled by political leadership that has no empathy for people, says Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the Modi government of having failed the people of the country in handling the pandemic and demanded that an all-party meeting be convened immediately on the Covid-19 situation. The battle against the pandemic transcends political differences and everyone has to fight it together as a nation, she said at a virtual meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party. She also demanded that a meeting of the standing committees must be convened to ensure collective action and accountability to combat the pandemic better. Launching a fierce attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi charged that India is crippled by political leadership that has no empathy for the people and has failed the people of the country. "Let us be absolutely clear -- the system hasn't failed. The Modi government has been unable to constructively channelise India's many strengths and resources. I say this categorically - India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people. The Modi Government has failed the people of our country," she told the MPs. She said the Congress firmly believes that fighting the pandemic is not a 'Government versus Us' battle but a 'Us versus Corona' battle. "This battle transcends political differences. We have to fight this battle together as a nation. In that spirit, as a first step, I believe that the Modi government must urgently call an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation," she said. "The Congress Party also demands that standing committees must be convened to ensure collective action and accountability to combat the pandemic better," she said. Gandhi told the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to bring to the notice of the Presiding Officer the Report of Standing Committee on Health presented in October 2020 and demand that he take action on the recommendations of the report. "The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership," she said. The nation, she charged, is sinking under the weight of the Modi government's indifference and incompetence and told party MPs that this is the time to rededicate themselves in the service of our people. The Congress chief said the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Committee was being held in extraordinary circumstances, with India being in the grip of a deadly health disaster. She said thousands have died and millions are scrambling to access basic healthcare, life-saving medicines, oxygen, and vaccines. It is heartbreaking to see people battling for their lives in hospitals, on roads, waiting in vehicles, far too many for want of any medical help at all, she said. "And what is the Modi government doing? Instead of alleviating their suffering and pain, it has abdicated its fundamental responsibilities and duties towards the people," she lamented. She also alleged that the government's vaccination policy is inequitable and will exclude millions of Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the marginalised. "It is utterly shocking to see the Modi government abdicate its moral obligation and its sworn duty towards the people," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Central vista is criminal wastage, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the Union government over the central vista project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked the dispensation to focus on people's lives. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPWD, which is executing the project, had revised its estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. "Central Vista is criminal wastage. Put people's lives at the centre -- not your blind arrogance to get a new house," he said on Twitter. Gandhi and his Congress party have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the central vista project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the COVID-19 pandemic to save people's lives. It has also criticised the government for according the construction work of the Central Vista project "essential services" tag and has and accused it of having its priorities wrong. The work on the project has continued despite the lockdown in the national capital that has brought most construction sites to a grinding halt. The construction work for the project has been brought under the ambit of "essential services", a move that been flayed by the opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||India adds over 4.14 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,915 casualties in a day||With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 36,45,164 comprising 16.96 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.95 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,76,12,351, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7,30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,86,01,699 samples have been tested up to May 6 with 18,26,490 samples being tested on Thursday. The 3,915 new fatalities include 853 from Maharashtra, 350 from Uttar Pradesh,335 from Delhi, 328 from Karnataka, 212 from Chhattisgarh, 195 from Tamil Nadu, 177 from Haryana, 161 from Rajasthan, 154 from Punjab, 151 from Uttarakhand, 133 from Jharkhand, 123 from Gujarat and 117 from West Bengal. A total of 2,34,083 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 73,515 from Maharashtra, 18,398 from Delhi, 17,212 from Karnataka, 14,974 from Tamil Nadu, 14,501 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,964 from West Bengal, 9,979 from Punjab and 9,950 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court oxygen prod to hospitals ||Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was “imperative” for all private hospitals in Maharashtra to have their own oxygen plants to deal with the increasing cases of Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said: “Now that a third wave is likely, why must private hospitals not be made to have their own oxygen plants? At least to meet their own demands for active consumption? After all, they charge all patients,” the bench said. The court referred to a newspaper report from Thursday morning, according to which a private hospital in Sangli had set up its own oxygen supply to tackle the increasing cases of Covid-19. “If a hospital in Sangli can do so, why can’t private hospitals in places such as Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad set up their own oxygen plants?” it asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||SC upholds right to report court proceedings ||The Supreme Court on Thursday stressed the importance of the media covering court proceedings and not just written orders, formalising its earlier refusal to entertain an Election Commission plea to gag the media from reporting courts’ oral observations. “(The) freedom of speech and expression extends to reporting the proceedings of judicial institutions,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah ruled. “Citizens are entitled to ensure that courts remain true to their remit to be a check on arbitrary exercises of power. The ability of citizens to do so bears a direct correlation to the seamless availability of information about what happens in a court during the course of proceedings. Therein lies the importance of freedom of the media to comment on and write about proceedings.” On Thursday, the apex court came out with the “balanced” written order that it had promised on Monday while orally declining to entertain the poll panel’s plea to restrain high courts from making stinging oral observations and the media from reporting them. The bench had also refused to restrain the country’s police from registering murder cases against Election Commission (EC) officials on the basis of oral observations by Madras High Court that had blamed the poll panel for the Covid resurgence. Madras High Court had on April 26 castigated the EC for allowing large poll rallies and observed orally that the commission was “singularly responsible for the second wave of Covid-19” and that the EC “should be put up for murder charges”. While reaffirming Monday’s observations, Thursday’s written apex court order emphasised the importance of the country’s “open court system” and of media scrutiny to the preservation  of citizens’ constitutional rights. The Supreme Court order said that except for in-camera proceedings and matters like child sex abuse or marital privacy, India’s legal system was founded on the principle that open access to courts was key to safeguarding constitutional freedoms. “Public scrutiny is crucial to maintaining transparency and accountability. Transparency in the functioning of democratic institutions is crucial to establish the public’s faith in them,” the judgment said. “There are multiple ways in which an open court system contributes to the working of democracy. An open court system ensures that judges act in accordance with law and with probity. Public scrutiny fosters confidence in the process. Public discussion and criticism may work as a restraint on the conduct of a judge.” The media’s right to report court proceedings is “also a part of the process of augmenting the integrity of the judiciary and the cause of justice as a whole”, the court said. However, the apex court disapproved of the high court’s observations, saying the remarks were “harsh” and “the metaphor inappropriate”. It asked the high courts to exercise caution while making off-the-cuff remarks in open court. “We hope the matter can rest with a sense of balance which we have attempted to bring. These oral remarks (by the high court) are not a part of the official judicial record, and therefore the question of expunging them does not arise,” the bench said. The bench reaffirmed its stand of Monday that the poll panel was free to approach Calcutta High Court and seek quashing of the culpable homicide FIR against deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain, who was in charge of the Bengal elections. The case was registered in Calcutta two days after the Madras High Court observations, on a complaint from the wife of Trinamul candidate Kajal Sinha who had died of Covid. Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the judgment, noted that the complaint made no reference to Madras High Court. He described as “misconceived” the EC’s plea for a general bar on murder FIRs against its officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: Violence breaks out after results declared||Violence has erupted across Uttar Pradesh following the announcement of the panchayat poll results, killing at least five people since Tuesday, while BJP leaders are sitting in dharna in every district against the post-Assembly-poll violence in Bengal. The rural poll results, announced from Monday to Wednesday, show the Samajwadi Party outperforming the ruling BJP as it had done in 2016. Fingers have been raised against both parties for the violence. BJP leaders and workers, including state unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh, have sat on dharnas for a few hours in front of their homes — complying with the Covid protocol — on Wednesday and Thursday in protest against the violence in Bengal after Trinamul’s Assembly election victory. Singh claimed the Uttar Pradesh police had been maintaining law and order effectively. “The Samajwadi goons are creating problems; the government will deal with them,” he said. Some of the prominent incidents of violence: # A man, Rama Shankar, was killed after a mob carrying sticks and sharp weapons barged into his home at village Tira in Gorakhpur, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s home district, on Tuesday evening. The family alleged they had been attacked because they had voted for a Samajwadi candidate in the gram panchayat polls and participated in the victory procession. The police have registered a case against six people but arrests are awaited. # A clash between supporters of two losing kshetra panchayat (equivalent to panchayat samiti) candidates in village Paikoli, Deoria district, killed a 65-year-old on Tuesday. Amit Singh, one of the candidates, said: “People who believe I caused their candidate’s defeat (by splitting votes) attacked my grandfather Bharat Kunwar Singh with a knife. He died on the way to hospital.” Gopal Prasad, a police officer, said: “We have registered a case against 10 accused and are trying to arrest them.” # Poonam Devi, daughter-in-law of a Bahujan Samaj Party-supported candidate in the gram panchayat elections, was shot dead on Tuesday night at village Isakpur, Azamgarh district. Ram Awadh Rajbhar, former gram panchayat chief, had fielded his wife Karma Devi but she lost. Twenty people attacked the family, accusing it of causing the defeat of their candidate and killing Poonam. Rajbhar’s daughter Priti took a bullet too while Ranjit Kumar, a neighbour, was wounded with a sharp weapon when he tried to intervene. Azamgarh superintendent of police Sudhir Kumar Singh said: “We have booked a dozen people. A hunt is on to arrest them.” # Criminals barged into a home in village Kandhikala, Jaunpur district, shot dead Santosh Verma, 35, and injured at least three members of his family. Santosh’s father Jawaharlal Verma told reporters: “We were attacked by BJP supporters because we had voted for an Independent candidate. The attack was planned by Amit Upadhyay, whose wife Asha Devi, a BJP-supported panchayat candidate, lost.” Jaunpur superintendent of police Raj Karan Nayyar said: “We have booked 10 people and arrested four.” # Rahisha Begum, resident of Bijnore, was killed soon after the zilla panchayat results were declared. She had been attacked because her family had voted for the Samajwadi candidate, a relative said. # A mob pelted the police with stones on a highway near Asepur village in Allahabad district on Wednesday after a social media post claimed the returning officer was withholding the announcement of an Independent candidate’s victory under BJP pressure. The police fired in the air to disperse the crowd. Dhawal Jaiswal, additional superintendent of police, said the person who had posted the “false” message would be identified and booked. # Matiur Rahman Khan, vice-president of the Congress’s Rampur district unit, was attacked near village Lalpur Kalan on Tuesday night while returning home to the city after the poll results had been declared. Khan, who had lost from Ward 15 in the zilla panchayat election, has been admitted to hospital. # On Wednesday evening, violence erupted in Brahmpur block of Chauri Chaura, Gorakhpur, while supporters of two village panchayat candidates were protesting against alleged counting fraud. As the police used mild force to disperse them, the crowd burnt a bus of the Provincial Armed Constabulary and the local block office. Ravi Pratap Nishad, BSP candidate from Ward 60, said: “The electoral officer issued winners’ certificates to Samajwadi candidate Gopal Yadav from Ward 60 and Ramesh Kumar, an Independent, from Ward 61 when I had already won from Ward 60 and (BSP colleague) Kodai Sahni from Ward 61.” Vijayendra Pandian, district electoral officer, said: “Virendra Kumar, the returning officer, issued the certificates to the wrong people. Nishad and Sahni have now received the winners’ certificates and a case has been filed against Kumar.” # On Wednesday night, supporters of a defeated gram panchayat candidate allegedly attacked the family of winner Maya Pandey in village Bhelipatti, Deoria. Ram Laxman Verma, 60, hired to make sweets at Pandey’s home, was injured in the left eye. Pradeep Sharma, the local police inspector, said: “Three people have been taken into custody.” # Five people were injured in village Govindpur of Moradabad district on Wednesday. Dulha Hasan, who has won the gram panchayat election, said: “My supporters were attacked by supporters of Murad Ali, who lost the election.” Both were Independent candidates. Nawab Singh, officer in charge of Mundapande police station, said a case had been registered against four people. The Samajwadis have bagged 791 zilla panchayat seats, the BJP 601, the BSP 361 and the Congress 59. The smaller parties and Independents have won over 1,000 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal and Modi in oxygen truce ||A thaw emerged on Thursday in the legal and political clash between Delhi and the Centre over alleged inadequate oxygen supply to the capital, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for sending the highest daily supply so far during the pandemic on Wednesday. “Delhi’s oxygen usage is 700 metric tonnes per day. We are continuously requesting the central government to give us this much oxygen. Yesterday, for the first time, Delhi received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen. On behalf of the people of Delhi, I express our gratitude. I request that at least this much oxygen be given to Delhi everyday and not be reduced,” Kejriwal said in a letter to Modi. Delhi has been facing an acute oxygen shortage and several Covid patients are alleged to have died in hospital for want of the life-saving gas. The average oxygen supplied over the last week was 474 metric tonnes per day. The Delhi chief minister said in a webcast: “If we receive 700 metric tonnes of oxygen daily, we can create several oxygen beds in Delhi. Presently, given the scarcity of oxygen, we can only create 5,000 beds at Radha Soami Satsang, 2,500 beds at two places in Burari, 1,000 beds at the Commonwealth Games Village and 1,000 beds at the Yamuna Sports Complex. Around 9,000-9,500 beds can be prepared if we get adequate oxygen.” Kejriwal’s comments come at a time when Delhi and the Centre have been fighting a case in the Supreme Court on the allocation of oxygen. The Delhi government has drawn flak for not doing enough to establish a supply chain of oxygen and facilities for treatment when cases were low in January and February. This has led to a flight of patients to hospitals in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The Delhi government fixed rates for ambulances on Thursday to curb overcharging for these long hauls. Delhi High Court on Thursday said the existing medical infrastructure in the national capital had been “exposed” and found to have been in a “shambles” when put to the test during the pandemic and directed the state government to provide treatment to all Covid patients. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli further said the government was behaving like an ostrich with its head in the sand if it was disputing that the medical infrastructure had not crumbled. “Now you are behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand. When you defend this situation, then you are not rising above the politics. We always call a spade a spade,” the bench said to senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, when he argued that the court may not say the medical infrastructure was in a shambles. The bench said: “The existing medical infrastructure in the state is completely exposed... when it was put to the test…” Mehra said the government had taken several initiatives, like augmenting beds by 15,000 and ICU beds by 1,200, which are in the “pipeline” and oxygen was also coming in. However, the bench said: “No, that is not right. It is not just oxygen. Is oxygen enough? If you have oxygen, do you have everything? Pipeline is pipeline. They are not there now.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Probe coronavirus, not Bengal post-poll violence: Congress||The Congress on Thursday said central committees should be deployed to investigate the mismanagement of the Covid crisis with over 4 lakh daily cases and close to 4,000 deaths, not to probe stray incidents of post-poll violence in Bengal. Responding to the Narendra Modi government’s decision to send a four-member home ministry team to Bengal to examine the bloodshed after the elections in which Trinamul comprehensively defeated the BJP, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Does the Centre not have faith in the police and the judiciary of Bengal, and the elected government there? A probe is needed into the reasons for such a large number of deaths caused by the coronavirus everyday; into why 4 lakh new cases are coming up daily. Who ignored the specific alerts? Who was supposed to prepare for the second wave?” The Congress is aghast that the Prime Minister promptly spoke to the Bengal governor to enquire about the stray incidents of violence but had remained silent on the national outcry over the oxygen crisis and the overwhelming rush at hospitals and crematoriums. “The situation is going from bad to worse and Modi is sitting quiet like a blindfolded Dhritarashtra. He won’t even acknowledge constructive suggestions given by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Recently, 300 top officials were briefed on how to refurbish the government’s image. The entire focus is on managing perceptions,” Shrinate said. Demanding the immediate sacking of health minister Harsh Vardhan and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar for “making a mockery” of people’s miseries and showing insensitivity, the Congress lamented that the Centre was still not alarmed by the horrific situation and was wasting time on unimportant issues and diversionary tricks. “The priorities of the government are so horribly wrong,” Shrinate said, wondering how a government could be so disconnected from ground realities. The Congress made the following demands: ⚪ Stop all wasteful expenditure, the country needs oxygen and vaccines, not the Central Vista project and luxurious planes ⚪ Evolve a fair and transparent system of distributing aid coming from foreign countries ⚪ Reach out to the scientific community and experts, instead of sitting in an echo chamber, to understand the whole gamut of the Covid crisis ⚪ Focus on crisis management instead of wasting time on managing perceptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Appeals for help as coronavirus leaves kids without carers||When an Indian children’s rights group tracked down two boys aged 6 and 8 after it was told that their parents were both severely ill with Covid-19 and unable to care for them, the children had not eaten for days. The case, reported by the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) group, which located the boys in a small town in India’s rural heartland, was one of a growing number of emergencies involving children affected by the country’s devastating coronavirus crisis. The exponential rise in infections and deaths has left some children, particularly in poor communities, without a carer because their parents or other relatives are too ill to cope or have died. “Because the number of deaths has increased, the crisis is that either children are losing their parents, or their caregivers are hospitalised, and there is no one to take care of them,” said Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of the BBA. India’s underfunded social services are struggling to cope, and in certain parts of the country there is still stigma surrounding people who contract the virus, leaving some children isolated. “Neighbours and extended family do not want to help because they are afraid of infection, treating these families almost like outcasts,” said Tingal. He did not share further details of the two boys because of concern for their privacy. Tingal said the BBA, which is headed by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Kailash Satyarthi, started receiving calls about children in dire situations linked to the Covid-19 outbreak in early April. The volume of calls increased after Satyarthi posted a helpline number on Twitter on April 29. The BBA now receives about 70 calls a day seeking help for children whose parents are dead or seriously ill, and a greater number of calls from parents who have tested positive and want to know if the group can take care of their children if their health fails. With 3.57 million active cases of Covid-19, India recorded more than 400,000 new infections over the last 24 hours — the highest daily tally reported globally — while deaths rose by a record 3,980. Experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher. Citizens across the country, the world’s second most populous, are struggling to find beds, oxygen, or medicines needed for treatment, and many are dying for lack of treatment. Desperate pleas to help children have been appearing on social media. “Need a breast milk donor for a one-day-old baby in Delhi. Her mother passed away due to Covid,” read one tweet. The person later said help had been found. Protsahan India Foundation, a children’s rights NGO, said its frontline workers recently attended to children who had gone without food for days after their mother, the main caregiver, passed away. “The father is a daily wage worker and is in a state of shock and trauma himself. We are helping with food and immediate care, education and protection needs of those kids,” said Sonal Kapoor, founder-director at Protsahan. In Karnataka, an epicentre of the second wave, the government has appointed an official to identify children orphaned by Covid-19 to ensure they receive appropriate support. The state this week also ramped up messaging around children’s safety and appealed to citizens not to seek help online from unknown groups. In New Delhi, the city-state’s child protection arm this week wrote to the police asking them to investigate posts on social media calling for urgent adoptions. “They may also be cases of trafficking and sale-purchase of the children,” the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||NEET: SC suggests grace marks for MBBS graduates working on Covid front||The Supreme Court on Thursday suggested that grace marks be awarded in this year’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (PG) to those MBBS graduates who agree to participate in the country’s battle against Covid. At an earlier hearing, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah had asked the Centre to consider enlisting the country’s 1.5 lakh medical PG aspirants in the Covid campaign. The bench said the 2.5 lakh fresh nursing graduates too could be drafted into the effort. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta said that following the court’s earlier suggestion, the Union health ministry had written to all the states to persuade their fresh medical graduates to help with Covid management, and proposed that final-year MBBS students might be deployed in tele-consultation. “The most important thing missing is that they (PG aspirants) need to be given additional marks in NEET. Money will not be an incentive; this will be,” the bench said. Mehta replied: “This suggestion will be taken into account at the highest level.” Justice Shah said: “This can’t be only on paper; you have to seek compliance from the states.” The court was hearing the Centre’s appeal against a Delhi High Court contempt notice to its officials for failing to comply with orders to supply 700 tonnes of oxygen daily to Delhi to meet a severe shortage. On Wednesday, the apex court had stayed the contempt notice. The bench, however, reaffirmed that the Centre must ensure a minimum supply of 700 tonnes oxygen to Delhi every day till next Monday. Mehta protested: “If we have to supply 700 (tonnes) then I have to take someone else’s share. If there is an adverse consequence then we can’t be held responsible....” The court said it would look into the matter but the government must supply 700 tonnes of oxygen to Delhi every day till Monday. It said that apart from Delhi, the Centre needed to formulate a fresh plan to supply oxygen across the country, including rural areas. The observation came after the Centre filed a fresh application challenging Karnataka High Court’s May 5 order to ensure a daily supply of 1,200 tonnes of oxygen to the southern state. “Your formula needs a relook. When you prepared the formula not everybody who went to ICU needed oxygen. But now many home isolation patients need oxygen. Your formula does not take into account ambulances, Covid care facility, etc. The formula is a gross underestimate for Delhi,” Justice Chandrachud observed. “There is a judicial order in Karnataka — we need to look at this (on a) pan-India basis. We need to do an oxygen audit and (see) what is the accountability when stocks are redistributed. We are not today in Stage 1 of the pandemic.” He added: “We may enter Stage 3 and if we prepare today we may be able to handle it.... It is not (just) about allocating (oxygen) to the states but also (about) the logistics to see that it is distributed (among the) hospitals.” The court asked the Centre to come out with a plan to tackle a possible third wave of the epidemic. “The third surge in India, which is around the corner according to experts, will affect children,” the bench said. “So when a child goes to a Covid hospital, a mother and father will go…. We need to plan for this in a scientific way.” Justice Chandrachud suggested the Centre explore the Maharashtra model, saying the state had created a task force of 11-12 doctors who constantly communicated with the rural hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid-scarred JNU students wary of exams||MA students at the Centre for Historical Studies of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) are worried about the impending online first-semester exams at a time many of them have said they are not mentally prepared because of the toll the pandemic has taken on them. With the exams set to begin on May 15, many students or their family members are down with Covid, with several requiring hospital care. The JNU administration has allowed its centres and faculty members to go ahead with online exams for the first semester. Many centres, or departments, have already held online exams. “These are very unusual times. Many students have themselves suffered. Parents and relatives of many students have been in hospital. Neither the university nor any faculty member spoke to us to find out if we are mentally prepared for the exam,” a student said, preferring anonymity. “We have written to the head of the department multiple times, requesting that a meeting of students and faculty be held, or the exams be suspended for now. But we have not received a response,” the student added. Several academics said many other universities might switch to online exams this session because of the freedom given by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator. The UGC on Thursday issued a letter to all universities asking them to defer offline exams scheduled for May, but allowed the higher educational institutions to conduct tests online “after assessing local conditions”. “However, for conduct of online examinations, HEIs (higher educational institutions) may decide suitably after assessing local conditions and ensuring that they are prepared in all respects following advisories/guidelines/directions issued by the central/state government, ministry of education or the UGC from time to time to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and for the safety and health of all stakeholders,” the letter, issued by UGC secretary Rajnish Jain, said. A UGC official said the commission expects the universities to use their “wisdom” and take “judicious” decisions on online exams. Delhi University (DU) had planned to start its semester exams online in the open-book mode from May 15 but have now pushed back the schedule to June 1 in view of the pandemic. “Because the UGC has now sent this letter, many universities may go for online exams. The UGC should have disallowed online exams too,” said Rajesh Jha, a former Executive Council member of DU. He said the credibility of online exams was questionable. Jha cited the example of Delhi Technological University where there was a sharp increase in the number of students scoring high marks in online exams that had allegedly been conducted without credible invigilation. The JNU student who said many might not be mentally prepared for exams pointed to another problem — lack of high-speed Internet and devices such as computers and smartphones. A survey by the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) last year had found that 40 per cent students could not take part in online classes due to lack of devices and stable Net connections. “We have to write the answers on paper and take pictures and upload them. We need good devices and strong Internet connectivity. Many students do not have these. The university never bothered to provide us the logistics,” the student said. The UGC official said proper guidelines for the conduct of exams would be issued soon to provide clarity on the assessment process and the academic calendar. The JNUTA said two proposals had been submitted by the faculty to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar requesting for Covid care on the campus but no action had been taken. The faculty at the Centre for Social Medicine and Community Health had suggested the formulation of a comprehensive Covid-care plan while teachers at the School of Life Sciences had proposed the conversion of liquid nitrogen to medical oxygen in the campus laboratories. According to the proposals, there should also be Covid counselling over phone for those in home isolation, an isolation centre and an oxygen support unit on the campus to provide primary care to the JNU community. The Telegraph sent an email to VC Kumar asking about the demands but obtained no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Tehsildar attacked for Covid rule raid in Balasore||A woman tehsildar, Anamika Singh, was reportedly beaten up by locals while conducting a raid to implement the Covid guidelines during an 11th day ritual ceremony.  The incident took place on Wednesday night in Balasore district, about 220km from here. Singh, the Balasore Sadar tehsildar (a senior Odisha Administrative Service (OAS) cadre officer), on Thursday sat on a dharna in her office demanding justice and arrest of the accused involved in the attack on her. After the district collector and superintendent of police intervened, she preferred to leave the office and stay back in her house and not press the issue further. Talking to The Telegraph, Anamika said: “I was quite upset the way local police handled the case. Those who had attacked me were allowed to go within a few hours of detention. If being in the administration, I am not able to do my duty as per the guidelines of the government, it’s better to sit at home.” After receiving information about more than 60 people having gathered at a 11th daily rituals of a Covid-19 victim, the tehsildar went to the spot. “All the hell broke loose when I reached the spot at village Hinjili at 7pm on Wednesday. The relatives were scared to attend the function which was organised in the memory of a 70-year old woman who passed away due to Covid,” she said. As per the government guidelines, only 20 people are allowed to attend a funeral function. The tehsildar said, “When we asked people to leave the spot and we began the process to seize food, the family members suddenly attacked me and my team members. They even pushed me to the ground. We failed to video graph the entire incident. When I sat on dharna, the situation subsided. Even the police did not reach the spot despite my SOS sent to them. After the collector rushed to the spot, things came under control. They even took three people to the police station but the prime accused managed to abscond.” But things turned bitter for the tehsildar after the police released the three people detained in this connection. “When I had asked the local inspector about the progress of the case on Thursday morning, he informed me that they had released them because one of them is suspected to be Covid positive. When I asked them to give the medical reports, they failed to do so,” Anamika said. When the young tehsildar raised the issue and decided to sit on a dharna, the district administration rushed to her and persuaded not to put the administration on a backfoot. “The collector assured me to take strict legal action against the accused. However feeling uncomfortable, I decided to leave the office,” she said. Balasore SP Sudhanshu Sekhar Mishra told this newspaper, “There is a mis-communication with the tehsildar. As one of detainees has shown Covid symptoms, we released them. Another person was a lady, so we decided to release her. But let me clarify those who have violated the law will be booked. Stringent action will be taken against them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Odisha daily Covid cases cross 10,000 ||There is no sign of climbdown of Covid-19 cases in Odisha despite the ongoing 14-day lock down. The state on Thursday reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases that surged past the 10,000 mark. It reported 10,521 fresh cases during the past 24 hours. Besides, the state witnessed 17 deaths and the total death toll reached 2,121. So far, the Covid-19 cases in Odisha have reached 5,00,162 and the number of active cases is 81,585. “We are more worried as most of the cases are local contact cases. As many as 88 per cent of the total cases reported in Bhubaneswar city, are from local contacts. People need to abide by the laws,” officials said, adding that the city registered a total of 1,074 Covid cases in the last 24 hours. So far the city has witnessed 49,330 Covid-19 cases. Among the districts, Khurda district registered the highest number of Covid cases (1,417). The issue of non-adherence to Covid guidelines surfaced with Odisha police releasing the figure of how 1.5 lakh people were slapped with fine only in April for wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It collected Rs 5.66 crore as fine from these willful violators. While Rs 5.24 was collected as fine from people for mask violation, the rest Rs 40,000 was collected for not adhering to social distance norms. “This only reflects how the people are blind to the guidelines,” said a senior police official. Director General of Police Abhya said: “It has been observed that a substantial number of people are not following Covid protocols. The number of Covid-19 cases will subside if people wear masks all times. It’s time to cooperate with the administration.” In order to avoid congregations of people seeking permission to hold marriage and funeral functions at the police stations, the commissionerate police have asked people to seek the permission by dialling 100. “People seeking permission to organise marriage functions and funerals can dial to 100 or whatsapp the message using 8144207100. We will send a particular format. People can fill up the format and send it back to us. We will dispatch the permission letter through whatsapp immediately. There is no need to run to the police station,” deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Das told reporters on Thursday. In order to gear up the district machinery to fight against the Covid-19, the Odisha government on Thursday released an additional amount of Rs 7.50 crore to three districts — Puri, Sambalpur and Subarnapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: India approves cocktail of two antibodies as new treatment||India has approved a new treatment for Covid-19 patients — a cocktail of two antibodies that has been shown in trials to reduce hospitalisation or death by 70 per cent compared with those who did not get the cocktail. Roche India, the Indian arm of the Swiss pharmaceuticals company, announced on Wednesday that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the country’s drug regulatory authority, has granted an emergency use authorisation to the cocktail of casirivimab and imdevimab. The EUA will enable Roche to import the globally manufactured product batches to India where it will be marketed and distributed by the Indian company Cipla, Roche said. The antibody cocktail, approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in November 2020, is intended for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 and seeks to prevent their condition from worsening, Roche said. The company had in March this year announced the results of a large global trial involving over 4,500 high-risk hospitalised Covid-19 patients that had found that the antibody cocktail significantly reduced the risk of hospitalisation or death by 70 per cent in relation to those who received placebo. The antibody cocktail also shortened the duration of symptoms by four days, Roche said. Amid India’s still rising second Covid-19 wave — and over 3.48 million active patients on Wednesday — the company signalled that the initial local demand may “far exceed” the supplies that the company will be able to provide. “It is too early to say what specific amounts will be shipped to India,” a Roche spokesperson said. “We’re in discussion with our marketing partner to support access to this treatment for eligible patients.” The company also declined to specify the price of the product in India. “There will be differential pricing and the cost in India is likely to be among the lowest in the world,” the spokesperson told The Telegraph. Roche had said in January this year that it is collaborating with the US company Regeneron to increase the global supply of casirivimab and imdevimab with the aim to have more than two million doses available annually. Roche will be responsible for development and distribution outside the US. The US government had announced in January this year that it would purchase up to 1.25 million doses of the antibody cocktail and make them available “at no cost to patients”, though healthcare facilities could charge fees related to administration. Casirivimab and imdevimab are so-called monoclonal antibodies specifically directed against the spike protein of the novel coronavirus and designed to block entry of the virus into human cells. Roche said the antibody cocktail is to be administered for the treatment of mild or moderate Covid-19 in adults and pediatric patients 12 years or older weighing at least 40kg who are at high risk of developing severe Covid-19. The US FDA had in November 2020 said casirivimab and imdevimab are not authorised for patients who are hospitalised due to Covid-19 or who require oxygen therapy due to Covid-19. A benefit of the cocktail has not been shown in hospitalised patients, the FDA had said. The CDSCO has so far approved under emergency use authorisation the antivirals remdesivir and favipiravir and the anti-inflammatory agents called tocilizumab and itolizumab for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Supplier booked over ‘unhygienic’ swab sticks||A case has been registered against a supplier of swab sticks used for collecting nasal and throat samples for Covid-19 testing after a video purportedly showed that the items were being packed in unhygienic conditions at a slum in neighbouring Thane district, police said on Thursday. Earlier this week, a video surfaced on social media, which showed that swab sticks were being packed at a slum in Sant Dnyaneshwar Nagar in Ulhasnagar, an official said. Following this, officials from the Food and Drug Administration, local civic body and police visited the slum and recovered packets of swab sticks from a few households on Wednesday, he said. A case has been registered against the supplier, who had hired labour from the households, he said, adding that no arrests have been made so far. The video showed women and children packing swab sticks, without wearing any gloves or masks. Some sticks were also left lying on floor mats and children handled them with their bare hands, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Jat leader Ajit Singh dies of Covid at 82||Ajit Singh, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president, prominent Jat and farmer leader and former Union minister, passed away at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning after battling Covid-19. He was 82. Ajit Singh’s son Jayant Chaudhary, the RLD vice-president, tweeted at 9.10am: “Chaudhary Sahib nahin rahe (Chaudhary Sahib is no more).” Jayant said Ajit Singh, the son of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, had tested positive for the coronavirus on April 20. Sources said he had suffered multi-organ failure”. Ajit Singh’s family said in a statement: “Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn, cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for your welfare.” Charan Singh and Mahendra Singh Tikait, the founder of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, had been the foremost Jat leaders, wielding influence in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Born on February 12, 1939, Ajit Singh studied at Lucknow University, IIT Kharagpur and the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. He was a computer scientist by profession and worked for 15 years in the US. He was elected to the Lok Sabha six times from Baghpat — twice on a Janata Dal ticket, once from the Congress-supported Bharatiya Kisan Kamgar Party and thrice from the RLD. He had also been a Rajya Sabha member once. Ajit Singh served as Union minister in the governments helmed by V.P. Singh, P.V. Narsimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh. Ajit Singh’s first ministerial assignment was the industries portfolio in 1989 in the National Front government. In 2011, he had been made civil aviation minister in the UPA government. Ajit Singh could gel easily with any political party or government, telling his voters that it was the need of the hour. Although he lost to the BJP from Baghpat in 1998 and 2014 and then from Muzaffarnagar in 2019, he continued to enjoy the support of the Jats, who are mostly farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his death. “I am very saddened by the death of former central minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh. He was devoted to the wellbeing of farmers,” Modi tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The untimely death of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh ji is a sad news. My condolence to his family and kin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Foreign media just won’t let Modi sleep in peace||A British newspaper has taken “India’s narcissistic Prime Minister” and “shameless demagogue” to task for building a Central Vista in New Delhi while “within a mile or two, people were still dying for lack of care in the dusty streets”. On a two-page spread on Thursday, The Daily Mail wrote: “The monstrous monument to Narendra Modi’s ego: As millions suffer in pandemic, India’s narcissistic Prime Minister is building a vast folly at a cost that could fund 40 major hospitals. Now his nation is in uproar.” It remains to be seen whether the Indian government responds to the article, especially with Modi expected to attend the G7 summit in Cornwall from June 11 to 13 as British Premier Boris Johnson’s guest. The article, written in London by staffer David Jones with inputs from Delhi by Amrit Dhillon and Sanjay Jha, tells readers: “This week, as a disastrous second wave of the pandemic continues to sweep through India, demands for the project to be halted have become more strident, even though Modi, who tacitly controls much of the media, has largely succeeded in keeping cameras away from the vast site in central Delhi. “Despite the death and despair all around him, however, this shameless demagogue — who on Tuesday agreed a £1 billion trade deal with Britain during a virtual summit with Boris Johnson — insists that the drive to complete the new building, derisorily dubbed ‘Modi’s Dream’, must continue apace.” The article adds: “Ludicrously, having all too belatedly placed the rest of Delhi in lockdown, he has even decreed that erecting this monument to his colossal ego must be classed as an ‘essential service’. The huge construction site has thus been exempted from Covid restrictions along with supplying food and tending the sick. “So, as Delhi’s 30 million desperate citizens beg for oxygen and hospital beds, and cremate their loved ones on makeshift funeral pyres in car parks, and as bodies lie in the potholed streets, some 2,000 workers continue to be bussed in each day to toil in a chaotic-looking crater bigger than 50 football stadiums.” It goes on: “Modi is being held personally responsible for causing India’s catastrophic coronavirus second wave by encouraging — and personally addressing — mass political rallies, permitting crowds at cricket matches, and giving his blessing to a Hindu festival which drew nine million people to the banks of the Ganges. “His reckless and ignorant pronouncement instilled disastrous complacency in the Indian people, compounded by the Delhi government’s utter lack of preparedness for the apocalyptic rebound.” Some readers have challenged the article. “What India does is India’s business,” was one comment. “More important is to trade with the world’s largest democracy and not China.” “Well done Modi the current Parliament does not serve its purpose which was built in 1921 under the empire,” said another. “India has not asked for loan from GB even though you looted billions.” Another reader wrote: “The new proposed building is required to accommodate larger number of MPs not far away once the delimitation exercise is complete. So, yes the timing and its optics are plain bad. One would have barely noticed this in normal times but alas we are living in a highly abnormal time and I guess in the next general election he will pay a high price for it.” A fourth wrote: “Modi has done wonders for India — pretending otherwise is wrong.” The article has to be set partly in the context of the “culture wars” raging in Britain for over a year. The Mail has opposed those who have sought to “rewrite” the history of the Empire to show it was entirely an evil enterprise. The article expresses anger that the capital designed by the “Surrey-born architect Sir Edwin Lutyens, the centre-piece of which is a circular Parliament House combining classical and Mughal styles”, is being overshadowed. It says: “The vainglorious man who now presides over the world’s biggest democracy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is determined to expunge this symbol of despised colonial rule and build its replacement far more quickly. “In August 2022, when India celebrates its 75th year of independence, he aims to open a garish new Parliament resembling a triangular wedding cake, the enormous scale of which will obscure Lutyens’s masterwork. In a seemingly vengeful act, the magnificent chamber Lutyens created will become a mere museum.... However, the revamped Central Vista will become a symbol of Modi’s much-vaunted ‘New India’. “To (sculptor) Anish Kapoor, the project is ‘Modi’s way of placing himself at the centre and cementing his legacy as the maker of a new Hindu India’. He claims the plans were passed ‘without due process’.” Readers are told the project “will include futuristic offices for its political secretariats, an underground railway, and an opulent mansion for the 70-year-old Premier, which was quietly slipped into the plans after they had been approved”. The article is unlikely to influence the British government’s policy towards India, which is always based on enlightened self-interest. But apart from damaging Modi’s standing, it may make the British people, normally very generous, less willing to make donations to India in its hour of need. “And the cost of this hideously ill-timed exercise?” the article asks. “Initial estimates suggested it would be an eye-watering £2 billion, but those familiar with India’s often corrupt and wasteful public building programmes suggest the final bill could be twice that amount. Even assuming it is ‘only’ £2 billion, it is a sum India sorely needs for other uses, as its health system collapses and it is forced to put pride aside by accepting international aid. “If Mr Modi needs reminding how the funds for his Vanity Palace could be redirected, Derek O’Brien, an MP with the Indian Opposition party Trinamul Congress has done the maths for him. ‘You could have vaccinated 80 per cent of the population of India for what you’re spending on that project,’ he declared angrily a few days ago.” The author adds his personal take: “By my own estimate, that £2 billion could also pay for 40 large, fully-equipped hospitals. The number of oxygen cylinders, PPE outfits and remedial drugs it could buy is vast.” The article seeks to psychoanalyse Modi’s motives: “The big question, of course, is why Modi is risking his reputation, and indeed perhaps his position as leader, by continuing with this grandiose scheme. For whatever else he might be accused of, this charismatic populist is nobody’s fool. “Even his enemies don’t suggest, then, that he is in power to line his bank account, like so many other Indian politicians. Nor that he is building the monstrosity in New Delhi because he hankers after its creature comforts. Materialistic he is not. “According to expert India-watchers, however, what Modi has craved since his days as a youthful revolutionary is recognition. Further, they say, he harbours an almost messianic desire to assume a place in the pantheon of great Indian statesmen alongside Gandhi and Nehru.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||India||Covid pandemic: Obituaries tell tales, corner Gujarat government||The obituary pages of local newspapers may be an apt starting point for those looking for clues to the extent of the toll Covid has taken on Gujarat. With each passing day, the obituary columns are becoming longer and longer to the point that the daily Saurashtra Bhaskar’s Bhavnagar edition on Thursday set aside eight of its 16 pages for obituary notices. The burgeoning death notices come amid apprehensions that the number of cases and casualties are being underreported for a variety of reasons. Saurashtra Bhaskar, a popular Gujarati newspaper, carried 238 obituaries on Thursday, a quantum jump from just 28 two months back on March 6. Sandesh, another leading Gujarati newspaper, says 12 coronavirus patients died on Wednesday in Kheda district of Gujarat, while the state government data says only two Covid-19 patients died in the district on Wednesday. Similarly, the Gujarat Samachar newspaper says 25 coronavirus patients died on Wednesday in Gandhinagar, a sharp contrast to the Gujarat government’s claim that no one died due to the virus in the district on Wednesday. The Opposition Congress claims that the BJP government in Gujarat is underreporting coronavirus cases to mask the real death count due to the pandemic. “The Vijay Rupani-led government in the state is suppressing coronavirus death figures to hide the reality from the people,” state Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said. Countering the allegations, the state government maintained that if a coronavirus patient with comorbidities dies, his death may not be attributed to the viral infection and every death is categorised according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. According to the state government’s data released on Wednesday, Gujarat recorded 133 deaths due to Covid-19 during the preceding 24 hours. This is in stark contrast with the 141 obituaries published in two major Gujarati language newspapers on Thursday, 85 in Gujarat Samachar and 56 in Sandesh. “The BJP government is hiding the actual death figures to cover up its failures in handling the pandemic. In many villages, the daily death toll is in double figures while the government data show single figures for the entire district,” Doshi said. Chief minister Vijay Rupani recently denied reports that the state government was hiding coronavirus fatalities. “As per ICMR guidelines, if a comorbid patient dies then a committee of experts decides the primary and secondary causes of the death. If the committee identifies the main cause of the death as a heart attack then even though the patient was infected, such death is not counted as caused by coronavirus. This system is followed in the entire country,” the chief minister had said. Gujarat High Court on Wednesday said the steps taken by the state government to contain the spread of Covid- 19 were not enough and further restrictions needed to be imposed while keeping in mind people’s welfare. The observation came after the state government informed the court about measures undertaken to stem the spread of the deadly virus. “Steps have indeed been taken by the state government... but the same is not enough in the present situation and further steps to break the chain is also required to make the public at large aware about the pandemic and its grave effect on the society by imposing further restrictions as may be thought fit in the present situation,” the court said. Gujarat on Wednesday reported 12,955 new coronavirus positive cases in the state while 12,995 people recovered from the infection and 133 patients died. With the addition of the new cases and the fatalities, the overall Covid-19 caseload in Gujarat rose to 633,427 and the death toll to 7,912, the health department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Nine-day lockdown in Kerala||Kerala will go into a nine-day lockdown from Saturday in view of the continuing surge in Covid cases that could soon overwhelm the state’s health services. The state government on Thursday declared a complete lockdown from May 8 to 16, allowing only essential and emergency services to continue. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier indicated that a complete lockdown would become inevitable if the situation worsened. State government sources said the lockdown was the last resort to ensure the healthcare system didn’t get overloaded under the rising number of Covid cases that stood at almost 42,000 on Wednesday with 3.75 lakh patients under treatment, most of them in home isolation. Although Vijayan had said the current situation with a positive rate of above 25 per cent was something that the state’s healthcare system could handle, he had warned that the system would come under pressure if the daily infection rate didn’t come down. One of the few oxygen-surplus states, Kerala has been trying to ramp up the availability of the life-saving gas considering the possibility of higher demand in the coming weeks. Vijayan had on Wednesday written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking 1,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen, citing a rise in the overall projected requirement. The chief minister had also requested for oxygen plants, concentrators and ventilators on priority, considering Kerala has one of the highest active caseloads in the country after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Kerala had tried a mini-lockdown by largely restricting unnecessary movement of people apart from a total shutdown during weekends. The decision to switch to a complete lockdown was taken as none of these restrictions had the desired effect on reining in the Covid cases in the state. Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association had last week urged the government to announce a full lockdown for two weeks. The body had highlighted that mutant strains of the virus were getting transmitted quickly as people were allowed to move around. Former finance minister Thomas Isaac told reporters that a complete lockdown was the only option as it won’t be prudent to put the healthcare system under pressure at this stage. “It is difficult to abruptly increase the number of ICUs and ventilators although we have sufficient facilities at the moment. The number of deaths could increase if such facilities run short since a certain segment of the patients would need them,” he said. Although the death rate remains low at 0.32 per cent, there has been a steady increase over the last few days. Fifty-eight Covid deaths were reported in the 24 hours until Wednesday evening. Added to the regular deaths, the rising Covid casualty has led to an unprecedented rush at crematoriums in Thiruvananthapuram. This has made the city corporation expedite work for an alternative facility in Kazhakkoottam, off the city, apart from the existing crematorium in Thycaud. “Only the mechanical work is remaining for the new crematorium in Kazhakkoottam that was sanctioned during the previous corporation’s tenure. Once that work is done, we will overcome this situation,” mayor Arya Rajendran told reporters on Thursday. The state has deployed additional services from places such as Bangalore to ferry those wanting to return home before the lockdown. A statement issued by Kerala State Road Transport Corporation quoted its chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar as saying that the additional services would operate from Thursday evening to Friday evening so that people wanting to return to their home state could do so before the lockdown kicked in on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
