08-05-2021||India||SC sets up task force to ‘scientifically’ allocate oxygen to states||The Supreme Court has constituted a 12-member National Task Force to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said that the rationale for constituting a task force at the national level is also to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to states and union territories. "The rationale for constituting a Task Force at a national level is to facilitate public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. We expect leading experts in the country shall associate with the Task Force, as members and resource persons," the court said, according to ndtv.com. "This will facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis," it added. The bench said the Union Cabinet Secretary will be the convenor of the task force and may nominate an officer not below the rank of Additional Secretary to depute for him, when necessary. The top court said in its order passed on May 6 uploaded on Saturday that the Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will be ex-officio member of the task force. The bench said that other members of the task force will be Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, Former Vice Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; and Dr JV Peter, Director, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. Five other members of the task force include Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram; Dr Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); and Dr Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi. The bench said that Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS), Delhi and Dr Zarir F Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai, will be members of the task force. On Thursday, the top court had directed the Centre to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes in collaboration with states and decentralise the location of the stocks so that it is immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted. The bench took up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and in the near future, how the government intends to allocate it to "critically affected" states and its monitoring mechanism to ensure supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Lockdown decision should be taken by Centre, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said a decision regarding the coronavirus lockdown should have been made by the Centre for better coordination among states. In a statement, the chief minister said several states have imposed a lockdown to tackle the problem and prohibited the entry of people from other states. "A lockdown is more needed than ever to prevent the infection spread. It is my opinion, on the basis of previous experience, the decision should have been made at the level of the Centre so that the common people, including the labourers, face minimum hardships and at the same time, there is better coordination among the states," Gehlot said. The Rajasthan CM also expressed concern that the infection is spreading fast in rural areas. He said to stop the virus spread, a strict lockdown will be in place across the state from Monday. It is the duty of every citizen to follow the guidelines, the chief minister said. The state government has decided to implement a strict lockdown in the state from May 10 to 24. During this period, marriage functions, intrastate movement and MGNREGA works have also been suspended. Only shops dealing in essential items will remain open during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||DCGI approves DRDO-made anti-Covid drug for emergency use||An anti-COVID oral drug developed by the DRDO has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients, the defence ministry said on Saturday.

Clinical trials of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence, it said.

The approval to the drug has come at a time when India has been grappling with a record-breaking wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched the country's healthcare infrastructure to its limit.

"In the ongoing second COVID-19 wave, a large number of patients are facing severe oxygen dependency and need hospitalisation.

"The drug is expected to save precious lives due to the mechanism of operation of the drug in infected cells. This also reduces the hospital stay of COVID-19 patients," the ministry said.

It said the anti-COVID-19 therapeutic application of 2-DG drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) in Hyderabad.

"On May 01, DCGI granted permission for emergency use of this drug as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe COVID-19 patients. Being a generic molecule and analogue of glucose, it can be easily produced and made available in plenty in the country," the ministry said in a statement.

Adjunctive therapy is a treatment used together with the primary treatment to assist it.

The drug comes in powder form in a sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water.

"It accumulates in the virus-infected cells and prevents virus growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique," the ministry said.

In terms of efficacy trends, the ministry said, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care (SoC) on various endpoints.

"A significantly favourable trend (2.5 days difference) was seen in terms of the median time to achieving normalisation of specific vital signs parameters when compared to SoC," it said.

"Clinical trial results of the drug have shown that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. A higher proportion of patients treated with 2-DG showed RT-PCR negative conversion in COVID patients," it added.

The ministry said the drug will be of immense benefit to the people suffering from COVID-19.

It said the DRDO started work on the project following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for preparedness against the pandemic early last year.

"In April 2020, during the first wave of the pandemic, INMAS-DRDO scientists conducted laboratory experiments with the help of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad and found that this molecule works effectively against SARS-CoV-2 virus and inhibits the viral growth," the ministry said.

Based on these results, the DCGI's Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) permitted Phase-II clinical trial of 2-DG in COVID-19 patients in May 2020.

The ministry said the DRDO, along with DRL started the clinical trials to test the safety and efficacy of the drug in COVID-19 patients.

"In Phase-II trials conducted during May to October 2020, the drug was found to be safe in COVID-19 patients and showed significant improvement in their recovery," it said.

"Phase IIa was conducted in six hospitals and Phase IIb (dose-ranging) clinical trial was conducted at 11 hospitals all over the country. Phase-II trial was conducted on 110 patients," it said.

The ministry said based on successful results, DCGI further permitted the Phase-III clinical trial in November 2020.

It said the Phase-III clinical trial was conducted on 220 patients between December 2020 to March 2021 at 27 COVID hospitals in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.

"The detailed data of Phase-III clinical trial was presented to DCGI. In 2-DG arm, a significantly higher proportion of patients improved symptomatically and became free from supplemental oxygen dependence (42 per cent vs 31 per cent) by Day-3 in comparison to SoC, indicating an early relief from Oxygen therapy/dependence," the ministry said.

"The similar trend was observed in patients aged more than 65 years," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Positive Covid test report now optional for hospitalisation, says Centre||In a significant directive to the states and Union Territories, the Union Health Ministry on Saturday said the requirement of a positive Covid-19 test report is not mandatory for admission to a health facility. In its revised national policy for admission of Covid patients to various dedicated health facilities, both public and private, the Union Health Ministry said no patient will be refused services on any account, including oxygen and essential drugs, even if he or she belongs to a different city. "In a significant directive to states, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has revised the national policy for admission of Covid patients to various categories of Covid facilities. "This patient-centric measure aims to ensure prompt, effective and comprehensive treatment of patients suffering from Covid-19," the ministry said. "Hospitals under the central government, state governments and UT administration, including private hospitals managing Covid patients, shall ensure that requirement of a positive test for Covid-19 virus is not mandatory for admission to a Covid health facility. "A suspect case shall be admitted to the suspect ward of Covid Care Centre (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) of Dedicated Covid Hospital (DHC) as the case may be," the directive to all the states and Union Territories said. It said no patient will be refused services on any count which includes medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city. "No patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located," it said. The ministry also said admissions to hospitals must be "based on need". "It should be ensured that beds are not occupied by persons who do not need hospitalization. Further, the discharge should be strictly in accordance with the revised discharge policy," it said. The Ministry said it has advised the chief secretaries of states/Union territories to issue necessary orders and circulars, incorporating these directions within three days, which shall be enforced till replaced by an appropriate uniform policy. The Union Health Ministry has earlier enunciated a policy of setting up three-tier health infrastructure for appropriate management of suspect/confirmed Covid-19 cases. The guidance document issued in this regard on April 7 envisaged the setting up of Covid Care Centre (CCC) that will offer care for mild cases. These have been set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges etc., both public and private, it said. Functional hospitals like CHC and others, which may be handling regular and non-Covid cases, may also be designated as Covid Care Centres as a last resort, it said. The other facility was the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) that offers care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate. "These should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry/exit/zoning. Private hospitals may also be designated as Covid Dedicated Health Centres. These hospitals would have beds with assured oxygen support," the ministry said. The last one - Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) was ordered to be set up to offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe. "These hospitals should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry/exit. Private hospitals may also be designated as Covid Dedicated Hospitals. These hospitals would have fully equipped ICUs, Ventilators and beds with assured Oxygen support," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Most MLAs of BJP won with EC's help, claims Mamata in Assembly||The first business of new the Assembly—election of the new Speaker—was held under a cloud of confrontation that was indicative of the  mood and tone of Bengal’s politics likely to hold  for the next five years. On Saturday, Biman Banerjee was elected unopposed as the Speaker of the state Assembly for the third term, with the main Opposition BJP staying away from the proceedings to protest post-poll violence in the state. Out of  294 Assembly seats, elections were held in 292 with Trinamul winning 213 seats and the BJP 77. Taking a dig at the BJP’s stance, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told the House that for most of the  Opposition MLAs victory was courtesy the Election Commission of India. "The people have boycotted them (Opposition MLAs). Without the EC’s help they could not have won 30 seats,” she said. During the run up to the Assembly elections, Mamata had called out the central poll panel for its bias in favour  of the ruling BJP at the Centre and facilitating its victory in the state. The decision to stagger  voting  to eight phases despite a raging pandemic was seen as a strategy to allow  top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to campaign extensively in the state. “It is the election commission’s role to stop rigging of votes. From the time of T.N. Seshan we have known that is the EC’s job. Now it has been reversed. In some places, rigging was carried out with the help of the EC. This is shameful. I have been fighting for free and fair elections since 1995. Three retired officers, nominated to oversee the elections are allowed to transfer serving officers with instructions on a chit. This way democracy cannot be saved,” Mamata said. Mamata said with the BJP’s mission to wrest the state in 2021 falling to pieces, the party was trying to create trouble and continuously disturb the state government. “In less than 24-hours since the government took oath they have started disturbing us. Central teams have been deputed. BJP is unable to accept this mandate,” she said. “We have found that 99 per cent of the videos of violence in the state are fake. Yesterday, someone informed me about a woman who had received rape threats. The police went and spoke with the girl she denied everything.” Taking the attack to the BJP’s door, Mamata questioned the decision to carry on with the Central Vista project while people were succumbing to Covid. “To vaccinate 1.40 crore people, around Rs 30 crore is required. This is no big amount for the Centre. But they can spend Rs 50,000crore on the Central Vista, new aircraft, statue, and not vaccines. The need for the day is universal vaccination,” she said. The chief minister claimed the 2021 Bengal Assembly poll  verdict was unparalleled. “No government has ever come to power with such a huge mandate. On an average, a Trinamul MLA has won by over 31,000 votes. No other Assembly has this kind of a record. This is a miracle. Women and the youth have voted for us,” she said. “Even Covid patients stood in the queue to cast their votes for us.” This time, the number of women legislators has dropped  from 41 in 2016 to 40.  About 14 per cent of the lawmakers in Bengal are in the age group of 25-40. Mamata has instructed Trinamul MLAs to stay vigilant in their respective  and foil any attempts to create disturbance. “If anyone tries to create any trouble alert the police.  Their only politics is to spread communalism. They tried it during the campaign, and they are trying to do it now after the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||SC orders release of prisoners who were granted bail earlier to decongest jails||Taking note of an "unprecedented surge" in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court on Saturday passed directions for decongestion of prisons and ordered forthwith release of all those prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant said that all those prisoners who were allowed to go out on bail in March last year by the high-powered committees of states and Union Territories (UTs), set up following the apex court's order, be granted the same relief without reconsideration by HPCs to avoid delay. "Further we direct that those inmates who were granted parole, pursuant to our earlier orders, should be again granted parole for a period of 90 days in order to tide over the pandemic," the bench said in its order uploaded on the apex court's website on Saturday. Referring to a judgement, the top court asked authorities not to arrest mechanically in cases where the maximum sentence is up to seven years of jail term. It also directed the high-powered committees to consider the release of fresh prisoners by adopting the guidelines of the National Legal Services Authority on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut tests positive for Covid||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Saturday said she has tested positive for the novel coronavirus and is under home quarantine. The 34-year-old actor, whose Twitter account was permanently suspended for repeated violations of rules earlier this week, shared her diagnosis on Instagram. "I was feeling tired and weak with slight burning sensation in my eyes for past few days, was hoping to go to Himachal so got my test done yesterday and today the result came I am covid positive. "I have quarantined myself, I had no idea this virus is having a party in my body," she wrote. Terming COVID-19 a "small time flu", Ranaut said she is determined to "destroy" the virus from her body. "...Now that I know I will demolish it, people please don't give anything any power over you, if you are scared it will scare you more, come let's destroy this Covid -19 it is nothing but a small time flu which got too much press and now psyching few people," she added. On Friday, Mumbai reported 3,040 new COVID-19 cases and 71 fresh fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Covid: India's death toll crosses 2.38 lakh with record 4,187 casualties in a day||A record 4,187 COVID-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of cases to 2,18,92,676, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. Registering a steady increase, active cases have reached 37,23,446 which comprise 17.01 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.90 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,79,30,960, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 30,04,10,043 samples have been tested up to May 7 with 18,08,344 being tested on Friday. The 4,187 new fatalities include 898 from Maharashtra, 592 from Karnataka, 372 from Uttar Pradesh, 341 from Delhi, 208 from Chhattisgarh, 197 from Tamil Nadu, 165 from Punjab, 164 from Rajasthan, 162 from Haryana, 137 from Uttarakhand, 136 from Jharkhand, 119 from Gujarat and 112 from West Bengal. Of the 2,38,270 deaths reported in the country so far, 74,413 were from Maharashtra, 18,739 from Delhi, 17,804 from Karnataka, 15,171 from Tamil Nadu, 14,873 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,076 from West Bengal, 10,158 from Chhattisgarh and 10,144 from Punjab. The health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Tamil Nadu announces total lockdown from May 10 to 24||With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sharp increase in the COVID-19 cases, the government on Saturday announced clamping a two-week "total lockdown" across the state to curb the spread of the pandemic, starting May 10. Chief Minister M K Stalin said in a statement that the lockdown was being enforced due to "unavoidable reasons" and pointed out that the decision was taken based on inputs received at a review meeting he had with district collectors on Friday, besides consultations with medical experts. The recommendations made by the Union Home and Health ministries had also been factored in. "The total lockdown will be enforced from 4 am on May 10 to 4 am on May 24 to further intensify the efforts to curb the spread of the disease," he said. Stalin announced relaxing existing restrictions on business hours for shops on Saturday and Sunday, when a full day-long lockdown is supposed to be in effect, allowing them to remain open till 9 pm to aid people since stricter curbs would kick in from May 10. The state-run liquor outlets operated by Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC), all bars, spas, gyms, beauty parlours, saloons, auditoria, cinema theatres, recreation clubs and amusement and zoological parks will be shut during this period. Beaches and tourist attractions in the hilly locations of Udhagamandalam and Kodaikanal will be out of bounds for people. Offices of government departments other than those dealing with essential services including Health, Revenue, Police, Fire and Rescue Services and Disaster Management will not function, he said. All private offices and companies and IT and ITES firms shall also remain closed and employees can work from home. Existing restrictions regarding places of worship, cap on attendees in wedding and death-related events will continue while educational institutions will remain closed. Inter and intra-district public and private bus services will be suspended while hire taxies and auto rickshaws cannot ply. Those travelling for essential work like wedding, death, interview or exams shall produce proof to be allowed permission to proceed, the chief minister added. Standalone shops selling vegetables, groceries, provision items, fish and meat products can remain open till 12 noon with only fifty percent customers. E-commerce firms distributing these can do so till noon, he added. "Other than the aforementioned shops, no other establishments can run," during the lockdown, Stalin said. There shall be no dine-in services in hotels and tea shops and the former can sell takeaways in staggered working hours through the day. Tea stalls have to down shutters by noon. Among those allowed to work during the lockdown period include media, courier firms, hospitals and related services, fuel outlets, continuous process industries, data centers, and telecom services, he said. State-run Amma Canteens will remain open, platform vendors selling vegetables and flowers can do so till 12 pm and fair price shops will work from 8 am to 12 noon, he said. Stalin urged people to follow the covid protocols and extend cooperation to the government's pandemic prevention activities. Tamil Nadu saw 26,465 new coronavirus cases on Friday, pushing the caseload to 13.23 lakh while a record 197 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 15,171. According to the health department, the active cases stood at 1,35,355. Stalin said 23 districts in the state had a positivity rate of 10 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Crowdfunding initiative launched for weary undertakers||Pity the undertakers — burying and burning all day long, chanting deep into the night yet never keeping pace with the corpses of India’s Covid-19 crisis. And all for what? “For every one body that I perform last rites for, there are a dozen more waiting. There is no social distancing, no sanitisers. It is a critical situation here,” crematorium worker Ram Karan Mishra, 30, told Reuters. The measly pay — up to Rs 400 a day — offers scant recompense for the risks and round-the-clock shifts that come with end-of-life rituals in a pandemic. All tasks breed exhaustion; many threaten infection. Now an innovative crowdfunding initiative has been launched in the capital to help make a gruelling job at least bearable. Created by management consultant Nandini Ghosh, the plan was hatched last Sunday and was up and running in a day. Food parcels were just the start, with speed of the essence as coronavirus ravages the world’s biggest democracy. India accounted for nearly half the Covid-19 cases reported worldwide last week, according to the World Health Organisation, with the country’s 24-hour death toll breaking ever-new records. What began as a modest initiative distributing food to 100 workers at a single cemetery has turned into a slick enterprise with Rs 1.5 million raised in 48 hours. Ghosh, 30, and with no expertise of crowdfunding, now has dedicated teams who run logistics, operations and social media accounts. Her teams have reached out to workers at eight crematoriums and graveyards — all in less than a week. “They are clearly worn out. The pyres are so hot and it is really tough for anybody to stand in the middle of that the whole day. There is a lot we don’t see,” said Ghosh. What can be seen is chilling. In scorching heat, Mishra stands by flaming pyres at the dusty Ghazipur crematorium, in the heart of Covid-ravaged Delhi, and chants prayers believed to release souls from some of the bodies among India’s 230,000-plus pandemic dead. Mishra is typical of his trade. Like thousands of crematorium and graveyard men — never women — he performs last rites while others arrange pyres or collect ashes, and has done so for weeks with no end in sight. “We do this as our duty to the society. Our country is going through a big crisis. If we don’t do it, who will?” The Ghazipur crematorium, one of Delhi’s busiest, now takes in 100-150 bodies a day, up from about eight a day pre-pandemic. As Indians of every class hustle for oxygen, ventilators and beds for their sick, the support for diggers is a rare nod to thousands of low-caste workers who feel trapped and overlooked. “I have sent my family back to our village. I live here now. There is no time. When the food came yesterday, it was a relief for us,” he said, before rushing to perform yet more last rites. Most crematorium workers come from marginalised communities and often inherit a job that nobody else much wants. Indians rely on them yet few appreciate them or understand the dangers that are now routine, campaigners said. “They are not being taken care of. They have no job security or social security. They are invisible to the world,” said M. Shankar, state convener of the Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, a non-profit working in Bangalore. “They have no recognition despite their work in the pandemic. I have not seen a single initiative for their welfare. If not for them, who will do this work?” Ghosh is an unlikely saviour to the diggers — it is her first foray into crowdfunding and she is learning on the job. Like many Indians doomscrolling through lockdown on social media, the 30-year-old read of their plight last weekend. Within days, food aide led to fresh appeals for sanitisers, drinking water and water coolers. She worried about the dearth of disinfectants for benches where people sit and bodies lie, all of which she can now buy from the money she has raised. Crowdfunding platform Milaap — host to Ghosh’s initiative — has recorded donations of Rs 1.45 billion from about 400,000 people, for campaigns for ration kits, personal protective equipment, ventilators and cooked meals. She has been joined by countless other campaigns on Indian crowdfunding platforms, with money and kit both pledged. The “Give India” platform has recorded Covid-19 donations worth Rs 2.76 billion and Ketto has raised Rs 3.2 billion, according to data posted on their websites. The site that Ghosh chose says a new Covid relief campaign launches every 20 minutes on its platform, with a 65 per cent rise in webpage visits during the pandemic’s lethal second wave. “This spreads a message of hope that people are willing to help each other in such unprecedented times,” said Mayukh Choudhury, chief executive officer of Milaap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Covid: India crippled by political leadership with no empathy for people, says Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the Covid-ravaged nation was sinking under the weight of the Narendra Modi government’s indifference and incompetence, asserting in no uncertain terms that “India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people”. Interacting with Congress members of Parliament through videoconferencing, Sonia insisted that the excuse attributing the Covid surge to the failure of the “system” was nothing but abdication of responsibility as the government had not only ignored advance warnings of a second wave but paid little attention to specific suggestions on tackling the crisis given by experienced people like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Insisting that battling the pandemic required “able, calm and visionary leadership”, Sonia said: “Let us be absolutely clear — the system hasn’t failed. The Modi government has been unable to constructively channel India’s many strengths and resources. I say this categorically — India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people. The Modi government has failed the people of our country.” As many MPs spoke of the gravity of the situation and lack of government support across the country, Sonia said: “It is heartbreaking to see people battling for their lives in hospitals, on roads, waiting in vehicles, far too many for want of any medical help at all. “The government’s own empowered groups and its national task force for Covid-19 had warned that a second wave was imminent and urged it to plan and prepare for it. The parliamentary standing committee on health and Opposition parties had raised serious concerns regarding our preparedness. Yet, earlier this year the Prime Minister arrogantly boasted that he had defeated the pandemic and his party obediently felicitated him for his so-called success.” Pointing to the failures to strengthen the supply chain or place sufficient orders for vaccines, the Congress chief said: “Instead, the government consciously chose to allocate thousands of crores for non-essential projects that have nothing to do with the people’s well-being. “Instead of helping desperate patients, some BJP governments have been using the state’s repressive power to arrest people merely for crying out for help. They are cracking down on citizens’ groups that are trying their best to help. They are also compelling social media platforms and the media to obfuscate the truth and ignore the pleas of desperate citizens.” Sonia flayed the Centre for leaving it to the states to fund the vaccination drive, allowing differential pricing and refusing to enforce compulsory licensing to increase vaccine production. She said the absence of any concrete plan for vaccinating the poor amounted to a failure to fulfil the State’s moral obligation. She demanded an all-party meeting and the resumption of the working of parliamentary standing committees. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi wrote to the Prime Minister to remind him that “the people of India must be your foremost priority” and to urge him to do “everything in your power” to stop the “needless suffering”. “It is also important to understand India’s responsibility in a globalised and interconnected world,” Rahul wrote to Modi. “India is home to one out of every six human beings on the planet. The pandemic has demonstrated that our size, genetic diversity and complexity make India a fertile ground for the virus to rapidly mutate, transforming itself into a more contagious and more dangerous form. The double and triple mutant strains that we are currently grappling with are only the beginning, I fear. “Allowing the uncontrollable spread of this virus in our country will be devastating not only for our people but also for the rest of the world.” Rahul offered suggestions to check the spread: ⚫ Scientifically track the virus and its mutations across the country using genome sequencing as well as its disease patterns. ⚫ Dynamically assess the efficacy of all the vaccines against all the new mutations as they are identified. ⚫ Rapidly vaccinate our entire population. ⚫ Be transparent and keep the rest of the world informed about our findings. “Your government’s lack of a clear and coherent Covid and vaccination strategy, as well as its hubris in declaring premature victory as the virus was exponentially spreading, has placed India in a highly dangerous position: today the disease is growing explosively. It is currently on the verge of overwhelming all of our systems. GOI’s failures have made another devastating national lockdown almost inevitable,” the Congress leader wrote. To prevent a repeat of the “manifold suffering” caused by last year’s lockdown, the government must “provide critical financial and food support to our most vulnerable people” and “be ready with a transportation strategy for those who will require it”, he said. Rahul added: “I am aware that you are concerned about the economic impact of a lockdown. Inside and outside India, the human cost of allowing this virus to continue its march unimpeded will result in many more tragic consequences for our people than any purely economic calculations your advisers are suggesting.” He called for various stakeholders to be taken into confidence “so we can all work together to safeguard India”, assured the Prime Minister of “our support in the fight against this ferocious pandemic” and requested him to consider “these urgent and time-sensitive suggestions”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Election Commission lawyer Mohit D. Ram quits after ‘dissonance’||Advocate Mohit D. Ram, who has been a standing counsel for the Election Commission of India since 2013, has announced he is stepping down as his values are “not in consonance with the current functioning of the ECI”. The letter, addressed to the Election Commission’s director of law, Vijay Kumar Pandey, says: “It was an honour to represent the Election Commission of India (ECI). I had a cherishing milestone of my career, in the journey which began with being part of the office of Standing Counsel of ECI and progressed as one of the panel counsels of ECI (since 2013). “However, I have found that my values are not in consonance with the current functioning of the ECI; and hence I withdraw myself from the responsibilities of its panel counsel before the Supreme Court of India….” Sources said Ram had quit because he was feeling sidelined since 2019. On Thursday, the Supreme Court had rejected an Election Commission appeal seeking a gag on the media from reporting oral observations of judges. The plea was prompted by Madras High Court’s comment that the poll panel should probably be put up for murder charges in view of its failure to curb the “wanton abuse” of Covid protocols during election rallies. Ram was not part of that case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Post-poll violence: Right-wing backlash on Malayalam news channel over Bengal||A Malayalam news channel has come under Right-wing attacks for allegedly ignoring the Bengal violence, with an exasperated newsroom journalist’s sarcastic comments to an apparently pro-BJP caller being recorded and uploaded on social media to discredit the broadcaster. Asianet News, the channel, apologised for the journalist’s “unnecessary and immature remarks” and said action has been taken against her, and the reporter has herself offered a public apology. Some have wondered whether the channel should have apologised while some others have pointed that the regret refers to the tone and a part of the comments of the reporter, not the channel’s decision on how to cover the violence in Bengal. However, Asianet’s Facebook page has been flooded by messages attacking the channel, with some urging people to boycott it and providing technical instructions on how to unsubscribe to it from their bouquet of cable channels. Asianet, owned by BJP Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar, had last year been banned briefly by the Centre over its coverage of mob attacks on the anti-CAA protesters in Delhi. An Asianet source said the phone call was one of many similar calls, which seemed part of a Sangh parivar plot to malign and harass the channel and trap its employees into indiscretion. The 77-second audio clip airs a purported conversation between a woman claiming to be calling from Kottayam and the reporter based at the channel’s Thiruvananthapuram headquarters. “Why aren’t you carrying news reports and videos on Bengal?” the unidentified caller asks. “It’s deliberate since there is only Covid here (in Kerala). Is there any point in covering some Sanghi getting beaten up in Bengal when our own brethren and neighbours are falling dead and there is no space to bury them?” a voice, purportedly of Praveena, replies. The caller asks: “So, aren’t Bengalis Indians?” “No, no, they’re from Pakistan. We have time only to give this news. You watch if you want to,” the reporter purportedly says, hanging up as the caller asks: “Why are you running a news channel?” On Friday, the channel issued a statement on its Facebook page, saying: “We regret our colleague’s response to a call that came to our office the other day in which some unnecessary and immature remarks had crept in. We have taken necessary action against the erring person.” The reporter wrote a Facebook post saying the Asianet office had been receiving “repeated calls” that accused it of failing to adequately report the Bengal violence. “I happened to lose control while responding to repeated calls while engaged in reporting the seriousness of Covid. I didn’t mean to hurt anyone. I express my unconditional apology,” she wrote. A senior journalist with the channel, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph: “Our office numbers are being circulated on WhatsApp groups associated with the Sangh parivar and BJP that are exhorting their supporters to call and harass us.” He said the channel had carried several reports on the Bengal violence. However, on Asianet’s Facebook page, a social media user has commented: “Dislike the (Facebook) page of this filthy channel that doesn’t report the mass killings in Bengal.” Twitter campaigns have started with the hashtags #BanAsianet and #BoycottAsianet. In March 2020, the Union information and broadcasting ministry had banned Asianet News along with another Malayalam channel, Media One, for 48 hours over “biased” reporting of the mob violence against anti-CAA protesters in Delhi. An outcry forced the ministry to lift the bans within hours. Referring to the allegation of concerted Right-wing calls to pressure the channel, senior lawyer and columnist Sebastian Paul said this was “highly condemnable mob behaviour”. “While readers and viewers have every right to approach the editor and express their views, this kind of calculated pressure on newsrooms is detrimental to the freedom of the press,” Paul said. He likened it to the way Right-wing protesters had whipped up frenzy against the Malayalam novel Meesha by S. Hareesh, accusing it of portraying Hindu women in a poor light. The author eventually withdrew the novel from the Mathrubhumi weekly that was serialising it. Later published in a book form, Meesha won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi award for best Malayalam novel in February this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Kin of G.N. Saibaba approach Maharashtra govt for fresh parole||The wife and brother of jailed professor G.N. Saibaba have again approached the Maharashtra government for parole, or at least caregivers to be deployed for the wheelchair-bound man. The 53-year-old former Delhi university professor, who was arrested in 2014, is serving a life sentence in Nagpur prison for links to the banned CPI(Maoist). He is paralysed below his waist due to polio and was admitted to hospital in February after getting infected with Covid-19. In a letter to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, his wife A.S. Vasantha Kumari and brother G. Ramadevudu said that two co-accused caregivers are now reluctant to help him as they were affected by the coronavirus. They said in their letter: “His left hand is not functioning due to traumatic brachial plexopathy and his right hand is also slowly becoming non-functional. It is very difficult for Prof. Saibaba to shift himself from the wheelchair to the bed and back without the assistance of caretakers. “He is also frequently falling unconscious during the daytime as well as night-time. He requires at least two caretakers for his movements on the wheelchair for daily chores such as using toilet, brushing. taking bath, eating food etc.” His parole was rejected twice last year, and his kin said that despite assurances to Bombay High Court by the jail authorities, none have been given to him now. They added: “Tens and hundreds of prisoners are suffering with Covid-19 in the jails of Maharashtra also. In the last year, Maharashtra government released prisoners on parole from the jails. We request your highness to release Prof. G.N. Saibaba who is wheelchair bound and cannot walk with his 90% physical disability at least on parole. “Under this critical situation, We request your highness to look into the matter sympathetically on humanitarian grounds and instruct the authorities concerned to provide at least two caretakers to him in the jail for executing his daily routine works.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||SC warns Centre of 'coercive' methods on retracting 700 metric tonnes of oxygen assurance to Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday told Centre sternly not to compel it to use “coercive” methods or test its patience as it slammed the government for retracting on its Thursday’s solemn assurance to supply Delhi 700 metric tonnes of oxygen. The warning came on a day the top court also upheld as well as “calibrated” an interim order of Karnataka High Court directing the Centre to release 1,200MT of oxygen to the state. “We want 700MT to be supplied to Delhi and we mean business. It has to be supplied and we don’t want to be coercive. Our order will take time to be uploaded by 3pm, but you proceed and arrange the oxygen,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta as soon as the court commenced proceedings. The other judge in the bench Justice M.R. Shah interjected to tell Mehta: “You have to supply 700MT oxygen every day till we further order.” A visibly angry bench made the oral observation after senior advocate Rahul Mehra appearing for Delhi made an urgent mention complaining about the Centre’s failure to supply the requisite oxygen. For the last two days, the bench had passed separate orders directing the Centre to supply 700MT oxygen to Delhi, even while it stayed an earlier Delhi High Court contempt notice for not supplying the same quantity. Rahul Mehra complained that on Friday till 9am, Delhi had received only 86MT of oxygen and another 16MT was in the transit. “We mean business and the 700MT of oxygen has to be supplied to Delhi every day till we modify our order. Please don’t drive us to a situation where we have to pass coercive action against the government,” Justice Chandrachud told Mehta. “Mr Solicitor please note that when we say 700MT has to be supplied to Delhi, it doesn’t mean it’s only for one day to assuage the court that abhi de diya (now we have given for today). It has to be 700MT everyday.” “Yesterday when we saw your affidavit it said 700MT supplied then there were caveats and explanation about containers and tankers. We are not container drivers. We want to make it clear that Delhi must get 700MT every day. Don’t make us pass strict orders,” Justice Chandrachud observed. Justice Shah observed: “We clarified yesterday also clearly that till the further orders you have to supply 700MT. We made it very clear.” The Centre has been taking the stand that Delhi does not require 700MT as the claim of the AAP government according to it was exaggerated. The Centre is also of the view that if 700MT is to be diverted to Delhi alone from the central pool, then other deserving states would also be affected for lack of oxygen.Mehta agreed to comply with the direction. But the day was not smooth sailing for the Centre as the bench also rejected its plea challenging the direction by Karnataka High Court direction to the Centre to ensure 1,200MT of oxygen to the state every as an interim measure. “It is a well calibrated, well considered judicial exercise by the high court. We will not leave the citizens of Karnataka in the lurch,” Justice Chandrachud said while refusing to stay the high court order. Mehta argued that if every high court starts ordering supply of oxygen to their respective states, it will become a problem for the Centre to meet all such requirements. The bench said the high court has furnished adequate reasons for passing the interim order. It however, said the high court direction will not preclude any mutual resolution of the issue between the Centre and the state on supply of oxygen. The bench was of the view that the high court had passed the order following the death of about 22 persons due to alleged lack of oxygen supply in Chamrajnagar district. An exasperated Mehta did not give up and instead said: “Then my Lords we are ready to give the entire oxygen stock with us to the high courts. Let the high courts’ distribute it!”. However, Justice Chandrachud shot back saying: “Mr Solicitor, we cannot say that the high courts will simply shut their eyes.” Later the bench passed the following written order: “…The allocation for the State of Karnataka stood at 802MT prior to 30 April 2021 and has been increased to 856MT from 1 May 2021 and 965MT from 5 May 2021. The minimum requirement of the State, as projected by the State Government on 5 May 2021, was 1,162MT. “The High Court has furnished adequate reasons for issuing a calibrated ad-interim direction. The direction of the High Court is evidently an ad-interim direction, subject to such calibration as would be necessitated after the State of Karnataka and the Union Government have mutually attempted to resolve the issue. The order of the High Court does not preclude a mutual resolution by the two governments, since the proceedings are still pending. “The order of the High Court is based on the need to maintain at least a minimum requirement as projected by the State Government until a decision on the representation is taken and the High Court is apprised. Hence, without enquiring into the wider issues sought to be raised at this stage (and keeping them open) there is no reason to entertain the Special Leave Petition. The Special Leave Petition is disposed of.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states to prioritise second vaccine doses||The Union health ministry on Friday said states should prioritise second Covid-19 vaccine doses over first doses in a 70:30 ratio, a call that experts say affirms India’s vaccine shortages that health minister Harsh Vardhan had denied last month. “Our vaccination policy probably represents the most miserable failure among our responses to the pandemic,” a senior member of the national task force on Covid-19 told The Telegraph. “We wasted time — from October to at least January, we didn’t anticipate the need for ramped up production.” States should use the vaccines they are receiving from the Centre in a ratio where 70 per cent are reserved for second doses and 30 per cent for first doses, a senior health official said, iterating the ministry’s earlier call for prioritising beneficiaries of second doses. Only about 32.9 million people — about 3.6 per cent of an estimated beneficiary population of 900 million — have so far received the two doses required for full protection. At many sites across India, beneficiaries are awaiting slots for their doses. “We request states and Union Territories to prioritise the beneficiaries of second doses… utilise supplies of vaccines through the government of India channel in a 70:30 ratio for the second dose and first dose respectively,” said Arti Ahuja, additional secretary in the health ministry. The call comes amid a decline in the number of daily doses administered — from 3.5 million on April 10 to 3 million on April 20 to 2.7 million on April 30. The daily doses have ranged from 1.15 million to 2.2 million since May 1 when the Centre, responding to demands from some states and medical experts, expanded the vaccination campaign to allow states and private hospitals to offer vaccines to all adults 18 years or older. The campaign’s earlier phase — which senior health officials have described as driven by scientific evidence — had started on January 16, first prioritising healthcare workers, then frontline workers and then adding all people aged 45 years or older. The Centre’s decision to allow states to vaccinate all adults overnight more than doubled the pool of potential beneficiaries to about 900 million without immediate provisions for the extra vaccines that such a campaign would demand. Health minister Vardhan had on April 7 described complaints of vaccine shortages by several states as “utterly baseless” and had said some states were trying to “distract attention from their failures and spread panic among the people”. Health experts and vaccine industry executives had predicted that the shortages that some states had experienced under the 45 years-plus phase of the campaign would only intensify once vaccination had been opened to all adults. Under the current policy, the Centre procures 50 per cent of all vaccine doses and distributes them to all states for use only in people 45 years or older, while states and private hospitals can buy the balance or import foreign vaccines and vaccinate all adults. India currently produces between 80 and 90 million vaccine doses per month. One vaccine industry executive said the supplies would continue to increase month by month, but said it was hard to predict when vaccines would become available on demand. Although India has invited foreign vaccine makers such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, experts tracking global vaccine supplies say it might be weeks to months before they can supply large amounts to India. The Gujarat government on Friday announced that carrying a Covid-19 positive report will not be necessary for admission of patients to hospitals in the state. The state health and family welfare department issued a circular, in which it asked all the hospitals to “give treatment” to all those “suspected patients having symptoms” of coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Pramila Jayapal emerges as a powerful voice for Indian needs during the pandemic at Capitol Hill||Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, whom external affairs minister S. Jaishankar had boycotted in December 2019 for her criticism of India’s Kashmir policy, has emerged as a powerful voice for Indian needs during the second wave of the pandemic at Capitol Hill. According to a PTI report from Washington, Jayapal, who recently returned to the US from India where her parents had tested Covid-positive, said on Thursday: “India needs our help — and it is our moral responsibility to rise to the challenge at the local, federal and international level because to defeat a global pandemic, we need a global response.” Jayapal’s steadfast support was acknowledged by none other than India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. In a tweet on Thursday, he said: “In our conversation w/Congresswoman @RepJayapal, Chair of the Progressive Caucus, Amb. Mfeketo @RSAinDC & I discussed important issues relating to global public health incl. the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver. We thanked the Congresswoman for her steadfast support for the TRIPS waiver proposal.” Nomaindiya Cathleen Mfeketo is South Africa’s ambassador to the US. Sandhu was referring to the Joe Biden administration’s “support for waiving intellectual property protections for Covid-19 vaccines”, which was announced by US trade representative Katherine Tai on Wednesday. Last year, India and South Africa had submitted a proposal to the TRIPS Council at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) for waiver of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement to facilitate affordable access to diagnosis, vaccines and therapeutics being developed to fight Covid-19. Around 60 developing countries had supported this proposal. Jayapal has for weeks now been working with the Indian diaspora to mount pressure on the Biden administration to first, belatedly, offer assistance to India, release unused vaccines from the US stockpile for despatch to India, and also support the resolution at the WTO to temporarily waive the patent protections that the powerful pharma lobby was keen on having. The waiver call had the support of 100 legislators who had recently written to Biden in this regard. In December 2019, during a visit to Washington, Jaishankar had cancelled a meeting with a Congressional delegation after it refused to exclude Jayapal from the interaction, drawing a sharp response not only from her but also fellow Democrat Kamala Harris who less than a year later was elected Vice-President of the US. Even back then, Jaishankar’s surprise move — particularly since he is a career diplomat — had proved to be counter-productive as it drew more sponsors for a bipartisan resolution Jayapal had moved in the House of Representatives criticising the Kashmir clampdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh teachers on Covid duty target BJP ‘chowkidars’ ||Schoolteachers in Uttar Pradesh have been drafted into a door-to-door Covid awareness-cum-survey programme, exposing them to the coronavirus, just when hundreds of teachers have died of the infection after being put on panchayat poll duty. The aggrieved teachers, deployed in the May 5-9 programme, are asking why they must be the sacrificial lambs every time and why the government can’t instead enlist BJP workers who style themselves “chowkidars (watchmen)” like their supreme leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Four lakh teachers, Asha workers (part-time rural health workers) and Anganwadi (rural childcare and maternity care) workers will form 2 lakh teams of 2 each to cover the state’s population of over 20 crore. Each team will cover an area of about 1,000 people. “Two years ago, all BJP workers claimed they were chowkidars (in response to a call from Modi). The BJP says it’s the largest party in the world. Why are these party workers not taking up this social work?” Tribhuvan Singh, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Siksha Mitra Sangha, an association of contract teachers, said. “The government should depute them instead of exposing low-level employees to the virus.” Teachers’ bodies say the lack of PPE kits and mismanagement, which forced many teachers to travel to the polling centres crammed in lorries, were factors behind the widespread Covid infections and deaths among them during and after the April 15-29 rural polls and May 3-5 counting.Anant Rai, a regular teacher at a primary school at Bhelupur in Varanasi district, was sent on poll assignment twice during the panchayat elections. He died of Covid at the Homi Jehangir Bhabha Cancer Institute, Lahartara, Varanasi, on April 24. Rai was the sole breadwinner for his wife and 10-year-old son. “As a government servant, anybody in his place would have discharged the duty assigned to him. That is fine. But if Anantji was given a PPE kit like those the doctors wear, the possibility of infection would have reduced,” said his brother-in-law Nitin Rai. “I urge the government to provide proper PPE kits from head to toe to all those being sent on (the current campaign).”During the panchayat elections, as in the Assembly elections in five states, polling officials were given masks and gloves but no PPE kits. As for the May 5-9 campaign teams, an order issued by additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prashad gives them these safety tips: wear masks all the time and don’t enter houses or accept offers of tea or snacks from residents. Shashank Pandey, joint secretary of the Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh, said a district-wise count of the teachers who had died of Covid after joining poll duty was on. He said 155 regular teachers had died in just 7 districts — among the state’s 75 districts — where the count had been completed. Tribhuvan said 136 contract teachers had died state-wide after joining poll duty. News reports said the Uttar Pradesh Primary Shikshak Sangh had cited a state-wide death toll of 700 primary school teachers who had been enlisted as panchayat poll officials. Pandey said 18 regular teachers had died of Covid in Varanasi district alone during or after election duty. Some 48 had died in Lakhimpur Kheri, 40 in Lalitpur, 13 each in Sant Ravidas Nagar, Bhadohi and Aligarh, and 10 in Sonbhadra. The lists do not include contract teachers. “The awareness campaign should have been held before the Covid second wave,” Pandey said. Tribhuvan said the district education departments in many districts had published official lists of the teachers killed by the coronavirus after joining the poll shift. According to the official list, 26 teachers died in Ghazipur, 14 in Allahabad, 13 in Sidharthnagar and 16 in Bhadohi. An official assigned as sector magistrate in Sonbhadra to supervise the April 29 vote said: “There was no proper transport (not enough buses and minibuses). Many schoolteachers who were presiding officers or polling officers had to travel on trucks sitting next to each other.” Tribhuvan said the Election Commission had laid down that those who died of Covid during or after election duty would be eligible for compensation. He demanded the government not insist on RT-PCR test reports or death certificates to establish Covid. “Many teachers could not do RT-PCR. They died at their homes. All of them (their families) should get compensation,” he said. Veena Gupta, president of the state’s Anganwadi Karamchari Union, urged the government to issue guidelines on compensation if any of those involved in the programme died of Covid. “We have demanded that proper safety gear be provided. That is not happening. We have demanded a Rs 10,000 epidemic allowance and a Rs 10 lakh compensation if anyone dies. Nobody should be forced to do this duty,” Gupta said. Additional chief secretary Prashad’s order says the goal of the campaign is “awareness, identification of Covid patients and distribution of medicine”. The team members will call the residents of houses outside, ask questions and educate them about Covid. They will prepare lists of people who have Covid symptoms and ask them to visit the nearest health facility. They will distribute medicines to those with symptoms who are unable to go to health centres. The teams will also inform people about the vaccination programme for those above 18. An email sent to Prashad asking about the compensation amount and the timing of the awareness campaign brought no response. Modi, who had styled himself a chowkidar to emphasise his anti-corruption plank in the 2014 election campaign, had started a “Main Bhi Chowkidar (I too am a watchman)” campaign for his supporters in March 2019 after facing the Congress slogan of “Chowkidar chor hai (The watchman is a thief)” over the Rafale deal. This had prompted hundreds of BJP members, from ministers to workers, to prefix “chowkidar” to their social media handles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Lesson is BJP can be defeated: Left leader Binoy Viswam||The Left may have witnessed mixed fortunes in the March-April Assembly elections but for CPI national council secretary and Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam, the biggest lesson of the May 2 results is that “the BJP can be defeated”. “The people are no longer ready to succumb to the ill-motivated designs of the BJP,” Viswam told The Telegraph. The Left Democratic Front made history in Kerala by becoming the first formation to retain power in 44 years, while in Bengal the Left Front scored a duck for the first time ever. “The most vital difference is that in Kerala, the fight was led by the Left, and it could tell people that it was the most dependable alternative to the Right-wing forces,” Viswam said. He said that while the LDF had stood with the people in Kerala during crises such as the 2018 and 2019 floods and the current epidemic, the Left’s “connect” with the people had got “disrupted” in Bengal. “In Bengal the Left has a glorious tradition of pro-people policies. At some point, because of several factors, their connect with the people got disrupted,” Viswam said. But he was optimistic about the future: “The Left has the ideological preparedness to look deep into its shortcomings. Rectification measures should be adopted accordingly.” Viswam was reluctant to make an “open comment” about whether the Left had erred in Bengal by deciding to fight Trinamul in alliance with the Congress and Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s ISF. In Nandigram, where Mamata Banerjee has been declared defeated by less than 2,000 votes in a contested result, Meenakshi Mukherjee of the CPM polled over 6,000 votes. “Both the CPI and the CPM believe in Left unity. It’s the pivot around which the Left and democratic alternative is to be built up.... So, I don’t want to make an open comment on the CPM leadership and their political priorities,” Viswam said. “It was a joint strategy adopted by the Left Front as a whole, which was put to the test in the 2021 election. Now, the Left Front and its constituent parties are duty bound to analyse the results and draw lessons, which will be done independently and collectively.” But the crucial question for Viswam is identifying the main enemy. “While undertaking this task, a crucial question emerges: who is the main enemy? At such a crucial point when we stand at a political crossroads, (the Left has to decide) whether it is tactically and strategically correct to identify two main enemies. The experience of the world communist movement too may help find the answer,” he said. Viswam believes that the word “blunder” that many are using to describe the Bengal Left’s stand in this election — which left it out of the largest mass mobilisation against communalism in recent memory in Bengal — is too “harsh”. “(Expressions like) ‘blunder’ or ‘historical blunder’ may be too harsh to describe the process of such a political dialogue. Nobody, no political party, would willingly commit blunders. Such mistakes happen out of mistaken calculations. Once the mistake is understood, any responsible political party would take its own rectification measures,” he said. “The support base of the Left expects the Left parties to be bold enough in this process. The Left parties have the ideological vision and organisational strength to fulfil the task. For the toiling masses of the country, the Left is the only hope. Keeping this factor in mind, communist parties should go forward with historical optimism.” In Kerala, the Left gained from its management of the Nipah virus outbreak, the repeated floods and Covid, Viswam said. “In all these crises the people could see the Left as a source of hope. While many were allowed to starve in the rest of the country, nobody went hungry in Kerala where everyone, including migrant labourers, was assured food and shelter as basic rights,” he said. “Social welfare pensions and food kits reached the doorstep of every household. Along with the emphasis on social justice and protection, the development aspects of the state were properly taken care of. The people could see from their experience that the Left was different and that its socio-economic agenda was people-oriented and not profit-oriented.” Viswam added: “The LDF government in Kerala was able to answer the basic question posed by the LPG (liberalisation, privatisation, globalisation) era — people or profit. The Left has no doubt that the people are the indisputable priority.” Viswam was not ready to compare the Left’s styles of functioning in Bengal and Kerala. “I’m not equipped to make any comments on the style of functioning of the Left Front in Bengal. The very concept of a united front envisages the presence of varying approaches and ideas. A united front should provide the space for those ideas to be communicated between each other,” he said. “The strength of the LDF in Kerala is that the space for such communication and debates is assured. These discussions are meant to strengthen the front, not to weaken it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Govt funds Gayatri Mantra trial for patients||India’s science and technology ministry has funded a clinical trial to find out if the Gayatri Mantra, a chant from the Rig Veda, can help hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, said they have finished the enrolment of 20 patients and are currently conducting statistical analysis to assess the outcomes. In the trial, Ruchi Dua, a pulmonary medicine specialist at the AIIMS, Rishikesh, and her colleagues asked 10 hospitalised patients to combine Gayatri Mantra with pranayama, a set of yogic breathing exercises, and compared their outcomes with 10 other hospitalised patients who received standard care. The doctors have described their trial as a study to see the effect of Gayatri Mantra and pranayama on markers of inflammation in hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Multiple studies have shown that patients who develop moderate or severe Covid-19 can show high levels of inflammation. “Breathing exercises are already prescribed to patients recovering from Covid-19,” Dua told The Telegraph. “We thought we would investigate the effect of both Gayatri Mantra and pranayama on hospitalised patients. Benefits may emerge through psychological effects.” The Union science and technology department supported the study with a grant of Rs 3 lakh. Researchers not associated with the study said they’re not surprised at the department’s decision to support the project given what some scientists view as its tilt towards funding projects relating to ancient Indian traditions. The science and technology department had last year offered to fund research projects that seek to pinpoint ingredients in dung, milk and urine of “indigenous cows” for use in medicinal, nutritional, and household products. A medical researcher familiar with clinical trial protocols said it was unclear how such a study could yield any useful information about how either Gayatri Mantra or breathing exercises could influence the outcome of Covid-19 patients. The vast majority of Covid-19 patients recover after the standard care that they receive in hospitals. With such a small number of only 10 participants in each group, a researcher said, there would be a question mark on the statistical validity of whatever outcomes the study has measured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir govt makes it difficult for charities to procure oxygen||The Jammu and Kashmir government has made it difficult for charities to procure oxygen for patients in home isolation, triggering an outcry at the throttling of what has been a lifeline for most of the Valley’s Covid patients. Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad on Thursday directed oxygen manufacturers in the city to continue supplies only to designated hospitals or clinics and “stop supply to any private society/NGO with immediate effect”. The move, which handicaps the charities that have been the bulwark of the Valley’s fight against Covid, reflects the government’s perennial distrust of NGOs and suspicion of any kind of activism, even if its objective is to save lives. The NGOs can now procure oxygen only after securing the deputy commissioner’s approval, a process that the charities say entails lengthy paperwork and diversion of their resources and energy. The government claims its move is aimed at checking “blackmarketeering” of medical oxygen. The order created instant panic with some NGOs indicating they were stopping the distribution of oxygen cylinders. Outrage followed. “Don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Stopping the hoarding/black marketing of oxygen cylinders is a laudable goal. Preventing NGOs or making it tougher for them to help people get cylinders is dangerous. NGOs were working when the government was still in deep slumber,” former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted. The charities say they provide 4,000 to 5,000 oxygen concentrators and cylinders in Srinagar alone, helping 3,000 to 4,000 patients at home. Hospital sources said that hardly any oxygen-supported bed was vacant. Official figures show the city has 940 isolation beds, most of them occupied. In addition, government hospitals have 82 ICU beds. People in the Valley have always contributed generously to charities to take care of the tens of thousands of people hit by repeated lockdowns or unrests. But with the authorities cracking down on political activism since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in 2019, the charities too have faced tougher regulations — even raids by government agencies — apparently because they too are seen as some sort of a threat. “Srinagar’s population is five per cent of Delhi’s and we still get 1,200 to 1,300 cases a day here, which is more than five per cent of Delhi’s cases,” the head of a volunteer group said. “If you don’t have a Delhi-like situation here, it’s because of the charities. If we stop working, hospitals will be flooded with patients and I fear there could be 100 to 200 deaths (in Kashmir) every day.” On Thursday, the Valley clocked 3,241 cases, including 1,070 in Srinagar. There were 18 deaths. Under pressure, the government on Friday said the order sought to provide fair and equal access to the “most needy patients” and that it was streamlining the process. “Scuttlebutt has it as if somebody is being prevented. Not at all. In fact, proper mechanism in place will ensure regular supply in a smooth manner,” deputy commissioner Asad tweeted. Leading NGOs Athrout, the Social Reform Organisation (SRO), Help Poor and Hope Trust on Friday met Asad, who then reportedly announced a partial reprieve. “The process (stipulated in Thursday’s order) was cumbersome. We had to provide beneficiary details and stock in hand (daily)…. Now we have been told to furnish the details weekly,” Afaaq Sayeed, who is with SRO Kashmir, told The Telegraph. A member of another charity, who requested anonymity, said the government was reluctant to revoke the order. “We urged them to revoke the order but they said it had come from the top and could not be revoked. They said they wanted to check the pilferage. We told them that if there was any pilferage, it was at the industry level and not on our level,” he said. “For now, they have provided us temporary relief but it still entails a lot of paperwork.” The volunteer said the order had already created panic. “We had a doctor, who was a frontline warrior, calling us. His entire family was Covid-positive and he was begging for supplies,” he said. SRO volunteer Sayeed said the charities’ work helped the government. “The kind of work we manage, the government might have to create four to five departments to do that,” he said. “We get 250-plus calls every day to our helpline and many more to our individual numbers. We had suspended our helpline following the order but it has been reactivated now.” Apart from providing oxygen cylinders, volunteer group Athrout has set up a 200-bed “Oxygen Sarai (Inn)” with around 75 concentrators and two dozen high-flow cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Stalin advances Rs 4,000 cash relief for every household ||M.K. Stalin, who took charge as Tamil Nadu chief minister on Friday, approved a Rs 4,000 cash relief for every household with a ration card to soften the income losses caused by the pandemic and extended the state health insurance scheme to cover Covid treatment costs in private hospitals. Arriving at the secretariat here after governor Banwarilal Purohit swore in the new DMK ministry headed by the chief minister and his council of 33 ministers at the Raj Bhavan, Stalin signed orders implementing the top-priority pre-poll promises of the DMK. During the campaign, Stalin had said the 2.07 crore households that come under the public distribution system would each get a cash relief of Rs 4,000 from June 3, his late father K. Karunanidhi’s birthday. However, with the pandemic raging, the new chief minister directed that Rs 2,000 be paid to each family immediately as first instalment. Slashing price of milk sold by the State Apex Milk Cooperative — Aavin — by Rs 3 a litre, allowing free travel for all women and girl students in government buses in urban areas, and setting up a department to redress public grievances in every constituency were the other steps Stalin took on Friday. As Stalin took oath at the Raj Bhavan earlier in the day, his wife, Durga Stalin, covered her face, overwhelmed with tears of joy. Stalin’s new council of ministers is a mix of experienced hands like veterans Duraimurugan and K.N. Nehru, and young faces, including three Dalits. His new finance minister, Dr Pazhanivel Thyagarajan, is from an illustrious political family in Madurai and holds an MBA degree in finance from the Sloan School of Management, MIT, and a PhD from the State University of New York, and had been an investment banker and teacher in the US. The DMK cabinet also has two members each from the Muslim and Christian communities — Ginjee K.S. Masthan, S.M. Nazer, Gita Jeevan and T. Mano Thangaraj — to send a reassuring message to the religious minorities. Re-elected to the Assembly from the Kolathur constituency in Chennai for the third time, Stalin, born on March 1, 1953, cut his teeth in Dravidian politics when he was just 13 in 1966. He had then launched the Gopalapuram Youth DMK, organising debates on social issues and recording speeches of top DMK leaders. Karunanidhi had initially thought of naming his third son, born of his second marriage to Dayalu Ammal, as Ayya Durai to honour two great leaders of the Dravidian Movement — Periyar and Annadurai. But when Soviet Union leader Joseph Stalin died on March 5, 1953, just four days after Karunanidhi’s third son was born, addressing a condolence meeting in Chennai he named the baby after the Russian. A year’s rigorous detention under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act during the Emergency (1975-76) threw Stalin into the turmoil of politics. After passing out of Madras Christian College High School, Stalin enrolled for BA in history at Presidency College in Chennai. He wrote his final exam in the presence of a police escort during the Emergency. His political journey has been a “fire-and-ice process”, Stalin would recall later in a speech. His name was his undoing as the Church Park Convent school agreed to give him a seat if his parents agreed to eschew the Russian “Stalin” from his name. But a dogged Karunanidhi preferred to change the school, not his son’s name. Stalin was first inducted into the DMK general council in 1973. In the mid-1980s, Stalin took over as the state secretary of the DMK’s youth wing and won his maiden election to the Assembly from the Thousand Lights constituency in 1989. He became the first directly elected mayor of Chennai in 1996. As the years passed, it became increasingly clear that the DMK’s next generation political leadership had begun to revolve around “Thalapathi (commander) Stalin”, notwithstanding the rivalry with his Madurai-based elder brother M.K. Azhagiri. The siblings’ relations came a full circle when Azhagiri wished Stalin on his electoral success on Thursday. Azhagiri’s elder son Durai Dayanidhi was among those present at the swearing-in on Friday. Stalin had been made deputy chief minister in May 2009. In January 2017, Stalin was elevated as the DMK’s working president when party patriarch Karunanidhi withdrew from active politics. He was unanimously elected DMK president at its general council on August 28, 2018, after Karunanidhi’s death on August 7 that year. Since then, Stalin has been leading the DMK’s poll campaigns — first in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when he proposed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for the Prime Minister’s post, and in the recent Assembly polls. In neighbouring Puducherry, All India N.R. Congress leader N. Rangasamy was sworn in as chief minister by Lt Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday afternoon, but no other minister took oath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Covaxin  to be produced  in Odisha from June 2022||A vaccine production unit of Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL) that produces covaxin will become operational in Odisha by June 2022. Required statutory clearances and permissions have been granted for setting up the unit and production of vaccines including covaxin is expected to begin by June next year, said Odisha government officials. This news comes at a time when the state is struggling hard to arrange Covid-19 vaccines for its people. The Bharat Biotech unit is coming up at Andharua, on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. It will produce ten types of vaccines including malaria, Covid vaccine, severe rotavirus diarrhea, Japanese encephalitis, rabies, pandemic influenza and drug resistant staphylococcus aureus. The BILL will act as the anchor vaccine unit and encourage other startups in this field. “The government has made provisions for extending different incentives to biotech incubation and start-ups in the shape of the land allotment, exemption of stamp duty, land conversion, training subsidy, capital investment subsidy, interest subsidy etc. under Odisha Biotechnology Policy of 2018. “The extension of subsidies needs to be managedprofessionally for optimising the outcomes,” secretary, science and technology Manoj Mishra said, adding that state government has also decided to set up a professional directorate of bio-technology for having a focused and fast approach towards incubation and setting up new industries in the vaccine sector. Even chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra reviewed the progress of the work on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has urged the Centre to exempt GST towards purchase of Covid vaccine and provide financial assistance to the state from the cess and surcharges collected by the Centre. “The states have been asked to purchase vaccines out of their own resources to cover the 18-45 years age group of the population. These purchases attract the Goods and Service Taxes (GST) making the vaccines costly for the states. Hence GST needs to be exempted completely. It will reduce the cost for the states and facilitate our drive towards universal vaccination,” Naveen said in a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday evening. Naveen also cited the need to share the cess collected from the petrol, diesel and liquor and other products with the state government at this critical juncture. “This will strengthen our fight against the pandemic including the provision of vaccinations, free treatment, undertaking preventive measures and so on,” the chief minister said. While it’s fighting to inoculate all its people, the state on Friday recorded its highest ever spike in daily corona cases with 12,238 new infections. It also reported the death of another 19 persons. The total number of Covid cases in the state has touched 5,12,400. The number of Covid death cases has gone upto 2140 with another 19 people succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. In order to break the chain of corona virus the state has intensified its vaccination programme. But it all depends on the availability of the vaccines. “We are doing well in the field of administration of COVID vaccines to the people. Our wastage of doses has a negative wastage of -2.2 per cent. We have vaccinated more persons against the corona virus compared to the number of doses allocated by the Centre. We have used the doses prudently and efficiently. We have developed a good supply cold chain,” additional chief secretary in charge of health and family welfare P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
