09-05-2021||India||Out of jail, Lalu holds first ‘virtual’ meet with party workers||Rashtriya Janata Dal founding president Lalu Prasad, who is out on bail after spending more than three years behind bars, on Sunday held a much-awaited “virtual interaction” with workers of his party back home in Bihar. Prasad, who recently walked out of a jail in Ranchi after the Jharkhand High Court granted him bails in all the fodder scam cases wherein he has been awarded punishments, spoke from New Delhi. The septuagenarian, who suffers from multiple ailments including diabetes, cardiac and renal problems, has been convalescing at his residence in the national capital upon release. His younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, who is at their Delhi home to look after the ailing father, also spoke on the occasion. Yadav, who delivered the introductory speech, said that his father was “unwell, his oxygen levels hovering around 85, a reason why Lalu ji will not speak much”. It was not clear whether Prasad’s oxygen levels were down because of some other problem or he had been infected by Covid-19. Nonetheless, a wave of dejection swept over the party rank and file who were eagerly looking forward to hearing from their leader, famous for his flamboyant wisecracks and earthy sense of humour. Prasad told the listeners party MLAs and those who had contested the assembly elections on RJD tickets but lost to rise to the occasion when the pandemic “has reached our farthest villages”. The listeners, who had been instructed to attend the “virtual interaction” from their respective constituencies via video conferencing, were asked to set up “RJD Covid care centres” in their areas of influence. They were also urged to “expose and thwart” any instances of black marketing of oxygen cylinders and other important medicines, and help needy patients with food and other logistics like ambulances. Prasad’s maverick elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, who dotes on his father but has been overshadowed by his suave and shrewd younger sibling, also spoke on the occasion. He proposed that in all the 243 assembly segments of the state, the party should run “Lalu Rasoi” (Lalu community kitchens) where food would be prepared and distributed free of cost. The proposal, predictably met with applause, though it was not yet clear whether it was going to lead to fruition. Prasad, who was the chief minister of undivided Bihar for seven straight years, first got convicted in a fodder scam case in 2013, which led to his disqualification from contesting elections. He was, however, soon out on jail and took part in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in which his party came out with an unimpressive performance in the face of the “Modi wave”. A year later, though, he emerged as the star attraction in the assembly polls which his party fought in alliance with arch rival and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s JD(U). Though out of race himself, Prasad ensured through his electrifying campaign a spectacular comeback for the RJD that had been drubbed by the NDA in the 2010 assembly polls, and both his sons made successful debuts, with Tejashwi becoming the deputy CM and Tej Pratap getting a cabinet berth. Although out of power now, the RJD once again emerged as the single largest party in the assembly elections held last year, which also saw the 32-year-old Tejashwi steering the party to an impressive performance despite the absence of his charismatic father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
09-05-2021||India||Centre should consider imposing a nationwide lockdown: Gehlot||The Centre should consider imposing a nationwide lockdown in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is more unpredictable and deadly, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday. Gehlot was addressing a video conference after he and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan virtually laid foundation stones for medical colleges in the state's Chittorgarh and Sriganganagar districts. Several states have imposed lockdowns and restrictions at their level to break the Covid-19 transmission chain, but there is a lack of intra-state coordination, the chief minister said. In such a situation, the Centre should consider imposing a lockdown again with uniformity across the country after taking into consideration the experiences of the previous nationwide lockdown last year, Gehlot said. The Rajasthan government has announced a strict lockdown in the state from May 10 to 24 under which intra-state movement has also been disallowed. Delhi and states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Karnataka have also imposed strict restrictions and lockdowns to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is unpredictable and more deadly, and has taken a terrible form, Gehlot said, adding that vaccination should be given top priority. During the event, he also urged the Union health minister to increase the number of oxygen plants being installed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in the state, to provide additional tankers for oxygen transportation and to allocate oxygen to Rajasthan from nearby states instead of the eastern states of the country. The chief minister said that the Centre, states and people will have to fight together against the pandemic and then only the country can tide over it. Union Minister Vardhan said that India is going through a challenging time and the Centre is making all efforts to ensure availability of resources to all states. He also suggested to state governments that those due for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine should be equally prioritised. Vardhan said that the number of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has increased to 22 and it is planned to establish medical colleges in 110 districts. In this order, out of 75 medical colleges approved in the third phase, the maximum 15 are in Rajasthan. The medical colleges in Chittorgarh and Sriganganagar are being constructed at a cost of Rs 325 crore each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
09-05-2021||India||Team of 7 visited UP crematoriums to steal clothes from the dead||Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday arrested seven people, for allegedly stealing clothes from crematoria and graveyards and selling them. According to Circle Officer of Baraut Alok Singh on Sunday said a local cloth merchant and his aides used to steal clothes of the dead from crematoria and graveyards and resell these in the market after putting a company trademark. Singh said, “The accused have been indulging in this act for the past 10 years and the cloth merchant used to give Rs 300 daily to his aides for the act.” The arrested people have been identified as cloth merchant Praveen Jain, his son Ashish Jain, nephew Rishabh Jain and aides Raju Sharma, Shravan Sharma, Bablu Kashyap and Shahrukh Khan. “Seven people have been arrested. During interrogation it was revealed that they used to steal bedsheets, sarees, clothes of the dead. Among the items recovered are: 520 bedsheets, 127 kurtas, 52 white sarees 140 shirts, 34 dhotis and 112 trademark stickers along with other articles of clothing,” said the officer to reporters. Circle Officer Alok Singh told a posse of reporters. “Of the seven arrested three are from the same family. These people have been stealing for last 10 years. Since, they have been arrested during coronavirus crisis, other than stealing they will also be charged under the Epidemic Act,” said the circle officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
09-05-2021||India||West Bengal woman allegedly raped by 2 men she accompanied to Tikri border||The Haryana Police is probing an allegation that a woman from West Bengal, who died after showing Covid-like symptoms, at a hospital here had been raped by two men she had accompanied to a farmers’ protest site at the Tikri border. Police on Sunday formed a special investigation team after the woman’s father alleged she was raped when she had gone to the border point with some members of an outfit which is supporting the protest against the Centre's new farm laws. In a complaint to police on Saturday, the father said on April 10, she travelled from Bengal to Tikri, which is on the Haryana-Delhi border, officials said. On the intervening night of April 25 and 26, the 25-year-old woman was admitted to a hospital in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district after she developed Covid-like symptoms, they said. “She passed away on April 30,” Bahadurgarh Station House Officer (SHO) Inspector Vijay Kumar said over phone. Following the complaint of the woman’s father, the Haryana Police has registered a rape case against the two persons. The special investigation team (SIT) is being headed by a deputy superintendent-rank official from Bahadurgarh and it will further probe the entire incident, Kumar said. “As per the complaint given by her father on Saturday, on April 10, his daughter travelled from West Bengal to Tikri border with some people, who are part of an outfit supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation, and reached a day later at the venue of the stir,” the SHO said. Police are yet to release the name of the outfit. Kumar said according to the complainant, when she reached Tikri, she was allegedly sexually assaulted by two persons who were part of the outfit supporting the ongoing stir. The woman had told her father about the incident and shared details of it with him over phone, he said. “Days after the alleged incident, the woman fell ill and on April 25-26, she was admitted to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh with Covid-like symptoms,” Kumar said. “She died during treatment. The hospital authorities have told us they treated her as a Covid-19 patient. We have applied for documents, which are awaited and only after we get them can we confirm if her death was Covid-related,” he said. Several farmers are protesting against the farm laws at border points of Delhi, including Tikri and Singhu, since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
09-05-2021||India||Country needs breath, not PM’s residence, says Rahul Gandhi||Hitting out at the Centre for continuing the construction work for the Central Vista redevelopment project amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the country needs breath and not the prime minister's residence. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista ‑ the power corridor of the country ‑ envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat, the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The government has brought the construction work for the ambitious project under the ambit of “essential services” to ensure smooth movement of labourers during the ongoing lockdown in Delhi. “The country needs breath, not the prime minister's residence,” Gandhi said in a tweet, sharing pictures of people standing in a queue for refilling oxygen cylinders and the construction work for the Central Vista project on Rajpath. Amid rising Covid-19 cases, several states have been facing a crippling shortage of oxygen, leaving hospitals and family members of patients scrambling to ensure a steady supply. Gandhi and his Congress party have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista project and give priority to improving the country’s medical infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic to save people’s lives. The opposition party has also criticised the Centre for according the construction work for the Central Vista project the “essential services” tag and accused the government of having its priorities wrong. In another tweet, Gandhi said the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas. “After cities, now villages are also dependent on God,” the former Congress president tweeted in Hindi. On Sunday, India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414 while 4,092 more fatalities took the death toll to 2,42,362, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
09-05-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman tweets on Covid tax issue raised by Mamata||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said GST exemption to domestic supplies and commercial import of Covid drugs, vaccines and oxygen concentrators would make these items costlier for consumers as manufacturers would not be able to offset the taxes paid on inputs. Currently, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent Goods and Services Tax (GST), while it is 12 per cent in case of Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators. "If full exemption from GST is given, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would pass them on to the end consumer/citizen by increasing the price. A 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence exemption to vaccines from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer," Sitharaman tweeted. She further said that if Integrated GST (IGST) Rs 100 is collected on an item, Rs 50 accrues to the Centre and the States each as Central GST and State GST respectively. Further 41 per cent of the CGST revenue is devoted to States. So out of a collection of Rs 100, as much as Rs 70.50 is the share of the states. From the GST collected on vaccines, half is earned by the Centre and the other half by the States. Further, 41 per cent of Centre's collections also get devolved to the States. So states end up receiving almost 70 per cent of the total revenue collected from vaccines. "In fact, a nominal 5 per cent GST is in the interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccines and in the interest of the citizens," Sitharaman said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee earlier in the day wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking exemption from GST and customs duty any donations of oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks and Covid related drugs from organisations or agencies. The Finance Minister tweeted her response to the Chief Minister's letter, saying these items are already exempted from customs duty and health cess. Besides, Integrated GST (IGST) is also exempted on all Covid relief material imported by the Indian Red Cross for free distribution in the country. Also IGST exemption has been given in case of goods imported free of cost for free distribution in the country by any entity, state government, relief agency or autonomous body on the basis of a certificate issued by a state government. "In order to augment the availability of these items, the government has also provided full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess to their commercial imports," Sitharaman said. The government has already exempted from customs duty import of a host of Covid-related relief materials, including Remdesivir injection and its APIs, Inflammatory diagnostic (markers) kits, medical grade oxygen, oxygen therapy related equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cryogenic transport tanks, etc, and Covid vaccines. Besides, effective May 3, the government exempted IGST on import of Covid-relief material received as donation for free distribution in the country, a move which helped speed up customs clearances of such imports. This exemption would be subject to nodal authorities, appointed by the state governments, authorising any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such relief material. The said goods can be imported free of cost by a state government or any entity/ relief agency/ statutory body, authorized in this regard for free distribution anywhere in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||TMC writes to RS Chairman, LS Speaker to conduct parliamentary committee meetings||The Trinamul Congress has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging them to let parliamentary committee meetings be held virtually to enable them to address issues of public interest amidst the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. This is the TMC's third letter on the issue, the party said, adding that the first letter was written in July 2020 and the second letter in August 2020. "India has reported more than 3 lakh new Covid-19 cases per day for the past two weeks. In light of the prevailing circumstances, I urge your good offices to reconsider our request for conducting virtual meetings of parliamentary committees, including departmentally related standing committees, consultative committees and select committees," the letter from RS MP and the party's national spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. He also said that the party had received a letter from the chairman's office dated August 27, which stated that it was "decided in a meeting that the matter regarding holding of virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Committees vis- -vis existing provisions on confidentiality of the proceedings of the Committees, may be referred to the Committees on Rules in both the Houses". "I further request you to share any findings/decisions that the Committees on Rules of both the Houses may have reached. I urge you again to allow the Parliamentary Committees to function virtually so that issues of public importance can be taken up timely and discussed, especially in light of the serious circumstances in the country," O'Brien said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Has Poonawalla finally woken up to the enormity of the challenge?||What’s up exactly with India’s vaccine prince, Adar Poonawalla? Last Sunday, the Serum Institute chief executive tweeted he’d be back in India “in a few days” after stirring an uproar by saying he fled to London to escape threats from politicians and businessmen demanding to jump the vaccine queue. A few days now have stretched into a week and a company spokesman says Poonawalla “will return soon” but is giving no dates. In the meantime, the billionaire has been on a media blitz. After telling The Times, London, firmly he wouldn’t be flying home for “an extended time” because he was worried about what might happen to him if he didn’t supply vaccines pronto to powerful callers who wouldn’t take “no” for an answer, he swiftly backtracked when the comments triggered a storm in India. Poonawalla, who’s renting a Mayfair mansion for $69,000 a week, insisted he was in London only for a short business trip and he’d be flying back shortly to Pune to supervise the scaling up of his Serum Institute of India (SII) plant to 100 million doses monthly from 72 million. He also said he was there to visit his wife Natasha and two children who attend school in London. But one week later, there’s no sign of the return of Poonawalla, who took over the reins of the company from his horse-breeder turned vaccine-manufacturer father a decade ago. His office in India insisted that it didn’t “have the specific schedule, but, as mentioned, he will return soon.” The Serum Institute chief, meanwhile, has been giving one interview after another to leading newspapers including the Financial Times and the New York Times. ‘Victimised unfairly’ To the Financial Times, he repeated that he would return soon to India but added he felt he’d been “victimised very unfairly and wrongly”. Then, referring to a controversy in India over the pricing of the vaccine, he told The New York Times “there’s no end to the cribbing, the complaining, the criticising.” During his stay in London, the 40-year-old Poonawalla also announced that his company, the world’s largest manufacturing firm, would be investing $335 million in the UK though he didn’t specify whether it would be on R&D work or clinical trials or on a manufacturing plant. Poonawalla defended not having enough vaccines ready for the combined, insatiable demand from India and the world, saying that by January it had begun to look like the pandemic had been beaten back in India and that boosting production wasn’t an urgent necessity. Besides, he pointed out to the FT that the Indian government had gone slow and, “there were no orders, we did not think we needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.” Poonawalla could face a string of lawsuits because he hasn’t delivered on his global commitments. He received $300 million from the Bill Gates Foundation to help add manufacturing capacity to supply Covid-19 vaccines to the Gavi Alliance. Poonawalla has said that AstraZeneca has already served Serum Institute with a legal notice for not honouring contractual obligations. Poonawalla says that Serum has “temporarily deferred” its deliveries due to the government’s vaccine export ban. Too much confidence Some observers suggest that Poonawalla, who brimmed with confidence in 2020 about Serum Institute’s capacity to meet Indian and global vaccine demand, may have simply overestimated his company’s capabilities even though it churns out 1.5 billion doses of other vaccines a year. Last week, Poonawalla issued a statement saying that it isn’t “possible to ramp up production overnight” because vaccine-making is a specialised process. The Serum Institute chief had told the BBC last November that the company would boost its production to 100 million doses monthly by January 2021. However, a fire broke out at the new facility which was being constructed on the Serum Institute campus in Pune. Initially, he said “there would be no loss of Covishield production due to multiple production buildings that I have kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies. But he now says the blaze derailed his plans to ramp up to production and he says the expansion plans will be completed by July and the company will hit its 100 million doses monthly target. Poonawalla said to FT that the Indian government had also bungled because it delayed placing fresh orders for vaccines and had initially only placed orders for 21 million doses. The government placed a larger order for 110 million doses at the end of March when it became clear that the pandemic was in vertical take-off mode. “I’m just a manufacturer,” he told the FT, adding, “I don’t decide these policies”. At the same time as asserting he was being victimised for the vaccine shortfall, he acknowledged he “needed to grow a thicker skin.” From ‘Y’ to ‘Z’ category To The New York Times, he retreated from earlier comments made to The Times when he said that “threats is an understatement” and that “the level of expectation and aggression is unprecedented.” Instead, Poonawalla, who has “Y” category security and who now has applied to the courts for “Z” class, said merely that the threats were, “nothing we can’t handle.” Serum Institute will convert one production line in Pune to make Covid-19 vaccines now that it has received a fresh capital infusion from the Government which will help to ensure that it doesn’t run into financial difficulties through overly rapid expansion. Poonawalla insisted that, “we just try to equally distribute it across the states, adding that, “the government was guiding us about this.” Similarly, to The New York Times, Poonawalla insisted that his privately held company shouldn’t be blamed for the current shortages, “This is something coming from India,” he said, “It’s not the supplier that is defaulting.” ‘I took risks early on’ Also, he admitted frankly that Serum Institute could not ride across the world and be a global saviour because the task was too gigantic for one company. “The problem is nobody else took the risk that I did early on,” he said, adding: “I wish that others did.” Serum Institute had planned to divide its doses between India and the world, Poonawalla told NYT. Last year, he had said that four out of 10 doses were likely to go to fulfilling foreign commitments. He may have to find a new way forward on this score. Poonawalla said he knows that the world’s eyes are still on him and his company: “Everyone is depending on us to be able to give this magic silver bullet, in an almost infinite capacity,” he told the NYT. At the same time, he said: “There’s this tremendous pressure from state governments, ministers, the public, friends, and they all want the vaccine. And I’m just trying to equitably distribute it as best I can.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended up to May 17||The ongoing lockdown in Delhi will be extended by another week, up to May 17 morning, and metro trains will not operate during the period, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Marriages can only be held at home or in court with not more than 20 people, according to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). "There will be a complete prohibition on marriage ceremonies at public places, banquet halls, hotels and similar places during the period," it said. Kejriwal said although Covid-19 cases have come down in the last few days, but any leniency would squander the gains achieved so far in the current wave of the pandemic. The Delhi government had been forced to impose lockdown amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases on April 20. Although the cases have come down and positivity rate has reduced from the high of 35 per cent on April 26 to around 23 per cent now, but strictness is needed, he said. The lockdown scheduled to end at 5 am on Monday will now be extended up to May 17 morning. The chief minister also said that oxygen supply in Delhi has improved significantly in the last few days. Vaccination is also going on at a fast pace although there is a lack of adequate vaccine stock, Kejriwal said. The DDMA said district magistrates, deputy commissioners of police, authorities concerned will be responsible for ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour at inter-state bus terminals, railway stations, mandis and shops providing essential goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Let me breathe||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||India logs over 4.03 lakh fresh Covid cases||India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, which pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 37,36,648, comprising 16.76 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.15 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,83,17,404 with 3,86,444 patients recovering in a day, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 30,22,75,471 samples have been tested up to May 8 with 18,65,428 samples being tested on Saturday. The health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Covid: The Lancet journal calls on Modi govt to own up mistakes||An international medical journal has called on the Narendra Modi government to own up mistakes, provide responsible leadership and implement a science-based response to steer India out of its Covid-19 crisis and “botched vaccination campaign”, describing some of its actions as “inexcusable”. Soon after the call from The Lancet journal, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the country’s largest body of doctors, accused the Modi government of inappropriate actions, hiding data and deaths and failing to plan a roadmap to ensure adequate vaccines were available. The Lancet, in a commentary on Friday on India’s Covid-19 emergency, cited how the government had allowed religious festivals to proceed, along with huge political rallies, conspicuous for their lack of Covid-19 mitigation measures, despite warnings about the risks of super-spreader events. The commentary comes amid India’s brutal second wave that has raised the country’s seven-day average of daily cases 22-fold from 17,000 to 389,000 in eight weeks, overwhelmed hospitals and healthcare workers, and exposed poor preparedness that led to medical shortages. The journal said that at times, the Modi government had seemed “more intent on removing criticism on Twitter than trying to control the pandemic”, referring to the Centre’s directive to the micro-blogging site to take down certain posts that were critical of the government’s management of the epidemic. “Modi’s actions in attempting to stifle criticism and open discussion during the crisis are inexcusable,” the journal said, adding that the US-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation has estimated that India could see 1 million deaths by August 1. “If that outcome were to happen, Modi’s government would be responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe. India squandered its early successes in controlling Covid-19,” the journal said, suggesting corrective strategies in line with demands from sections of India’s research community. It said the government must publish accurate data in a timely manner, and explain to the public what is happening and what is needed to bend the epidemic curve, including the possibility of a new countrywide lockdown. The Lancet said the impression from the government during early 2021 was that India had beaten Covid-19 after several months of falling daily case counts, despite warnings of the dangers of a second wave and the emergence of new coronavirus strains in the country. The success of the efforts to address the crisis will depend on “the government owning up to its mistakes, providing responsible leadership and transparency, and implementing a public health response that has science at its heart”, the journal said. The Lancet’s commentary is in line with concerns among multiple experts within and outside India about the leadership and the policy-making apparatus that has pushed India into its current crisis. A survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research in January, the journal said, had suggested that only 21 per cent of the country’s population had acquired immunity against Covid-19, implying that the vast majority of the people remained susceptible. The journal, echoing demands from sections of India’s health and research experts, said the country should also expand genome sequencing to better track, understand and control the emerging and more transmissible coronavirus variants. “When the government introduces policies that conflict with science, that is where the challenge starts,” said Manoj Mohanan, a health economist and associate professor at the Duke Global Health Institute in the US. “You need to have the willingness to trust scientists to tell us what we know best and run with that. What we’re seeing in India now, even right now, is that the recommendations from the state and central governments sometimes conflict with what scientists tell us,” he said. The IMA, representing over 350,000 doctors nationwide, said the Union health ministry’s failure to prepare the necessary roadmap to ensure sufficient vaccine stocks had resulted in a shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre had started by vaccinating priority groups and people above 45 years but, as The Lancet has underlined, it “abruptly shifted course without discussing the change in policy with states, expanding vaccination to everyone older than 18 years, and creating mass confusion” and a market in which state governments and hospitals compete for vaccine doses. India’s current vaccine production capacity cannot support the nationwide demand. The IMA has also accused the health ministry of “inappropriate actions” and underlined the need for health authorities to make public accurate Covid-19 data on cases and deaths. Hundreds of deaths in large hospitals are shown as non-Covid deaths, the IMA said. “Why are we trying to hide actual deaths?” the association asked. “If the public comes to know about the actual deaths, their seriousness to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour (precautions) will rise.” The IMA has called on the government to introduce a “well-planned, pre-announced national lockdown” rather than lockdowns for 10 to 15 days in some states. The health ministry has already asked states with high daily case numbers and hospital bed occupancy greater than 60 per cent to consider rigorous closures. A 22-member expert group of health experts too had earlier this week called on the Centre and the states to consider implementing pre-announced lockdowns for six to 10 weeks after ensuring that all poor and vulnerable people receive the support they need during the closures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||India has survived because of the infrastructure built in the past 70 years: Shiv Sena||For Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the unkindest cut may have come not from the international media but from his former ally Shiv Sena. The Sena has said India has survived because of the infrastructure built in the past 70 years by previous Prime Ministers, including Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Manmohan Singh. “Small countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Nepal are helping India today because the ferociously rising Covid-19 cases here is becoming a threat to the entire world. To put it bluntly, India has survived because of the system built by Nehru-Gandhi (regimes). Otherwise, this corona(virus) wave would have destroyed the lives of 125 crore people,” an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamna said on Saturday. Highlighting that thousands were dying, the editorial said: “The world is now scared of what is happening in India. Most countries have banned travel and business engagements with India. This is hurting India financially. Still India is thriving because of projects undertaken by Jawaharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, P.V. Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh. This is a blessing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to work hard and shed political nationalism to sustain the country. It is not good for India to become a global concern.” The argument of the Sena, now a Congress ally, punctures Modi’s pet theme that nothing was achieved in the past seven decades and that India woke up only after his ascent to power. The coronavirus has undermined his boast of development and many observers have insisted that whatever India has in the shape of health infrastructure, scientific institutions and pharmaceutical companies was created by previous governments. While great institutions were envisaged and built by Nehru and Indira, India became the pharmaceutical and vaccine centre of the world during Rajiv’s rule. India was economically much stronger during Singh’s tenure, refusing international aid in times of calamities. But this government has accepted help from over 40 countries barely weeks after Prime Minister Modi boasted about having defeated the epidemic and helped other countries. The editorial said: “Now Unicef has expressed concern that India is becoming a global threat and asked (other) countries to help. Bangladesh has sent remdesivir, Bhutan has given us oxygen. Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka are extending a helping hand.” It continued: “The pyres burning in India are choking the neighbouring countries. Those countries are helping us to save themselves. We have seen countries like Pakistan, Rwanda and Congo in such a situation in the past. But India, which was supposed to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant), is in this situation today because of the wrong policies of the leaders. “But our Prime Minister is not ready to stop the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project even as poor countries are offering small assistance to us. It is surprising that spending thousands of crores on a non-essential project and accepting aid from countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka doesn’t pain us.” Regretting that India had suffered grievous injuries because of the uncontrolled epidemic, the editorial said: “The Supreme Court is lashing out at the central government daily. Had there been a sensitive or patriotic government at the Centre, they would have constituted a national team with leaders from all parties without thinking of political gains or losses and worked collectively to fight the crisis.” The biting critique came on a day Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wrote to Modi seeking permission to set up a separate app on the lines of CoWin for the age group of 18 to 45. “CoWin app seeing the sudden surge of the number of citizens wanting to register nationally, there is a fear about the app malfunctioning or crashing, as it did on the first day of registrations for the said age group,” Uddhav said. The letter betrayed a lack of satisfaction with the central system, with the chief minister also asking the Prime Minister to allow the states to procure vaccines from other manufacturers to overcome the shortages. “The state of Maharashtra is willing to procure the requisite stock of vaccines in a single procurement, if possible, so as to safeguard our citizens and to give a boost to India’s vaccination programme. However, the producers do not have enough stocks,” the letter said. “If the states are allowed to procure from other manufacturers as well, we would be able to cover a larger population in a shorter time and held reduce the impact of the possible third wave of Covid.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Delhi-based author asks 'Modi bhakts in America' to stop funding the current political dispensation ||Delhi-based author Vineetha Mokkil has written an “open letter to Modi bhakts in America” asking them to stop funding the current political dispensation as punishment for pushing India’s healthcare system towards a collapse amid the pandemic. Some readers have responded saying she has given voice to their anguish. Some have accused her of “tarnishing the image of India”. The article, titled “An open letter to Modi bhakts in America: Your God has feet of clay and blood on his hands”, was published on the South Asian American news website American Kahani on Wednesday. Mokkil, a short story writer who regularly visits the US, told The Telegraph: “The moment is right for introspection even for bhakts who may have voted for a Ram temple but are also affected by the pandemic today.” She wrote in the article: “While India gasps for breath, while patients die in hospital after hospital for lack of oxygen, while the sick collapse on the streets and beg for medicines and beds at overcrowded hospital gates, your God is lavishing Rs 22,000 crore on building himself a glitzy new palace in the heart of Delhi. “Consumed by his vanity project, he forgot to instruct his government to procure adequate vaccine supplies — the one thing that could save countless Indian lives as the second wave explodes in the country....” Mokkil said: “All those odes to India’s ancient glory, the shiny promises of turning India into a Vishwa Guru who dazzles the world, all the bombastic words he uses to cast a spell on you at his Madison Square Garden rallies are a means to an end. Your God mouths the words to make sure you donate your dollars to his political campaigns and rallies. Keep the dollars coming, and he’ll keep telling you what you want to hear.” She added: “Under your God’s watch, India had been brought to her knees. It is a pariah nation now. The Covid hotspot every nation dreads.... He has not consoled the families of the dead or met with them. “He chants Jai Shree Ram only to win elections. He pits Hindu against Muslim and throws a lit match on the fire when tensions flare up.... If your God is the protector of all Hindus as he claims to be, if your God is the bearded messiah of the Hindu Rashtra he and his party fantasise about, why did he allow the Kumbh Mela to go on knowing full well that the faithful would be infected?” She concluded: “Your callous and calculating God has finally shown his Vishwaroopam. Open your eyes wide. Open your eyes and behold his grotesque core. He is full of false promises. He has a forked tongue and an ice cold heart. He cannot save, protect or defend the people under his care. “Stop leaving offerings on his bloodied altar. Stop funding his campaigns of hate. Stop enabling the annihilation of secular India’s soul. “Find a less lethal God to worship. This one has feet of clay and blood on his hands.” On Saturday, Mokkil told this newspaper: “I wrote this letter to bhakts in the US because they have a strong investment in Indian politics. They may not all be rabid Modi followers but they enable what is happening with their (political) contributions. “All these people are culpable for our suffering due to their misplaced view of India that is not in touch with reality. Right-wing propaganda has given them a fantasy that is being realised at the expense of the suffering of people in India.” Like most Indians, Mokkil is dealing with the trauma of friends suffering from the coronavirus and loved ones struggling for basic facilities that the government should have provided. “This is avoidable suffering. People shouldn’t have to cry for help online for oxygen, beds and medicines. Things like this do not happen in other parts of the world, which too are facing the pandemic,” she said. “Besides those confusing an elected Prime Minister with India as a country and saying you cannot question the Prime Minister, there are others who don’t have a basic understanding of civics. They think that all failures are only the responsibility of the states.” Mokkil hopes that at least a few among the target audience would reconsider the destination of their donations. “We must seize the moment to reach out to bhakts who too are suffering. Words are all we have,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court sets up 12-member oxygen national task force ||The Supreme Court has set up a 12-member national task force of doctors and bureaucrats to primarily formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to mitigate the extreme shortage in many parts of the country because of the sharp rise in Covid cases. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah, which had passed the order on May 6, formally uploaded the written order on Saturday night. The members are Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, former vice-chancellor of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Calcutta; Dr Devender Singh Rana, chairperson of the board of management of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, chairperson and executive director of Narayana Healthcare, Bangalore; Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr J.V. Peter, director of Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr Naresh Trehan, chairperson and managing director of Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurgaon; Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care medicine and ICU at Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr Saumitra Rawat, chairman and head of department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplant at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, senior professor and head of department of hepatology and director at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi; Dr Zarir F. Udwadia, consultant chest physician at Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital in Mumbai; secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare; and the cabinet secretary. The cabinet secretary is the convenor of the task force while the health secretary is an ex-officio member. The court said the task force would facilitate audits of oxygen generation and distribution, and will constitute sub-groups or committees for each state and Union Territory that will have an official not below the rank of secretary to the state government, an official of the Union government not below the rank of additional or joint secretary, two medical doctors including at least one with administrative experience of managing the medical facilities of a hospital, and a representative from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. The Delhi sub-group has as members Dr Randeep Guleria, professor and head of the department of pulmonary medicine and sleep, AIIMS; Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director and director of internal medicine at Max Healthcare; and an IAS officer each from the central and the Delhi governments. The terms of reference of the national task force shall be to: * Assess and make recommendations for the entire country based on the need for and availability and distribution of medical oxygen. * Formulate and devise the methodology for the allocation of medical oxygen to the states and Union Territories on a scientific, rational and equitable basis. * Make recommendations on augmenting the available supplies of oxygen based on present and projected demands likely during the pandemic. * Make recommendations for the periodical review and revision of allocations based on the stage and impact of the pandemic. * Facilitate audits by sub-groups to determine whether the supplies allocated by the Centre reach the concerned state or Union Territory, to monitor the efficacy of the distribution networks meant for hospitals, healthcare institutions and others, whether the available stocks are being distributed on the basis of an effective, transparent and professional mechanism, and to fix accountability with regard to the utilisation of the supplies of oxygen. * Review and suggest measures necessary for ensuring the availability of essential drugs and medicines. * Plan and adopt remedial measures for ensuring preparedness to meet present and future emergencies. * Facilitate the use of technology to ensure that the available manpower is optimised for implementing innovative solutions, particularly in order to provide an outreach of expert medical care to rural areas. * Suggest measures to augment the availability of trained doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, including through the creation of suitable incentives. * Promote evidence-based research to enhance effective responses to the pandemic. * Facilitate the sharing of best practices across the nation to promote knowledge about the management of the pandemic and treatment. * Make recommendations on other issues of pressing national concern to find effective responses to the pandemic. The court said the cabinet secretary may nominate an officer not below the rank of additional secretary to depute for him when necessary. The task force is at liberty to draw upon the human resources of the Centre for consultation and information. Such personnel will include a member of the Niti Aayog to be nominated by the vice-chairperson; secretary, ministry of home affairs; secretary, department for promotion of industry and internal trade; secretary, ministry of road transport and highways; director, AIIMS, New Delhi; director-general, Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi; director-general of health services; director-general, National Informatics Centre; and head, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing. The task force will be able to co-opt or seek the assistance of other experts within or outside the government for infectious disease modelling, critical care, clinical virology/immunology and epidemiology/public health. The Centre, state governments, ministries, agencies and departments shall provide complete and real-time data to facilitate the work of the task force. All private hospitals and other healthcare institutions will have to cooperate with the task force. “The rationale for constituting a task force at the national level is to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. We expect that the leading experts in the country shall associate with the work of the task force both as members and resource persons,” the Supreme Court said. “This will facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis. The establishment of this task force will enable the decision-makers to have inputs that go beyond finding ad-hoc solutions to the problems. The likely future course of the pandemic must be taken into contemplation at the present time,” the bench added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Mumbai averts oxygen crisis by anticipating its own outbreak||Mumbai evaded an oxygen shortage crisis that has hit other cities with explosive Covid-19 surges by anticipating its own outbreak, tweaking treatment guidelines and executing well-coordinated oxygen deliveries, medical experts guiding Maharashtra’s Covid-19 response have said. Dozens of patients have died in Delhi and other cities after hospitals ran short of oxygen but Mumbai hasn’t reported Covid-19 deaths under such circumstances, although its peak counts of active patients were comparable with those of the national capital. The Supreme Court had on Wednesday asked the Centre to emulate Mumbai’s model in efforts to ensure adequate oxygen supplies reach hospitals. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre in the Supreme Court, appeared to hint that Delhi was making an exaggerated claim for oxygen as Mumbai, which had similar case loads earlier, had managed with 275 metric tonnes of oxygen through “optimal institutional mechanisms”. Delhi, which has an active caseload of 92,000 patients, had sought from the Centre — and received late Wednesday — 700MT of oxygen. Doctors who are members of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said Mumbai had during April experienced a surge in which counts of active patients rose to around 90,000, comparable with the 92,000 active patients in Delhi earlier this week. “We anticipated the surge, changed our oxygen therapy guidelines, asked for rational oxygen use and oxygen audits,” said Shashank Joshi, a senior endocrinologist and member of the task force. “Overall, I think, the city was more organised, there was a lot of transparency and decentralised decisions.” Joshi said the city’s municipal corporation played a key role in tracking the numbers of patients admitted in hospitals, anticipating the oxygen requirements on a daily basis, and chanelling supplies exactly where they were required. The corporation divided the city into 24 wards and created “war rooms” for each ward, noting the number of patients admitted each day in each hospital under the ward and planning and diverting oxygen tankers to hospitals under stress. “There was some struggle during the peak around April 11 or 12 when we had over 92,000 active cases, but overall hospitals received the oxygen supplies they needed,” Joshi said. “We also have strong oxygen audits,” he said, referring to measures to ensure that the life-saving gas is not wasted. The medical team tweaked guidelines and urged doctors to try and achieve an oxygen saturation level between 93 to 95 per cent in patients who are on non-ventilation oxygen support and a level of about 90 in ventilated patients — instead of the earlier target of 97 to 98. This change helped conserve oxygen, said Rahul Pandit, a critical care medicine specialist at the Fortis Hospital, Mumbai, who’s also a task force member. “By March when cases started to increase, we were very very concerned about the need for oxygen, but these changes and audits have helped.” Pandit said the medical team guiding the state relied on medical literature that had suggested that slightly lowering the oxygen saturation targets in patients with acute respiratory distress and on oxygen support improves the patients’ outcome. A doctor and member of the task force who requested not to be named said the state government deserved credit for taking decisions based on guidance from “science and doctors”. Members of the task force had recognised early during the surge — by mid-March — that the increase in daily cases appeared to be driven by a coronavirus variant more infectious than the ones circulating during the epidemic’s first wave last year. “We noticed more people in the same household were getting infected this time compared with last year,” a task force member said. “This implied greater transmissibility and a large surge — this helped us anticipate a spike and caution the government.” Central health officials have also recommended the revised oxygen therapy guidelines, regular oxygen audits and the rational use of oxygen but, a public health expert in New Delhi said, these need to be rigorously adopted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid-19 test result not must for treatment||A positive Covid-19 test result is not mandatory for admission to a coronavirus health facility, the Union health ministry said on Saturday, releasing an admissions policy that also says “no patient should be refused services on any count”. The health ministry has directed chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories to issue necessary orders within three days to enforce the new admissions policy that the ministry has described as “more patient-centric” and “based on need”. The policy comes at a time India’s Covid-19 epidemic’s surge has added an average of 389,800 new patients every day over the past week, raising the number of active patients to over 3.72 million and intensifying shortages of hospital and oxygen-supported beds. Among the 3.72 million active patients, according to health ministry data, around 202,000 patients on Saturday were in hospital care — 137,768 (3.7 per cent) on oxygen support, 49,894 (1.34 per cent) in intensive care units and 14,521 (0.39 per cent) on ventilators. Doctors say it is unclear how the new admissions policy would impact patients in the hardest-hit districts where massive and sustained clusters of new cases have meant hospitals are grappling with shortages of beds and oxygen. “Currently only those patients who are severely hypoxic (deprived of oxygen) are able to get hospital beds,” said Oommen John, a senior physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “What would already overloaded hospitals do if all symptomatic patients turn up for a patient-centric experience?” The admissions policy says no patient should be refused services on any count. “This includes medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city,” the ministry said, adding that patients should not be denied admission on the ground that they do not have identity cards of the city where the hospital is located. The ministry said beds should not be occupied by persons who do not need hospital care. In some states, doctors say, the proportions of patients in hospitals are significantly higher than what they should be given the active cases reported by them. This, they say, could be explained only if cases are undercounted or if beds are occupied by those who do not need hospital care. The Delhi state Covid-19 bulletin on May 7, for instance, reported 19,922 patients in hospital. But the number of active patients was about 98,000 ten days ago and nearly 100,000 a week ago, assuming a lag between new infections and demand for hospital beds. These numbers suggest that nearly 20 per cent of Delhi’s Covid-19 cases are in hospital, a proportion significantly greater than about 6 per cent (3.7 per cent on oxygen, 1.34 in ICUs and 0.39 on ventilators) nationwide, according to health ministry data. Two weeks ago, doctors in Gujarat had also noticed that the demand for and occupancy of hospital beds was inconsistent with the state’s number of active cases — about 115,000 on April 25. “Covid-19 is mild in 85 to 90 per cent of patients — even if we assumed that 20 per cent of Gujarat’s Covid-19 patients required hospital beds, the actual number of beds occupied was much higher than what the demand should have been,” said a public health specialist in Gujarat. Such anomalies, experts say, represent undercounting of cases. “Improving outcomes will not be determined by how we triage and keep as many at home and recognise early those who need hospital care,” said John.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Allahabad High Court prods UP to speed up vaccine purchase||Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to shorten the process of procurement of Covid vaccines from international producers, suggesting that the state deal directly with foreign companies instead of inviting tenders. “We are of the opinion that tender is a long-drawn process and if we run late in vaccinating a large portion of the population of the state, we may lose the real desired result of vaccination as the virus may mutate, which may neutralise the vaccines also,” the bench of Justices Siddharth Varma and Ajit Kumar said on Friday while hearing a PIL. “Since a large number of people are getting infected every day and scientists are of the view that a third wave is almost at the doorstep of India, it is necessary that (the) government enters into direct dialogue with vaccine producers with the help of Indian diplomats in those countries. We must remember that in the context of the Covid-19 virus, unless every individual is protected, no one is safe,” the court added. The bench was reacting to the submissions of Manish Goyal, the additional advocate-general of Uttar Pradesh, and S.V. Raju, additional solicitor-general of India, that the state government had floated global tenders to buy vaccines. The court asked the state government to submit details of the measures taken by it to check the spread of the virus in rural and suburban areas and smaller cities. The court also asked the state government to release within a week the oxygen, medicines and equipment such as oximeters seized from black-marketeers so that these can be used by patients. It expressed dissatisfaction with K. Balaji, the district magistrate of Meerut, over his replies to questions on the allegation that patients had died at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College hospital in Meerut for want of oxygen. The officer submitted that the deaths were not caused by dearth of oxygen. “On a pointed query being made as to what was the exact stock (of oxygen) in the hospital on the fateful day, the district magistrate of Meerut could not give any satisfactory reply. He also could not reply as to what was the cause of the deaths if it were not for want of oxygen. The district magistrate of Meerut, in our considered view, has not conducted an inquiry in the letter and spirit of the mandate contained in our order. He should have obtained specific information, especially when a judicial notice had been taken of the news item and concrete material should have been placed before us as reply to our query,” the high court said. The bench had taken note of video clips circulating on social media of patients purportedly dying because of shortage of oxygen at the medical college hospital in the western Uttar Pradesh district and asked the DM on May 4 to investigate the matter and report to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Kerala churches help migrants in lockdown||Social service organisations of a few churches in Kerala have come forward to help migrant workers in the state that went into a full lockdown mode on Saturday. The Kerala government has assured free food, Covid treatment and vaccines to more than 15 lakh migrant labourers — mainly from Bengal, Assam, Bihar and Jharkhand — in the state. Malankara Social Service Society, an NGO of the Malankara Orthodox Church, has launched its help desks named “Pravasi Bandhu” to ensure all the government welfare measures are delivered to the migrant workers. Funded by Caritas India, another church-run organisation, the society has already undertaken an outreach in cities where migrants live in large numbers. “Our help desks in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kannur will take care of the immediate needs of the migrants across the state. This includes ensuring free vaccines, Covid treatment, dry rations announced by the government and any other help they might need to tide over the pandemic,” Father Thomas Mukalumpurath, executive director of the society, told The Telegraph on Saturday. The state labour department has already launched a programme to test migrant workers in the state for Covid. “We plan to maintain this help desk even after the pandemic subsides since continued assistance is required for migrants,” he said. “During the first wave of Covid last year, we had concentrated on providing assistance to local families with physically and mentally challenged people. But then we realised that migrant workers have their own specific issues, including the language barrier that often comes in the way of getting what is rightfully theirs,” said the clergyman. “Our aim is to ensure the migrants get all of these benefits. We have already reached out to their colonies to spread the word about our initiative,” he said, adding the experience from Ernakulam where they have been operational since August 2019, would be replicated across the state. Anandu Shaji, coordinator of the centre in Kochi, the district headquarters of Ernakulam, said: “We have tied up with the National Health Mission on the vaccination programme and want to ensure every migrant worker is inoculated. We are also busy identifying a dedicated first line treatment centre for migrants in Ernakulam so that they get proper treatment for Covid.” Shaji is part of Welfare Services Ernakulam run by the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church. More than 3,000 masks have already been distributed in Vathuruthy in Kochi where over 5,000 migrants from Tamil Nadu live. “Most of the migrant workers don’t wear masks, especially while working. We are trying to educate them on the need to wear masks to ward off Covid and to ensure they don’t get fined by police,” he said. The society has “reached out to more than 200 representatives of migrant workers in Thiruvananthapuram to send across the word that they could communicate to us any problem they might face in getting vaccinations or medical care”, said Sijo Thinavila, coordinator in the state capital. Such initiatives, he said, would help reduce anxiety among the workers who had last year staged massive protests for transport to go back to their home states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Congress Working Committee meet on May 10||The Congress Working Committee will meet on May 10 to discuss the disastrous performance in the Assembly elections amid rising concerns in the party over the state of affairs, particularly the decision-making processes over the last two years. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had herself described the performance as “disappointing” and “unexpected” as the party hoped to do better in both Assam and Kerala. The party is expected to hold organisational elections to elect a new president next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Cow vigilantes attack men over oxen in Jammu||Cow vigilantes grievously injured two men from the tribal Gujjar community in Jammu on Thursday night, with a tribal activist saying such attacks have been common in the region through the Covid outbreak and lockdowns. Thursday’s assault became widely known because the allegedly stick-and-knife-wielding attackers posted a video of the violence, prompting police to lodge a case and make a few arrests. Mohammad Sidiq and Amir Hussain, who are cousins, were returning home after buying a pair of oxen when they were attacked in the Garkote area of Jammu. They have been admitted to hospital with multiple injuries to their heads and faces. In the video, the fear-stricken youths are seen bleeding from the head, face, mouth and ear. One of the several stick-wielding men in the images, their faces not visible, is heard screaming to another to shoot a video. The site seems to be a forest, and there appears to be a source of light somewhere close. A police officer said a case had been registered invoking attempt-to-murder and other charges. The Gujjars are the only community in Jammu and Kashmir that is entirely Muslim, unlike Gujjars in other states who are largely Hindus. They mostly rear sheep, goat and cattle. Sidiq told The Telegraph from his Jammu hospital bed that he had 17 stitches on his head. “One of my teeth broke. Hussain too has multiple injuries,” he said. “It was dark and I can’t tell how many men attacked us. They probably had knives (and sticks). As soon as they attacked, we fell unconscious.” Sidiq said that when he regained consciousness, he found the police had arrived. Some of the attackers were still there. “The police rescued us. We had lain there (a long time). It would have taken the police no less than an hour and a half to arrive. They (the police) shifted us to hospital,” he said. Sidiq said the cousins had bought the oxen from Keri village and were taking them back home to Gorda village for “our personal use”. “We don’t have tractors; we use them (oxen) in our fields. We were fasting during the day (because of Ramazan). We broke the fast in Keri, because of which we were late,” he said. “They alleged that we were cattle traders and planned to sell the oxen in Srinagar. We pleaded innocent but they beat us with whatever they had in their hands. We fell unconscious.” The incident triggered outrage, with many asking the police to act. “Attack, beat & shoot video. This is your Mardangi. Even in this crisis these Goons are attacking poor tribals in Jammu,” tribal activist Guftar Chowdhary tweeted. Chowdhary told this newspaper there had been no let-up in such attacks during the epidemic. “Every month or two, we see such cases,” he said. The activist said he had spoken to the police and learnt that five men had been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Boy killed at home in UP post-poll violence||A 14-year-old schoolboy became the sixth person to be killed in post-panchayat-poll violence in Uttar Pradesh when the husband and brothers-in-law of a victorious candidate allegedly barged into his home and shot him on Friday night. Victim Deepak Kumar, a Class VI student, was the nephew of the losing candidate, Meenu Pal, at the Samaspur Atiya Kabulpur gram panchayat in Unnao district. Among the accused are Randheer Singh, husband of the newly elected gram panchayat chief Anuradha Singh, his brothers Anup and Manoj, and supporter Abhishek Singh. Eyewitnesses said they had walked into Meenu’s home carrying rifles and batons. “They were angry with (Meenu’s husband) Manoj Kumar Pal for fielding his wife in the election against the wishes of Randheer, who wanted him to support Anuradha,” a villager said on the condition of anonymity. Siya Dulari, mother of Manoj, said: “They entered our house firing in all directions. Deepak, son of my younger son Mithilesh, took a bullet in the chest. He was taken to the local community health centre and then to the district hospital, where he died.” Siya Dulari said she suffered injuries to her back after being beaten up. “There was no point attacking us when Anuradha had won the election. But Randheer wanted to terrorise people so that nobody opposed him in future,” she said. A supporter of Anuradha said: “Manoj had taken money from Randheer to withdraw his wife’s candidature but did not.” Both Anuradha and Meenu were Independent candidates. Some villagers said the trigger for the attack was a quarrel during a wedding procession, in which Abhishek was participating. “Abhishek shouted invectives at Mithilesh while the procession was passing before the Pals’ home. When Mithilesh reacted, Abhishek called Randheer on the phone. Then Randheer and the others arrived and attacked the family,” a villager said. Bhavnath Chawdhary, station house officer of Fatehpur Chaurasi, said a murder case had been registered against seven people on a complaint from Manoj. “A hunt is on to arrest the accused,” he said. Violence has been raging in almost every district of Uttar Pradesh since the results began to be announced between May 3 and 5 for the four-phase panchayat elections, held from April 15 to 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Shot in the dark||This fight against Covid-19 is admittedly the most unprecedented and unpredictable battle that the human race has ever fought against a common enemy; it is not only invisible but also frustratingly elusive. That is why the strategy adopted to fight this virus is more important than the weapons we deploy against it. Until now we have failed to find a single drug or therapeutic tool that will effectively kill this virus within the human body. All drugs and clinical tools that are being used are essentially being repurposed. This implies that they were already in use to treat other ailments or viral diseases and none of them has been pre-tested or incontrovertibly been proven to work on this virus, particularly its evolving variants. The only viable option left to us to counter this virus are the vaccines. However, vaccines are essentially used to help build a fortress or defence mechanism within the body against viruses. They are not real-time therapeutic agents, and therefore they need to be administered long before an anticipated attack by a virus. That is why embarking on an aggressive vaccination programme amidst a raging pandemic is somewhat like starting to build a fortress after sighting an approaching enemy. This strategy may well be a recipe for defeat. We may end up developing incomplete or no resistance to the virus at a point when the virus actually invades. This becomes even more relevant when the virus is constantly changing its looks and pattern of virulence through rapid mutations. This has baffled and evaded our immunological defence. Therefore, believing that a vaccine will always come with an assurance of immunity is not necessarily true. It appears that many people are developing a false sense of immunity just after getting their first shot. They are shunning social distancing and masking up; this will promote more infections and imperil communities. Some people are also claiming that vaccination is the only way to accomplish herd immunity against this virus. These people are most likely unaware of the modus operandi of fast mutating RNA viruses such as the novel coronavirus, which can potentially evolve means to evade a manmade vaccine faster than we can develop or modify them. Which means rushing for these shots to hospitals and clinics in panic mode in the belief that one would become immune to the virus and its multiple variants almost overnight may not be prudent, especially when there are too many people moving around and spreading the infection right now. Notably, one may not even develop the desired immune defence against the nasty variants of this virus even after months of getting the second shot of the vaccine. As all the vaccines developed against the novel coronavirus are still under emergency use and their efficacy against the multifarious variants or mutants of the virus pervading in our country is still not known. It is, therefore, prudent not to nurse any complacency over complete immunity post the administration of the vaccine. The truth is that a large number of people are infected by mutants even after both the doses of the vaccine. The other thing to note is that individuals infected by the virus are also getting re-infected because of their apparent failure to accomplish natural immunity from the primary infection. Thus, accomplishing herd immunity against this fiercely mutating vi-rus either through natural immunity or immunisation certainly looks more challenging than earlier perceived. The most viable way to get rid of this virus, for the time being, would be to eliminate it through isolation and not wait to destroy it within our body; it will perhaps take a long time for us to figure out how to effectively accomplish this task. Strategically, the ideal time to vaccinate communities is when the infection rate is low. Why? First, because the virus is relatively inactive during such a phase leaving most recipients of the vaccine uninfected. Second, because people coming out to get vaccinated have a lesser probability of getting infected during such an exercise. India’s infection scenario in terms of the infection rate dipped to impressively low values around the end of December 2020 and remained so until the end of March this year. This means that we had almost three months to protect ourselves from a second wave through vaccination — enough time to get the majority of our population vaccinated given our established infrastructure for carrying out the largest vaccination programmes in the world. We were let down during this period. We managed to administer the first dose of the vaccine to around six crore citizens who comprise a mere 4 per cent of our total population. Given our mammoth population size, this coverage was of virtually no use for stopping the virus from spreading even if the vaccine worked. It is baffling why instead of boosting our vaccine development and procurement capability we indulged in “vaccine diplomacy”, exporting as many as 66 million vaccine units to other countries at a time when India itself was in dire need of such preventives. Also, no visible efforts were taken to import the widely used and successful vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson. The current crisis of vaccines in India was entirely avoidable. We probably never had a well-planned vaccination rollout and administration policy in place to ensure that most citizens are protected against the virus before the arrival of the second wave. The current vaccine crisis has serious implications for the population; we may well witness an escalation with over 40 per cent of our population in the age group of 18-45 years seeking the vaccine right now. As a priority, healthcare workers, frontline workers, people with comorbidities and senior citizens who have had their first shot need to get their second shot on time. This is extremely important not only because the first shot doesn’t generate enough immunity to combat the rapidly multiplying virus, but failing to get the second shot on time may also lead to gradual loss of the relatively low levels of antibodies generated against the virus. Moreover, it may affect the cellular immunity necessary for registering sustainable immunological memory through the first shot. This is an essential prerequisite for boosting our immunity to levels required for effectively neutralising the virus through the second shot. Moreover, if such second shot-deprived individuals get infected, particularly by the more virulent variants now riding the second wave, it may also allow the virus to evade the humble immune defence generated by the vaccine to transform into more resistant strains capable of stronger immune evasion. It may not only become challenging to counter such strains with similar vaccines in the future but also they may develop the potential to trigger fresh waves of infection. While it is important to vaccinate people, calling out the sizable population of our youth for vaccination when the virus is all-pervasive may also generate fresh risks of infection for a large number of such young men and women who are now vulnerable to rogue strains. In fact, crowd vaccination needs to be executed with utmost care, ensuring social distancing backed by adequate vaccine supply. Unfortunately, none of this seems to have been paid heed to. One of the most overlooked exercises that our hallowed scientific advisers have failed to mobilise the government to act on is the early characterisation of the numerous mutants or variants of the virus through extensive genome sequencing. This would have helped us immensely not only in figuring out how many versions of the virus are operating right now but also in determining their source and virulence potential. In addition, that would have made for effective contact tracing. Unfortunately, we didn’t take this exercise seriously enough at a time when it was most needed. Today, we don’t have any idea of the number of variants of the virus and their relative potential to infect or kill. Unfortunately, our health regulatory bodies continued to either sit on or delay necessary research efforts on the virus. Assessing vaccine efficacy against the evolving variants of the virus would be quite difficult without such research data and may also adversely affect the prospects of the ongoing vaccination programme. So vaccines or no vaccines, the only way to end this pandemic is to stay away from this virus since the more we confront or invite it, the more we lose precious lives and also provide it with an opportunity to mutate to increasingly unmanageable forms. We need to stay indoors and continue to protect and disinfect ourselves whenever we encounter the outside world. We survive this or perish together; victory is impossible until every citizen participates and complies. There clearly is no other choice. The writer is professor and head of the department of biotechnology at the Guha Centre for Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology, University of Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Ex-MP Pappu Yadav row with Rudy over parked ambulances||Former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party president Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav has triggered a controversy after raiding a place where over two dozen ambulances purchased from the funds provided by Saran Lok Sabha MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy were parked . The ambulances had Rudy’s name and were bought using funds from the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). Accompanied with his supporters, Yadav visited the place on Friday where the ambulances were standing and after a tiff with the security men went inside and removed the tarpaulin cover from the stationary ambulances. The former MP came down heavily on Rudy for not utilising the ambulances when Covid-19 patients are dying for want of emergency services. “People are paying as much as Rs 12,000 to ferry Covid patients to hospitals even though the hospital may be just 1km away. There is an acute shortage of ambulances and the Saran MP has kept about 100 ambulances. He has distributed some ambulances among his own men. There should be a probe into the matter. The MPLAD fund is public money,” said the Jan Adhikar Party chief. Following the incident, a supporter of Rudy complained to the police against Pappu for trespassing and vandalising the ambulances. An FIR was registered against Pappu with the Amnour police station on Saturday, superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said. The incident triggered a war of words between Rudy and Pappu. Rudy, former Union minister and sitting Lok Sabha MP from Saran, said the ambulances were standing because of the non-availability of drivers to ply them due to prevalence of Covid. He attacked Pappu for playing politics over the issue and threw a challenge to arrange drivers for use of the vehicles. Pappu retorted sharply and at a news conference in Patna paraded some drivers carrying their driving licence who are prepared to run those stationed ambulances. He appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to prevent such activities and utilise services of these drivers who are ready to work. Pappu, a multiple MP from Madhepura, who carries a Robin Hood image, has been seen helping Covid patients get oxygen cylinders and visiting hospitals to help the needy. Recently, a video had been shared widely showing him stopping a truck in which bouncers were transporting medical oxygen cylinders to a private hospital in Patna. Pappu had lost the Lok Sabha election from Madhepura in 2019 to JDU leader Dinesh Chandra Yadav. Once a close confidant of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, Pappu fell out with him before the 2015 Assembly elections in Bihar and formed his own party. His wife Ranjeet Ranjan is a former Congress MP from Supual in Bihar. She also lost the parliamentary polls in 2019. Considered a political bastion of Lalu, Rudy won the Saran Lok Sabha seat in 2014 as well as in 2019. He served as the Union minister of state (independent charge) of skill development in Narendra Modi’s previous ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Virtual meeting aid with kin to relieve Covid patient stress in Odisha||A few weeks back, Gitarani Maharana died in a hospital in Odisha after battling Covid-19 for a week. During this period, her family was completely unaware of her deteriorating health condition as the hospital did not allow any communication between her and her family members. The hospital just informed the family about her death the day she passed away. Maharana’s case is not unique. Relatives of most Covid patients in the state have similar experiences. Complaints of hospitals not allowing any communication with patients leading to them suffering bouts of depression, a contributing factor to the deterioration of their health, have been pouring in from different parts of the state. “Most of the patients died due to fear. Once they get admitted in a hospital and remain isolated from their families, the feeling of loneliness makes them even more vulnerable. They need to talk to their family members,” Dr Meenakhi Mohanty told The Telegraph. But there is now a ray of hope for such patients with the Malkangiri district administration coming out with an innovative plan to alleviate the stress and boost their morale while in isolation in hospitals. The district administration has introduced E-Sakshyat or virtual meeting of the patients with their family members. “We have introduced the E-Sakshyat of patients with their relatives. The relatives can talk to bed-ridden patients and can take feedback from them about their treatment,” Malkangiri district collector Yeddula Vijay told this newspaper. In order to facilitate E–Sakshyat, the district administration has opened a centre in front of the district Covid care centre. Two large monitors with Zoom videoconferencing application have been installed at the centre. Similarly, a monitor and TV screens have been provided to each of the Covid care and Covid health centres. This will help patients communicate with their families. “It has been done with a good intention and has already started showing results. Patients and their relatives are happy. Since a lot of patients suffer psychologically due to stress we are sure this mechanism will provide them relief,” Malkangiri chief district medical officer P.K. Nanda told this newspaper. The state registered 11,807 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the virus caseload to 524,207. The state also reported 21 deaths due to the virus taking the number of fatalities to 2,161. Malkangiri district reported 175 new cases. In some parts of the state, especially in rural areas, a social stigma is being attached to those suffering from the disease. The fear of getting infected is playing on the minds of people who are refusing even to perform the last rites of their own family members succumbing to the virus. In one such case reported from Badamba block of Cuttack district, the relatives of a 63-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19, did not turn up to perform her last rites forcing two local officers to conduct her cremation. A young doctor Udaya Jyoti Mallick and local tehsildar Debdutt Dutta Mahant cremated her body at Ichapur, the woman’s native village, instead of taking her to the Cuttack city crematorium, around 50km away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
