10-05-2021||India||Need to take note of serious setbacks in assembly polls, says Sonia at CWC meet||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said the party has to take note of its serious setbacks in assembly polls, and face the reality to draw the right lessons. Addressing a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi said she intends to set up a small group to look at every aspect that caused such reverses. The meeting of the top Congress body has been convened to deliberate and introspect on the party's poor performance in the just-concluded assembly elections. The Congress fared poorly, drawing a blank in West Bengal and failing to win back power in Kerala and Assam, besides losing Puducherry. The party only came to power with the help of its ally DMK in Tamil Nadu. "We have to take note of our serious setbacks. To say that we are deeply disappointed is to make an understatement. I intend to set up a small group to look at every aspect that caused such reverses and report back very quickly," she told the meeting in her inaugural address. Gandhi said the party needs to candidly understand "why in Kerala and Assam we failed to dislodge the incumbent governments, and why in West Bengal we drew a complete blank". "These will yield uncomfortable lessons, but if we do not face up to the reality, if we do not look the facts in the face, we will not draw the right lessons," she noted. Gandhi also said that the schedule to elect the new Congress president would also be discussed at the meeting. She also hit out at the Modi government over the handling of the pandemic situation. "The situation has become even more catastrophic. Governance failures have become even more stark. Scientific advice has been willfully ignored and the country is paying a horrendous price for the Modi government's neglect of the pandemic, indeed its willful patronage of super-spreader events that were allowed for partisan gains," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||India records over 3.66 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,754 casualties in a day||After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 COVID-19 cases on Monday, which pushed its tally to 2,26,62,575, according to the health ministry. The death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 2,46,116 with 3,754 more people succumbing to it, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country has gone up to 37,45,237, accounting for 16.53 per cent of its total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.39 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 1,86,71,222, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, according to the data. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The figure crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 30,37,50,077 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 14,74,606 on Sunday. The 3,754 new fatalities include 572 from Maharashtra, 490 from Karnataka, 294 from Uttar Pradesh, 273 from Delhi, 236 from Tamil Nadu, 191 from Punjab, 189 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Uttarakhand, 159 from Rajasthan, 151 from Haryana, 124 from West Bengal and 121 from Gujarat. Of the total 2,46,116 deaths caused by the viral disease, 75,849 were reported from Maharashtra, 19,344 from Delhi, 18,776 from Karnataka, 15,648 from Tamil Nadu, 15,464 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,327 from West Bengal, 10,570 from Chhattisgarh and 10,506 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the numbers is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||Dad's death beats bail drive||A Twitter campaign spearheaded by students was scheduled to roll from 7pm to 9pm on Sunday seeking the release of Natasha Narwal from jail on bail, given the worsening health of her father and Covid patient Mahavir Narwal. Around 6pm on Sunday, Mahavir Narwal passed away in a Haryana hospital. Natasha, a Jawaharlal Nehru University student who led the women’s student group Pinjra Tod, has been in jail for almost a year for several cases related to the protests against the new citizenship regime, including the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). She has secured bail in two cases, and the order in her bail plea for a third under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) was reserved by Delhi High Court on April 27. Several students are in jail in the case. During her time as an undertrial in Tihar Jail, she has served in the prison library, taught yoga and moved court for online meetings of prisoners with their families and non-vegetarian food. Last week, on a petition by Natasha and her fellow JNU student Devangana Kalita, the high court had ordered Covid vaccination for those aged 18 to 45 in jail. Her father, a 71-year old retired agriculture scientist, was in the intensive care unit of Rohtak’s Positron Multi Speciality and Cancer Hospital, where he was admitted on May 3. Mahavir Narwal had taught for decades at Hisar's Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, and led the Haryana unit of the CPM-backed Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, an  NGO that promotes scientific temper and knowledge. Mahavir Narwal had stood by his daughter when she was arrested. Author Natasha Badhwar tweeted an old interview of him and wrote: “Natasha Narwal’s father, Mahavir Narwal, has died without being able to meet his daughter. ‘There is nothing to fear about being in jail’, he had said about his daughter’s wrongful arrest. ‘My daughter will cope with positivity and come back stronger’.” As a student, Mahavir Narwal had spent 11 months in jail during the Emergency. His son Aakash is also diagnosed with Covid  and is under home isolation in Rohtak The CPM’s Haryana and Delhi units have condoled the death of Mahavir  Narwal. CPIML-Liberation politburo member Kavita Krishnan tweeted: “Modi regime tortures feminists, forcing them to be in prison while loved ones die of Covid-19. Young @PinjraTod activist Natasha Narwal is in prison for the crime of protest -- under the UAPA law which does not allow for bail. Her lovely father Mahavir Narwal just died of Covid-19.” Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Jitendra Ahwad described  Mahavir Narwal as “the bravest, most compassionate man”. The father of Natasha Narwal “has died without being able to meet his daughter. #RAGE”, he tweeted. After youth activists were rounded up for the riots cases last year, Mahavir Narwal stood out among parents for his serene yet relentless and unequivocal defence of the right to dissent, even at the cost of his daughter's incarceration. Several people pointed out the callousness of the State in such matters.. Last year, Maoist convict G.N. Saibaba's ailing mother passed away four days after he was denied bail to meet her. Film critic Anna Vetticad tweeted: “A double whammy of cruelty has been visited upon this family by the Indian government – while Natasha Narwal is in jail for battling injustice, her father has succumbed to a disease the government failed to control.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||Covid : 34 lakh salaried Indians lost their jobs in April||Thirty-four lakh salaried Indians lost their jobs in April as small and medium enterprises struggled to survive, unable to withstand the Covid second wave at a time they had not fully recovered from the pandemic’s first wave. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private research group, a total of 73.5 lakh jobs were lost in April, the unemployment rate rising to 7.97 per cent from 6.5 per cent in March. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas said the lockdowns and economic slowdown had devastated small enterprises in the rural areas. “Last year, the economy suffered a major shock. Before it fully recovered, the second wave of Covid caused significant shock yet again,” Vyas said. “If the economy bounces back very quickly and robustly, these enterprises may come back to life. But the outlook does not appear promising now.” India had 38.877 crore employed people at the end of December 2020, counting both the organised and unorganised sectors. The number rose to 40.07 crore by January-end but fell to 39.821 crore by February, 39.814 crore by March and 39.079 crore by April-end. Some 28.4 lakh salaried jobs were lost in the rural areas and 5.6 lakh in the cities, reducing the number of salaried employees from 4.6 crore in March to 4.544 crore in April. In the villages, the number of the salaried fell from 3.324 crore in February to 3.072 crore in March and to 2.788 crore in April. Labour economist and retired JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said the share of the lost salaried jobs among the total jobs lost was very high, and represented a “deeper crisis”. “A section of the 73.5 lakh people who lost their jobs (in April) were agricultural workers who had just finished harvesting. They will resume working once the sowing season starts in June,” Mehrotra said. “But the 34 lakh who lost their salaried jobs are in a deeper crisis. They worked in small and medium industries that have closed their operations. Many of these units are unlikely to revive amid the economic slowdown.” One of those left in the lurch is Ullash Kumar, a native of Jharkhand’s Giridih district who worked in a factory on Pune’s outskirts that produces AC and generator parts. As the second wave of Covid struck, the factory suspended work and Kumar returned home in April. The father of two small children has had no employment since then and has exhausted his savings. “I worked as a machine operator. There’s no work here that matches my skills. We have no land, either. I have had to borrow money for my family’s daily expenses,” Kumar said. Mehrotra said the State of Working India 2021 report, released by the Azim Premji University, had found that after last year’s lockdown, the suddenly unemployed workers had taken up occupations more precarious and informal than their earlier jobs. “The situation will now be the same for the nearly 34 lakh salaried workers who have lost their jobs,” he said. Vyas said the government ought to recognise the problem of job loss to be able to find a solution. “The first thing for the government is to recognise that there have been job losses; only then can corrective actions be initiated,” he said. Mehrotra said the second wave might affect economic activities for the next two or three months, and underlined that there’s already talk of a third wave. “The economic losses suffered in 2020-21 are unlikely to be recovered in 2021-22. So the option available before the government is to borrow and spend on public infrastructure and employment-generation,” he said. Mehrotra said India’s post-Covid fiscal stimulus in 2020-21 was 2.2 per cent of the GDP while a comparable economy like Brazil devoted 12 per cent of its GDP for the purpose. “The government’s actual allocation for the health sector for 2021-22, if you remove the allocation for Covid management, is less than what it allocated last year,” he said. “The government should borrow and spend on the health infrastructure and an urban employment programme, and also send a certain amount of money directly to the bank accounts of the vulnerable population.” Several states have already enforced lockdowns, increasing the possibility of job losses in the next few months. The central trade unions have demanded that the Centre compensate the workers for the period they remain jobless because of the Covid situation. “Private employers are not paying any compensation to the workers. The government must provide them compensation,” said Ashok Singh, vice-president of the Congress-affiliated Intuc. The State of Working India report estimates that the Covid first wave reduced workers’ earnings and pushed the families of 23 crore Indians into poverty. It says about 10 crore people became freshly unemployed during the nationwide April-May lockdown last year. Most of them were back at work by June but by the end of last year, about 1.5 crore of them still remained jobless. The report has recommended additional government support to compensate the workers for their lost jobs and also offset the anticipated impact of the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: FB suspends account of poet for mocking BJP’s humiliating defeat||Facebook briefly suspended  the account of K. Satchidanandan, one of the most renowned poets from Kerala and the former secretary of the Sahitya Akademi, over posts that mocked the BJP’s humiliating defeat in the polls in the southern state. “I see this as a reflection of their (the BJP’s) fears based on mounting criticism within their own party and the RSS, besides international flak for the way the epidemic is being handled,” the Delhi-based Satchidanandan told The Telegraph on Sunday. The poet’s Facebook account had been suspended on Friday for “violating community standard” after he shared a video that lampoons the BJP for its poor showing in Kerala, where the party lost the sole seat it had won in 2016. “It was a video clip from some movie showing Hitler taking his generals to task (accompanied with subtitles in Malayalam implying the man doing the ranting is a top BJP leader),” said Satchidanandan, who writes in Malayalam and English. “I found it hilarious and true. But Facebook removed it in just five minutes and sent me a notice about the 24-hour suspension and 30-day ban on posting any live video.” The Facebook page was eventually restored at 11pm on Saturday. This was not a first brush with Facebook for Satchidanandan. “On April 21, they warned me over a post in which Modi was held responsible for the second wave of Covid. After removing it promptly, Facebook warned me there would be time-bound restrictions on my activities on my page,” he recalled. The poet said Indians were finally turning around and questioning the NDA government for its failures. “My intuitive feeling is that there’s a change in mood and people are finally turning around to ask questions even in the northern states. Of course, the south had already been asking questions of Modi,” he said. Till late Sunday night, Facebook had not responded to an email and phone calls seeking comments on the action on the poet’s account. Malayalam author Benyamin said the action against Satchidanandan was a consequence of his writings having pounded the “cowards”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Fauci suggests vaccine as the only solution for India ||America’s top public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci said on Sunday that getting people vaccinated is the only long-term solution to the current Covid-19 crisis in India, as he called for scaling up manufacturing of coronavirus vaccines both domestically and globally to fight the deadly pandemic. “The endgame of this all... is going to be to get people vaccinated... India is the largest vaccine-producing country in the world. They’ve got to get their resources, not only from within, but also from without,” Fauci, who is the chief medical adviser to US President Joe Biden, told the ABC News in an interview. “That’s the reason why other countries need to chip in to be able to get either supplies to the Indians to make their own vaccines or to get vaccines donated. One of the ways to do that is to have the big companies that have the capability of making vaccines to really scale up in a great way to get literally hundreds of millions of doses to be able to get to them,” he said. Responding to a question, Dr Fauci said that India needs to immediately build makeshift field hospitals like what China did a year ago. “You’ve got to get that. You can’t have people out in the street not having a hospital bed. The oxygen situation is something that was really critical. I mean, to have people not have oxygen is really tragic, what’s going on over there,” he said. The 80-year-old physician and immunologist, who serves as the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said there is an immediate problem of hospital beds, oxygen, PPE and other supplies. “Then there’s the problem of looking forward to how are you going to shut this down, how are you going to turn it around, how are you going to break the chain of transmission?” he said, underlining the need for a countrywide lockdown to arrest the spread of the virus. “Vaccines is one of them but there are other ways too, like shutting down the government. I have advised them in the past that you really need to do that. You’ve got to shut down. I believe several of the Indian states have already done that, but you need to break the chain of transmission. And one of the ways to do that is to shut down,” the top American doctor said. Fauci, in an interview to PTI last week, had termed the situation in India “very desperate” and suggested that the government marshal all its resources, including the armed forces, to immediately build makeshift field hospitals, and urged other countries to help with not only materials but also personnel. He called for a nationwide lockdown “for a few weeks” to break the “continuity and transmission of infection”. He also recommended mass vaccination to arrest the current spread of the deadly disease across India. India is struggling with an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 4,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days. China reported the first Covid-19 case in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019 and since then the deadly disease has become a pandemic, affecting more than 157,789,300 people and over 3,285,200 deaths worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Actor-YouTuber dies despite seeking better Covid treatment from PM on Facebook||Actor-YouTuber Rahul Vohra died on Sunday at a hospital here due to Covid-19 complications, theatre director-playwright Arvind Gaur confirmed. Vohra, 35, had shared his coronavirus diagnosis earlier this week in a Facebook post. He was admitted at the Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, Tahirpur, and was shifted to Ayushman Hospital, Dwarka, on Saturday evening. Gaur confirmed the news of Vohra’s demise on Facebook. “Rahul Vohra is gone, my talented actor is no more. It was only yesterday that he told me his life could have been saved if he got better treatment. He was shifted to Ayushman, Dwarka last evening but we could not save him. Please forgive us, we are all your culprits. My last respects,” he wrote. On Saturday, Vohra in a Facebook post had tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and asked for better treatment. “If I would have got better treatment maybe I could be saved. (Mujhe bhi accha treatment mil jaata to mai bhi bach jaata),” Vohra had written.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Fourth Id in a lockdown for Kashmir||The Valley will be celebrating its fourth consecutive Id in a lockdown after the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced the extension of the pandemic-related curfew by a week till May 17. Id ul Fitr will fall on May 13 or 15 depending on the sighting of the moon. The Valley had to spend Id ul Zoha in August 2019 during a lockdown that had followed the scrapping of Article 370 that year. Id ul Fitr in May and Id ul Zoha in August last year took place amid the Covid-induced lockdown. A fresh curfew imposed earlier this month to stem an alarming spike in Covid cases will take the sheen off this year’s festival as well. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday ordered the extension of the curfew in all the 20 districts of the Union Territory by a week till May 17. Essential services, however, will continue as normal. “Corona Curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J-K till 7am on Monday, 10/5/21 is extended further by 7 days till 7am on Monday, 17/5/21. The curfew will be strict except for a few essential services,” the department of information and public relations said in a tweet. This implies that Id prayers are unlikely to be held at major mosques this time as well. Religious bodies have not yet reacted to the government order. In a separate order, the gathering permissible for marriages have been curtailed to 25 from 50 with effect from Sunday. The government had initially announced a 34-hour lockdown from 8pm on April 24 in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid cases last month. On April 29, the authorities imposed a curfew in 11 districts that was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day. The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 4,788 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally of infected persons to 2,11,742. The death toll in the region rose to 2,672 with a record 60 fatalities on Saturday. The Valley has spent the last two years, barring a brief occasional respite, in a full or partial lockdown that seems to have exacted a massive psychological toll besides wreaking havoc on the economy. The children have not been to schools in the past two years and have got little to celebrate on occasions like Id. Some politicians have welcomed the decision to extend the curfew, arguing it will help save lives “It is good that lockdown has been extended. There is little else u can do when the pandemic is ravaging across. Hoping we all stay safe and May Allah protect us all,” tweeted People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone. But with hardly any help coming from the government for the battered economy, many people expressed concern that it will further destroy lives. Hazratbal shopkeeper Abdul Hameed said the shopkeepers had invested huge amounts to purchase Id-related stocks. “With our shops shut, who will purchase our products? Instead of making some profit, we are incurring more losses,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid havoc at Aligarh Muslim University, call for scrutiny||Aligarh Muslim University has lost more than three dozen present and former teachers and other employees, including at least one doctor from the campus hospital, to Covid in the past one month. All of them – including the former teachers and the 16 serving teachers who died -- lived on the campus and its neighbourhood, university sources said. University honorary secretary Najmul Islam said one possible reason for the high toll could be the inflow of Covid patients at the on-campus J.N. Medical College and Hospital, the principal healthcare facility for Aligarh and surrounding districts. Islam, himself infected and in isolation at his campus quarters, told The Telegraph that no one from AMU had died during the first wave last year. Vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor on Sunday wrote to the Indian Council of Medical Research seeking an analysis of swab samples, to be sent from the campus, to establish whether any particular coronavirus variant was causing such severe disease. No deaths have been reported from among the medical students, who are the only students on the campus now. Shakeel Ahmed Samdani, dean of the faculty of law, died at the campus hospital on Saturday. Khalid Bin Yusuf, who held a PhD for his work on the Rig Veda, died on Wednesday. “Shadab Ahmad Khan, a doctor, and Rafiq-ul-Jaman Khan, a computer science professor, died of Covid at the hospital on Friday,” university spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said. Among the others to die of the infection were computer science professor and former proctor Jamshed Siddiqi, Sunni theology teacher Ehsan-Ullah Fahad, Urdu teacher Maulana Baksh Ansari, engineering teacher Mohammad Ali Khan, Arabic teacher Gufran Ahmad, English teacher Mohammad Yusuf Ansari, BEd teacher Nabi Ahmad and psychology teacher Sajid Ali Khan. Shoeb Jaheer, a doctor at J.N. Medical College, is being treated at a Delhi hospital while anaesthetist Hammad Usmani is being treated at the campus hospital. Many are under treatment in home isolation on the campus. “The campus hospital is the only one in Aligarh and adjoining districts that offers good infrastructure and treatment. So, a large number of infected people from four or five districts are coming here,” Najmul Islam said. “The hospital and the trauma centre are in one corner and the patients have to travel through the campus to reach them.” He expressed condolences over the deaths of AMU members and others not linked to the university. Asked why Banaras Hindu University did not face such a problem despite having a medical college on campus, he said: “I don’t know the numbers but coronavirus patients are dying everywhere. The AMU community is closely connected through several media and social groups, so news from here travels faster compared with any other university in India.” Vice-chancellor Mansoor’s letter to ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava says: “This is to bring to your notice that 16 serving faculty members of Aligarh Muslim University along with a number of retired teachers and other category of employees living on campus and adjoining localities have succumbed to Covid-19. “This is giving rise to suspicion that a particular viral variant may be circulating in the Civil Lines area of Aligarh in which AMU and many other adjoining localities are situated.” The letter requests an analysis of AMU samples to see what coronavirus variants are “circulating in Aligarh, which may be giving rise to greater severity of disease”. Some others connected to AMU have died of Covid outside Aligarh. Late VC Mahmood Ur Rahman’s wife Afshan Rahman passed away at the Jamia Hamdard hospital in Delhi last week. Sayyad Raja Haider, director of Delhi’s Ghalib Institute and a former AMU student, died two weeks ago at a Delhi hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Congress shines spotlight on ‘sunshine patriots’ ||The Congress on Sunday conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the entire nation had come together to fight the epidemic except for the “sunshine patriots” who have either gone into hiding or are obfuscating the truth and “communalising the situation”. A “sunshine patriot”, a term coined by the 18th-century political activist and theorist Thomas Paine, is one who claims to fight for his country when the going is good but turns his back on it when the situation gets tough. The Congress was clearly alluding to people who flaunt their patriotism and chant “Bharat Mata ki jai” in favourable times but disappear during crises. By alleging attempts to give a communal twist to the Covid situation, the party left no one in any doubt who its target was. The reference came in a letter that the leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran, Mallikarjun Kharge, wrote to Modi on Sunday. “Amidst this national crisis, it is truly heartening to see that we have come together as a people, irrespective of creed, caste or region,” he wrote. “Many state governments, Opposition parties, doctors/ nurses/ allied healthcare organisations, civil society and citizen groups have taken up the mantle and are working collectively on the frontlines in this extraordinary national battle against Covid-19.” Kharge added: “Unlike those sunshine patriots who are ignoring the situation or obfuscating the truth or apportioning blame or communalising the situation, all these conscientious organisations and people are working collectively in the national interest.” Then came a sting: “One of the reasons they are compelled to do so is (that) the Union government seems to have abdicated its duties towards the people.” The BJP and its supporters had brazenly lent a communal colour to Covid’s initial spread last year by blaming the Tablighi Jamaat. Recently, Tejashwi Surya, BJP Lok Sabha member from Karnataka, kicked up a storm over the recruitment of Muslims to help run the Bangalore civic body’s Covid helpline. The “patriots” of the Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad who often took out “Tiranga yatras” chanting “Bharat Mata ki jai” are invisible at a time millions of Indians are struggling to secure oxygen or hospital beds for Covid-infected friends and relatives. When visible or audible, Sangh parivar members are sending out bizarre messages that suggest they are out of touch with the reality of the situation and are tone deaf to the suffering of their compatriots. For instance, the RSS issued a statement recently cautioning people against “anti-Bharat forces” and commending the government for its good work. Reports suggest that the BJP’s ideological parent is organising a four-day event titled “Positivity Unlimited” to counter the “negativity” being spread in the name of Covid. The RSS and the BJP are yet to acknowledge the gravity of the situation while the spiralling death toll and the images of burning pyres that have taken up every inch of crematories and have spilled over onto parks have triggered worldwide concern. “It is heartbreaking to witness millions of ordinary Indians scrambling to access basic healthcare, oxygen, medicine, ventilators, hospital beds and even crematoriums and cemeteries,” Kharge wrote to the Prime Minister. “Ordinary Indians are selling their land, jewellery and expending their savings to ensure treatment for their loved ones. And despite all this, people are dying in hospitals, on roads, and in their own homes. Crematoriums and cemeteries are choked while parks are being repurposed as cremation grounds.” Kharge provided a few suggestions: “1. Convene an all-party (meeting) to draw a holistic blueprint to tackle the pandemic. 2. Use the Rs 35,000 crore allocated in the budget to run the vaccination programme instead of abdicating the moral obligation.... 3. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand vaccine production. 4. Waive taxes/ GST on life-saving medicine/ equipment. 5. Distribute the aid received (from) different countries in a transparent and efficient manner. “6. Extend the number of days (of work offered a year) in MGNREGA to 200 (from 100) to give employment to those who have returned to the villages because of lockdown in major cities 7. Leverage our collective strength by involving scientists, doctors, experts, NGOs in the plan instead of tackling the crisis through PMO alone.” In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chair M. Venkaiah Naidu, Kharge has asked that the parliamentary standing committees be allowed to resume their meetings through videoconferencing. He has underlined how the standing committee on health and family welfare had provided valuable suggestions about tackling the pandemic and sounded a timely alert on the second wave. Kharge has asked Naidu to seek an action-taken report on the recommendations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||How tests and scan helped catch and fight silent Covid||The latest guideline from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to stop relying on the RT-PCR test and instead rely on clinical diagnosis — that is, an evaluation of the symptoms of the patient — to determine whether they have Covid is a welcome move. Before Covid, doctors, at least in India, were judged by their ability to diagnose illness without subjecting patients to tests. However, led by World Health Organisation-directed public health experts, the Covid response from the start has been test-dependent. We have even been counting the number of days of illness not from the date of the onset of symptoms but from the date of the Covid test result. As a consequence, we have lost precious time in starting treatment for Covid patients — an almost criminal neglect given that this is a galloping disease that can have you choking to death in nine days flat. The overcrowding of the testing laboratories has meant that Covid tests have been delayed by up to four or five days, adding to the number of days of missed treatment. The ICMR must continue to work in this direction, developing guidelines for Covid treatment that are not test-heavy and allow the treatment to start quickly at home. An example of how not to proceed is provided by AIIMS director Randeep Guleria’s media statements over the last few days on Covid treatment. Based on a classification of cases into mild, moderate and severe, he announced that mild cases do not require blood tests or scans. “If you are in home isolation with mild illness, and oxygen saturation is good, there is no point (in doing a CT scan),”he is quoted as having said. He added that scans were to be avoided as they were exposing patients to radiation “equivalent to 300-400 chest X-rays”. He is also quoted as having said about blood tests for inflammatory markers that “A lot of people go for CRP, D-dimer, LDH, ferritin — all these tests. This is not needed for mild illness if home isolation with oxygen saturation is maintained.” He said: “Patients must undertake these tests only when they have moderate illness.” When Dr Guleria’s announcement came, I had just emerged, with my husband, from a case of silent Covid pneumonia where we had normal oxygen saturation and no breathlessness throughout our Covid illness, but scans showed the famous ground glass opacity of Covid in the lungs at around Day 6 (from the onset of symptoms), which nearly doubled in 3 days in both cases. X-rays, like pulse oximeters, have not been reliably identifying this silent pneumonia. Blood tests in this period showed highly elevated inflammatory markers for us both. So, in our case, at least, scans and tests — even though our condition appeared to be “mild” — enabled doctors to catch the silent pneumonia and intervene with treatment before the descent into oxygen deprivation, and at a time when there was not a single hospital bed available in the city. The Indian Radiological and Imaging Association has rebutted Dr Guleria in a scathing statement that terms his claims “alarming”, “unscientific” and “irresponsible”. It has stressed the usefulness of scans in identifying the latent progress of the disease. It has also underlined, rather shockingly, that Dr Guleria’s information about scan machines is outdated by 30 to 40 years, and stated that “modern CT scanners use ultra low dose CT which has radiation comparable to only 5-10 X-rays”. The relief of emerging from this strangely deceptive disease, where you appear virtually symptomless for several days while it is silently blocking your lungs and thickening your blood, dissipated like a puff of smoke with news of people in their 40s, like me and my husband, dying of Covid after having appeared to be mild cases. Many cases had not received any early treatment at all. For one year we had all been told to do nothing other than “isolate” if we fell ill with Covid. The only medical advice was to report to hospital if oxygen saturation levels fell below 92. We were told that we could have “mild”, “moderate” or “severe” Covid, as though these were water-tight compartments and not a progression that might swiftly and covertly be going on inside the body. There are a range of symptoms and syndromes associated with Covid, the most dangerous of which is hyper-inflammation. Also termed the “cytokine storm”, at the start it can give very little outward signs. Currently, doctors are identifying it by the build-up of various elements in the blood such as D-dimers, interleukin 6, C-reactive proteins and ferritin, among others, testing for which Dr Guleria objects to in the so-called “mild” versus “moderate” cases. It’s a distinction that crumbles as “mild” silently progresses to “moderate” in the body. The only way to control Covid-induced hyper-inflammation that doctors have till now found is by giving anti-coagulants and steroids. But Dr Guleria announced that “in mild illness, there is no role for anticoagulants”. He also claimed that the early use of steroids was leading in many cases to mild cases “becoming” severe, and that “patients are reporting severe pneumonia”. Dr Guleria blames this on steroid use in the first five days. If steroids are being given in the first five days, that would indeed be wrong for the reasons of viral replication in that period as stated by Dr Guleria. But are patients getting any treatment at all in the first five days? When Dr Guleria made these statements, in Delhi, RT-PCR tests were taking that long to come in or were giving false early negatives. The disease has such a stealthy onset that people don’t even know that they are ill for much of the first 5 days. So the likelihood of masses of patients being given steroids in this period is at least questionable. The sudden plunge from mild to serious Covid in this second wave in a significant subset of patients has had everyone puzzled. At the current state of knowledge and given the speed of this disease, we are scrambling to use what we have — blood tests, scans, anticoagulants and steroids. This is not ideal, but Dr Guleria has to give us alternatives when objecting to their use. He needs to give realistic and compassionate advice. We have suffered enough. Delhi has run out of doctors to tele-consult with for Covid. An attempt by this writer in New Delhi to gather a list of doctors around India for tele-consultation yielded only 14 doctors. Doctors report receiving hundreds of calls daily and having lakhs of messages piling up. In late April, private hospitals running home care packages said they had run out of capacity to register any more patients. The irony of Dr Guleria’s pronouncements was that there were no doctors to prescribe scans and blood tests. And even if you got a prescription for a test, the laboratories were getting jammed. All major blood-testing laboratories had a waiting time of at least three days. Enough time to get a stroke from an internal cytokine storm. The cost of the scan to which Dr Guleria objects puts its own brakes on how many will be done. As Covid spreads to our poorer communities, we will see a collapse of treatment, not merely because of a lack of hospital infrastructure but because no one can afford pulse oximeter and thermometer-based diagnosis. So much for testing. So Dr Guleria is right, but for the wrong reasons. Test-based Covid treatment is dangerous because tests are simply not available or accessible at the speed required to treat this disease. You need to develop a treatment protocol that does not rely on laboratory tests or scans. You need to draw on clinical evaluation, but bearing in mind that not everyone can find a doctor. This is not something radical for the medical community. Over time, medication for most communicable diseases does become standardised. Aren’t we treating tuberculosis through Anganwadi centres in this way? People are given their pills to take at home for nine months. This is what the ICMR must do as a first priority. It is a challenging task, as there is still so much to learn about Covid, which keeps changing and surprising us. But this is the task. We have to come up with a realistic and humane protocol that uses minimal testing; we have to find an indicator for lung function apart from (or better yet, beyond) oxygen saturation levels as shown by the pulse oximeter; and we have to keep everything open-ended, given the changing disease. Those leading us out of this pandemic have to acknowledge the radical uncertainty of the times and stop grabbing at comforting but ultimately wrong and misleading assumptions. They have to acknowledge that a novel disease needs novel thinking, and that some of the old rules may need to be more honoured in the breach than the observance for a while. We are in a battle of wits against this virus, folks. We need to start thinking hard, fast and furious. As if our life depended on it, because it does. Suranya Aiyar is an activist with a background in law and mathematics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Union minister complains to Yogi Adityanath about Covid management in Bareilly||Union minister Santosh Gangwar has complained to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath about the Covid-19 management in Bareilly, saying officials don’t take calls and government health centres send back patients for “referrals” from the district hospital. In a letter to the CM of the BJP-run state, the Union labour minister has also complained about the “big shortage” of empty oxygen cylinders and the high prices of medical equipment in his Lok Sabha constituency. The letter was handed over to Adityanath during his visit to Bareilly on Saturday. “There are cases in which the patient despite taking a referral and going to the government hospital is asked to go back to the district hospital and get the referral done again,” the Union minister said. “Due to this, the condition of the patient is deteriorating and this is a matter of concern. In this scenario, it is very necessary that the Covid-19 patients are immediately admitted to the referral hospitals in the least possible time,” Gangwar wrote. The Union minister complained that various equipment such as multipara monitors and ventilators are being sold in the market at 1.5 times than the original price. He urged the government to fix prices of the equipment. Gangwar also requested that arrangements should be made so that Covid-19 patients could be admitted to private hospitals, which should be given facilities similar to Covid hospitals. The Union minister complained that some prominent officials related to the medical field do not take phone calls, causing inconvenience to patients. He also said there is a shortage of empty oxygen cylinders in Bareilly. The main reason for this is that many people in the city have kept oxygen cylinders in their homes as a precautionary measure and these are being sold at high rates, he said. The administration should identify such persons and initiate action against them, the minister added. The Union minister said 50 per cent discount should be given in the purchase of medical equipment on the lines of Madhya Pradesh. He also demanded setting up of an oxygen plant to meet the shortage of the life-saving gas. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi government extends curfew till May 17||The curfew in Delhi has been extended for a week till May 17 during which Metro train services will also remain suspended. In a webcast on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “In the past two-three days, the (Covid) positivity ratio has come down to 23 per cent from the earlier 35 per cent.” He added: “We have used this lockdown period to strengthen our health resources and infrastructure. New oxygen beds were prepared in many places. The biggest problem that Delhi faced was shortage of oxygen. More than normal oxygen came to be required by the hospitals since most of the Covid patients required oxygen. In the past few days, with the central government’s help and based on the directions by the Supreme Court and high court, the oxygen situation has improved. Now one does not have to listen to such things that only two hours of oxygen are left in one hospital and half an hour of oxygen left in the other, or that someone may die because of shortage of oxygen.” The capital has been under a lockdown since April 20 with several exemptions, including weddings with up to 50 attendees. This exemption has been further restricted to weddings inside homes or courts with no more than 20 people present. Delhi’s vaccination drive—covering over a lakh recipients a day — has attracted residents of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and the capital’s stocks may run out this week.  “There is a scarcity in vaccine stock. We’ve asked the Centre for assistance,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Fires don’t stop at lonely but public funerals ||The lifeless are picked up from infected homes by exhausted volunteers, piled into ambulances by hospital workers or carried in the back of auto-rickshaws by grieving relatives. At the cremation grounds, where the fires only briefly cool off late at night, relatives wait hours for their turn to say goodbye. The scenes are photographed, filmed, broadcast. They are beamed to relatives across India. They are shown on news sites and newspapers around the world. Local residents record the fires from their roofs to show the world why they must wear masks even inside their homes. The smoke and smell of death is so constant, so thick, that it covers the narrow lanes for much of the day, seeping through shuttered windows. The flames bear witness to the devastation wrought by India’s Covid-19 crisis. They show the losses in a country where the dead and infected are widely believed to be grossly undercounted. They stand as a rebuke to a government accused of mismanagement by many of its people. Beyond the images, the cremation grounds bear a painful routine of trauma that will weigh on families long after the headlines fade. The pandemic has stripped the final rites of their usual space and dignity. Instead, this intimate ritual has become both a public display, with the world watching India’s crisis, and a lonely burden. Traditionally, relatives would gather to share their grief. Now, fear of infection keeps most loved ones away — or, in some cases, all of them. “I couldn’t even show my family members those last moments,” said Mittain Panani, a 46-year-old businessman. He and his brother were the only attendees at his father’s cremation in Mumbai last week. His mother remained in the hospital with her own infection. “You could have everything: money, power, influence,” he said. “Even with that, you could do nothing.” The virus has spread so fast that no corner of the country remains unaffected. “I used to get six to eight bodies each day before the pandemic,” Jitender Singh Shunty, the founder of a volunteer organisation that runs the Seemapuri cremation grounds in eastern New Delhi, said last week. “Now, I am getting around 100 bodies every day for cremation.” Through his organisation, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal, the former businessman has been providing free or discounted cremations for the poor for 25 years. During the day, Shunty helps ferry bodies and arrange cremations, changing his protective gown, masks and gloves dozens of times. At night, he sleeps in his car — his own wife and two sons are sick at home. Three drivers are down with the virus. His manager is in intensive care. “But there are about 16 of us still left, and we are working day and night,” he said. “It’s 8.30am. I have received 22 calls for picking up bodies already.” Families are instructed to collect the ashes right away, to avoid mix-ups. “Flames rising from pyres, people wearing P.P.E. and everyone covered in plastic — it felt like the end of the world,” said Dimple Kharbanda, a movie producer who flew to New Delhi last week from Mumbai to arrange the final rites for her father, Dharamvir Kharbanda. Kharbanda, a retired businessman, had not had Covid-19, but his rites were blighted by the pandemic. His daughter begged relatives, including her father’s sister in a neighbouring state, not to come to Delhi because of the danger of infection. The sister, Poonam Sikri, watched the funeral on a family video call. “When I watched his cremation on the phone, I felt a part of my body was being removed. I wanted to caress his head and rub his face and hug him one last time. I could not do that.” For families of Covid-19 victims, the cremation ground can be the last stop of a harrowing ordeal, after dragging their sick from hospital to hospital in search of a bed, after lining up for hours for oxygen. Before the body of Darwan Singh arrived at Seemapuri — the token given to his family indicated that he was No. 41 in line — the family had done all they could to save the 56-year-old guesthouse guard. His fever had persisted. His oxygen level had dropped to a dangerous 42 per cent. For two days, the family could find him neither a hospital bed nor an oxygen cylinder. When they found one, said his nephew, Kuldeep Rawat, he received oxygen for one hour before the hospital ran out. The family took Singh home for the night. The next day, they waited for five hours in the parking lot of another hospital. The family paid a bribe of about Rs 5,000 to get his uncle a bed at a free government hospital, Rawat said. Singh died overnight. With Seemapuri fully booked, the hospital couldn’t immediately hand over the body. On April 25, it was piled onto an ambulance with five others and taken there. Rawat said he had to go inside the ambulance to identify his uncle, then move him inside the crematory, where they waited for five hours before his turn at the pyre. Rawat said his uncle’s family — mother, wife, daughter, son — was infected. Relatives could not come to the house for mourning and offered their condolences by phone. “And I am still in isolation,” Rawat said, fearing he had been infected during the final rites. For families living around the crematories, there is no escaping the constant reminder of death. In Sunlight Colony, a mix of shanty homes and apartments where some of the houses share a wall with Seemapuri, smoke is so constant that many are forced to wear masks inside. Children are given hot water to gargle before bedtime. Laundry is dried indoors. “Our kitchen is upstairs — it’s unbearable in there,” said Waseem Qureishi, whose mother and six siblings live in a two-bedroom house still under construction next to Seemapuri. Anuj Bhansal, an ambulance driver who lives near the Ghazipur crematory, also in eastern New Delhi, said as the cremations reached as many as 100 a day, the neighbourhood’s children would run to a nearby garbage hill and watch. “When they look at flames and smoke coming out of the cremation ground, they ask why it is not ending,” Bhansal said. The New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Union minister Pratap Sarangi injured in an accident near the Nilagiri area||Union minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Pratap Sarangi sustained minor injuries on his nose as the Innova car in which he was travelling collided with a tractor near Podasula Chhak in the Nilagiri area, about 5km away from his residence in Balasore district on Sunday. Sarangi’s PA and driver also sustained injuries. The minister’s condition is stated to be normal. Officials said the accident took place around 3pm. Sarangi, who is the sitting MP from Balasore, was going to meet the family members of a person who died near his village. There was no pilot car accompanying his vehicle. The tractor, which was coming from the opposite direction on the single lane road, hit his car head on when both the drivers tried to cross each other. The minister was immediately taken to the local hospital and was released after being given first aid. “Due to the grace of Lord Jagannath and the blessings of my revered mother  and good wishes of my people I escaped with minor injuries. I am now fine. My PA, PSO and driver are also fine,” Sarangi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
10-05-2021||India|| Odisha launches telemedicine services as Covid cases rise||The Odisha government has launched telemedicine services for people under home isolation, battling to contain the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases and meet the rising demand for beds in hospitals. It has also advised people not to come to hospitals looking for beds until and unless the situation demands so. Secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra said: “We have launched the telemedicine for management of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The tele service is now available in all the district hospitals, Capital Hospital (Bhubaneswar), Medical College and Hospital and other major hospitals. We have no dearth of medicines but people should take the benefit of the telemedicine facilities.” The Covid-19 situation has reached alarming proportions in the state with reports of another 10 people dying in the past 24 hours and the total number of fatalities reaching 2,017. The state also witnessed the highest ever-single day increase in coronavirus cases with report of 8,386 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases in the state stands at 428,515. Though the registration for vaccination has begun from Wednesday, the government made it clear that vaccination for the age group of 18 to 45 will not kick off from May 1. “We do have our mechanism ready for the inoculation. The vaccination programme depends on the supplies of vaccines,” said Bijay Panigrahi, director of health and family welfare. Panigrahi also gave indications of the community transmission of the disease likely to hit the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack as people are not adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines. “The rate of infection is taking an upward trend rapidly in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. This is mainly because of people coming to these cities from Covid hotspot states and areas. There are chances that others may be infected because of them. All need to adhere to the principle of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It’s better not to unnecessarily move outside,” warned Panigrahi. The state has already placed orders for the Covishield and Covaxin and earmarked Rs 2,000 crore for the immunisation programme. It has projected that Covid-19 cases would cross the 2 lakh mark by May 15 and the number of ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders will go up. The state government has also issued SOP for the use of oxygen. “An audit of safety of oxygen use by the ICU, HDU (high dependency unit) and general bed should be done by the clinical team leader on a daily basis,” officials said. However, the social stigma associated with coronavirus continues. A woman was admitted to Balikuda Covid care centre after testing positive for Covid-19 but she fled from the centre. Later, she was brought back. In Odisha’s Deogarh district, municipal workers took the body of a Covid-19 positive person in a cart for cremation as none of the family members or villagers touched the body fearing infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
