11-05-2021||India||Sachin Waze, arrested in Ambani security scare case, dismissed by Mumbai Police||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze, arrested by the NIA in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, was on Tuesday dismissed from police service, an official said. The order terminating Waze's service was issued by Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, said a spokesperson of the city police. A 1990-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre, Waze, also known as an "encounter cop", was earlier suspended after his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the SUV-cum-murder case on March 13. "API Sachin Hindurao Waze has been dismissed from police service. Order has been issued today under Provision of 311(2)(B) Constitution of India by Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai," a top official said. Waze was reinstated in the Mumbai police in June 2020 after being suspended for 16 years in a case related to the alleged custodial death of a bomb blast accused. Post-reinstatement, he was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch and handling high-profile cases, including the fake TRP case, fake social media followers case, the DC car finance scam and the Ambani security scare case. Waze came under the scanner for his alleged involvement in the Ambani security scare case, where scores of gelatine sticks (explosives) inside an abandoned car near the business tycoon’s residence was discovered earlier. The NIA, which took over the probe, had arrested him in the case. He is currently in judicial custody in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
11-05-2021||India||Delhi has run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group, says AAP MLA||Delhi has run out of Covaxin stock for people in the 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where the coronavirus vaccine was being administered, AAP MLA Atishi said on Tuesday. In an online briefing, she also said Delhi will get 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre by Tuesday evening. "We have run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where it is being administered after Tuesday evening," Atishi said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader urged the Centre to replenish Covaxin and Covishield stocks and said otherwise "we will have no option but to stop vaccination drive". She said that more than 1.39 lakh people were given vaccine jabs in the national capital on May 10, the highest daily figure since the inoculation started. Notably, the Centre on Tuesday announced that the states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. "More than 90 lakh COVID Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said. States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days. The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing COVID vaccines free of cost to states and UTs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
11-05-2021||India|| More bodies flow into Bihar from UP, authorities fish them out from Ganges||The Bihar government on Tuesday said altogether 71 bodies have been fished out from the Ganges in Buxar district, where these were found floating in the river, triggering suspicion that the abandoned corpses could be those of Covid-19 patients. State Water Resources Minister Sanjay Kumar, a key aide of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, came out with a series of tweets, asserting that the bodies had flown downstream from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. "The Bihar government is seized over the unfortunate case of floating mortal remains in river Ganga... The bodies have floated into Bihar from UP," said Jha, adding, doctors have confirmed upon post-mortem that the deaths had taken place "four-five days" ago. He said the chief minister was pained at both the tragedy as well as the "harm" to river Ganga. "He has always been particular about the purity and uninterrupted flow of the river and has asked the administration to intensify patrolling to ensure this is not repeated. "Last rites of 71 bodies performed as per protocols. A net has been placed in the Ganges in Ranighat, bordering UP and Bihar. We have advised the UP administration to be vigilant. Our administration is keeping vigil, too. Advise all to give respect to the dead and also to Maa Ganga," Jha added. A large number of bloated corpses were seen floating in the river bed in the Chausa block of Buxar district on Monday, triggering shock waves. Though some news channels claimed these were of Covid-19 patients who might have been abandoned by resource-starved family members or dumped by callous officials, the local administration had strongly denied the same, asserting that none of the deceased was a local resident, and the bodies had flown downstream from adjoining UP districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
11-05-2021||India||States to receive 7 lakh additional vaccine doses in next 3 days: Centre||More than 90 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Centre has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses (18,00,03,160) to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 17,09,71,429 doses. "More than 90 lakh COVID Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said. States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days. The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing COVID vaccines free of cost to states and UTs. Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination has started from 1st May 2021. In the strategy it is made clear that every month only 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. The Centre would continue to procure its share of 50 per cent of the monthly CDL cleared vaccines and would continue to make it available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier. The Centre also asked the states to prioritise second dose. Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary and R S Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat COVID-19 and NEGVAC member reviewed the status of Covid vaccination with Health Secretaries and NHM MDs of states and UTs, through a video conference. After a detailed presentation highlighting various aspects of the vaccination drive with state specific data, the Union Health Secretary highlighted that states are to ensure all beneficiaries who have taken the first dose are prioritised for the second doses. The urgent need to address large number of beneficiaries waiting for 2nd dose was stressed, said government. "In this regard, states can reserve at least 70% of the vaccines supplied to them from Government of India channel (free of cost) for second dose vaccination and remaining 30% for first dose. This however is indicative. States have the liberty to enhance this to as much as 100%. State wise numbers on CoWIN have been shared with states for their planning purposes. States have been informed in a transparent manner in advance about the COVID vaccines being provided to them from Govt of India channel. The visibility for the forthcoming fortnight is conveyed to them in advance to enable better and more effective planning by them. The next allocation for the period 15-31th May will be conveyed to them on 14th May. It was pointed out that states can utilize the information regarding dose allocation for next 15 days to plan their vaccination sessions," said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in a statement.  An early trend of decline in daily new COVID-19 cases and deaths has been noted in the country, the government said on Tuesday, indicating that the devastating second wave of the pandemic is on the wane. According to the government, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh were among 18 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new COVID-19 cases.

Addressing a press conference, a senior official, however, said Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Punjab were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new COVID-19 cases.

Thirteen states have more than 1 lakh active COVID-19 cases each and 26 states have a positivity rate of over 15 per cent, the government said.

India has been reeling under a calamitous second wave of the coronavirus infection. However, the daily numbers of deaths and infections have started to go down.

New cases of coronavirus in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days, taking the infection tally to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.

A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.

After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,15,221, accounting for 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
11-05-2021||India||Kejriwal asks Centre to share vaccine formula with other companies to scale up production||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday suggested that the Centre share the anti-COVID-19 vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other companies in the country to scale up production. Kejriwal said there is a shortage of vaccine across the country and an urgent need to ramp up its manufacturing on war footing while developing a national policy to inoculate everyone in the next few months. "Only two companies are producing vaccines. They produce only six to seven crore a month. This way, it will take over two years to vaccinate everyone... many waves will have come by then. It is important to increase vaccine production and frame a national plan," Kejriwal said. He said the Centre should ensure that all the vaccine manufacturing plants in the country start producing COVID doses. "... several companies should be deployed to produce vaccines. Centre should collect the formula from these two and give it to the others so they can produce vaccines safely," he added. The two COVID vaccine manufacturers can be provided royalty for use of their formula by other companies, he said. "The centre has the power to do this in these difficult times," he stressed, writing to the PM, "every Indian should be vaccinated in the next few months and we are ready to play every role". "We're administering 1.25 lakh doses every day. We'll begin vaccinating over three lakh every day. We aim to vaccinate all residents within three months but we're facing shortage," the Chief Minister said. He said scaling up vaccine production is needed to vaccinate everyone before the onset of the next wave of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
11-05-2021||India||ED files money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged "bribery" case, official sources said on Tuesday. They said the case registered under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been filed after studying a CBI FIR that was filed against Deshmukh late last month. The central probe agency may now summon Deshmukh, 71, for questioning apart from others who have a role in the case, they said. The ED case comes about after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry, followed by filing a regular case, on the orders of the Bombay High Court that asked it to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. The agency will probe if illicit funds were generated in the transfer and posting of police personnel in Maharashtra and if illegal extortion was done by the cops as alleged by Singh in his complaint. The agency has powers to attach assets of the accused during the investigation stage and later file charge sheets against them before a PMLA court for trial. Singh was shunted out from the prime post after the role of policeman Sachin Waze surfaced during investigation of the explosive-laden SUV that was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after he was removed from the Police Commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai. NCP leader Deshmukh was the home minister of the state in the MVA government headed by Thackeray. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty". "The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra, Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR had alleged. The CBI enquiry found Waze, assistant inspector of Mumbai police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of service for more than 15 years. Waze was entrusted with some of the most sensational and important cases of Mumbai city and Deshmukh was in knowledge of the said fact, the CBI FIR alleged. It alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials and thereby exercising undue influence over the performance of official duties by the officials, it claimed. After registering the FIR on April 21, the CBI had also carried out searches in Mumbai and Nagpur at premises linked to the former minister who had resigned after the high court had ordered a CBI probe against him in connection with this case. Deshmukh had told reporters after the searches that he cooperated with the CBI officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Nadda accuses Congress of creating panic in fight against Covid-19||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday accused the Congress of "misleading" people and creating "false panic" in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, and alleged that the conduct of its leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, will be remembered for "duplicity and pettiness". Nadda wrote a four-page letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, a day after the Congress Working Committee hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over the handling of the coronavirus crisis. The BJP president also accused Congress leaders, including a chief minister, of trying to actively create vaccine hesitancy during the once-in-a-century pandemic. Under Modi, the fight against the pandemic is driven by unwavering belief in science, support to innovation, trust in COVID warriors and cooperative federalism, he said. Nadda said he is saddened but not surprised by the conduct of the Congress during these challenging times. The CWC had said that Modi must "atone for his mistakes" and serve the people instead of carrying on with his "personal agenda" oblivious to the sufferings all around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||India records 3.29 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,876 casualties in 24 hours||New cases of coronavirus in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days taking the total tally of COVID-19 infections to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,15,221 comprising 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,90,27,304, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,56,00,187 samples have been tested up to May 10 with 18,50,110 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,876 new fatalities include 596 from Karnataka, 549 from Maharashtra, 319 from Delhi, 278 from Uttar Pradesh, 232 from Tamil Nadu, 198 from Punjab, 172 from Chhattisgarh, 168 from Uttarakhand, 161 from Haryana, 160 from Rajasthan, 134 from West Bengal, 129 from Jharkhand, 117 from Gujarat. A total of 2,49,992 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 76,398 from Maharashtra, 19,663 from Delhi, 19,372 from Karnataka, 15,880 from Tamil Nadu, 15,742 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,461 from West Bengal, 10,742 from Chhattisgarh and 10,704 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Kerala's legendary Communist leader KR Gowri Amma passes away||Legendary Marxist firebrand and former minister K R Gowri, one of the founding leaders of the Communist movement in Kerala and the lone woman member in the state's first cabinet, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday. She was 102 and had been suffering from various age-related ailments for some time, party sources said. The chief of Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS), the veteran politician breathed her last at 7 am while undergoing treatment in the ICU, they said. One of the most powerful and tallest women leaders of Kerala politics, Gowri Amma, as she was fondly called, belonged to the erstwhile Communists who had toiled hard to build up the Left movement in the southern state battling police brutality under the colonial regime and stiff opposition from the then administrators. Her vibrant political activism, fierce fights against the feudal system, strong stand taken for the women cause and exceptional administrative acumen have garnered her the nickname 'iron lady' and helped her carve an exclusive space in the male-dominated politics of Kerala. She was the lone surviving member of the first Kerala legislative assembly headed by legendary Communist leader EMS Namboothiripad in 1957 and the only woman in the first state cabinet. As the Revenue Minister in the Namboothiripad's ministry, Gowri Amma played a key role in bringing the revolutionary Agrarian Relations Bill,which set the ceiling on the amount of land a family could own, paving the way for the landless farmers to claim excess land. She was married to late Communist leader late TV Thomas, who was also her cabinet colleague. After the split in the Communist Party in 1964, Gowri joined the CPI(Marxist), while her husband remained with the CPI. Born on July14, 1919 in the sleepy Pattanakkad village of coastal Alappuzha to K A Ramanan and Parvathy Amma, Gowri was attracted to politics at ayoung age. She was jailed in 1948, the year she joined the Communist party and defied adversities and fought many odds to build the party. Gowri, who never minced words to put her thoughts across, was elected to the Travancore-Cochin legislative assembly in 1952 and 1954. After her successful foray to the state legislature in 1957 from Cherthala in Alappuzha, there was no looking back. She represented Cherthala in 1960 also after which she moved to Aroor and represented the constituency in the assembly eight terms from 1967-2006. The woman leader served as a member of various communist governments -- 1957, 1967, 1980 and 1987 and was also a member of A K Antony and Oommen Chandy governments from 2001-2006. She was the longest serving MLA after late K M Mani. During the 1987 elections, though she was projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate, she was allegedly sidelined by the Marxist party which preferred E K Nayanar for the top post. A fighter and a rebel throughout her life, Gowri did not mind floating a new political outfit- Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS)- from the scratch after being expelled from the CPI(M) in 1994. She had also the distinction of being the first woman law student from the Ezhava community. She was involved with the Kerala Karshaka Sangham and Kerala Mahila Sangham also. She had celebrated her 101st birthday in June 2019 and various politicians, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had flocked to her residence in Alappuzha to greet her. Meanwhile, cutting across party lines, condolence poured in from various corners of the country expressing deep grief over the woman leader's demise and hailing her contributions. In his condolence message, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said Gowri Amma, with her extraordinary courage and inspiring leadership, was a perfect symbol of women empowerment. "K R Gowri's struggles to ensure social justice and her contributions to land reforms and industrial growth in Kerala will always be gratefully remembered. May her soul attain Mukti," he said. Pinarayi Vijayan termed Gowri as a brave woman who had made her own life a heroic story of the liberation struggle of the land. A courageous fighter and an able administrator, she had played an unparalleled role in building up the Communist movement in Kerala, he said in his message. 'Kerala has always seen her as the symbol of valour... She was a person who had fought and established that woman has her own face and identity. It was the Communist movement that had given her strength that time," Vijayan said.

Congress leader Rahul Gandhi remembered her as a "tall presence in Kerala's politics". "My heartfelt condolences to the family of K R Gowri Amma ji. A tall presence in Kerala's politics, she remains a source of inspiration to many. Paying homage to her brilliant life journey," he tweeted. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said Gowri Amma was one of the true revolutionaries of Indian politics and she should have been the state's first woman Chief Minister. "What a rebel and what a personality she was! The time I spent with her some years back was most memorable. A Comrade who dared to take on her Comrades. She should have been Kerala's first woman CM," he tweeted. Senior BJP leader and union minister V Muraleedharan said Gowri was able to make her own space in politics at a time when women were not active in the public sphere. "She was not ready to bow her head down even when she was victimised for male dominance and caste hatred within the Communist party," he said in his condolence message. Former defence minister A K Antory, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, BJP state chief K Surendran were among the several leaders who expressed condolences. Her mortal remains were kept for a brief public homage at Ayyankali Hall here, adhering to COVID protocol. A host of personalities from various walks of life including Governor and Chief Minister arrived at the hall and paid rich tributes to the iconic leader. The cremation would be held late in the evening at her home district Alappuzha, sources added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre piggybacks states on free vaccination||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that “all citizens of all age groups will get free vaccination throughout the country”. Then came the catch in the Centre’s  affidavit: the reason for the magnanimity is “all the state governments have announced free vaccination for the population group of 18-44 years”. However, regardless of the claim about free vaccine for “all citizens”, the affidavit said in a different paragraph that many would be paying for the jab at private hospitals. The official declaration came at a time several leaders, including Mamata Banerjee and Rahul Gandhi, have repeatedly appealed to the Prime Minister to make the vaccination free across the country. If the court allows the Centre to stick to the stand articulated in the affidavit, the cash-strapped states will have to bear the cost of vaccinating most Indians. The Centre’s vaccination policy also allows private hospitals to buy and administer the vaccines, and the manufacturers to set the prices which many have complained are too high. “It is however submitted that this price factor will not have any impact on the ultimate beneficiary, namely, the eligible person getting the vaccine since all state governments have already declared their policy decision that each state will be administering vaccine to its residents free of cost,” the Centre’s affidavit said. “It is also submitted that citizens of 18 to 44 years are getting vaccination free of cost as all the state governments have announced free vaccination for this population group of 18-44 years. Thus, all citizens of all age groups will get free vaccination throughout the country.” However, in the same breath, the affidavit says: “Those who choose to be vaccinated and can pay the price can go to private hospitals.” It adds that this option will “facilitate better access and will reduce the operational stress on the government vaccination facilities as those who can afford to pay and prefer to go to a private hospital would not come to government vaccination facilities reducing the crowd....” With the manufacturers now charging private hospitals Rs 600 (Covishield) and Rs 1,200 (Covaxin) per dose, and with the hospitals expected to add a further charge, people will be shelling out a far larger sum than the Rs 250 they were paying before May 1. Till April 30, the Centre was buying the entire vaccine stocks from the manufacturers and providing the doses free to the states, which administered free jabs to priority groups such as healthcare and frontline workers and those aged 45 or above. However, to ease the burden on their hospitals, the states were free to supply a part of the consignments to private hospitals, which charged people Rs 250 per dose and paid the Centre Rs 150 per dose. Therefore, millions of people aged 45 and above have already paid for their jab. Since May 1, the Centre has opened up vaccination for all adults. Under its new policy, it buys half the vaccine produced and provides it free to the states to inoculate those aged 45 or above. The remaining half has to be bought by the states and private hospitals from the manufacturers. Controversially, the manufacturers have been allowed set a differential pricing. The Serum Institute of India has set the Centre a price of Rs 150 per dose of Covishield while the states are being charged Rs 300 and private hospitals Rs 600, and Covaxin-maker Bharat Biotech has set prices of Rs 150, Rs 400 and Rs 1,200, respectively. Serum later said the Centre would be charged for subsequent doses at the same rate (Rs 300 per dose) as the states. While the states, left in the lurch by the Centre, have decided to vaccinate everyone free, those going to the private hospitals will be paying a hefty sum. In the affidavit, the Centre has justified the higher price for the states and claimed credit for getting each company to charge the states a uniform price. “Due to consultations and ‘persuasion’ by the central government both the manufacturers of vaccine, Bharat Biotech and SII, have declared their respective prices which are uniform for all state governments,” the affidavit said. “It is pertinent to note that the central government by nature of its large vaccination programme, places large purchase orders for vaccines as opposed to the state governments and/ or private hospitals and therefore, this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated.” It added: “Thus, while it is ensured that the two vaccine manufacturers are not unduly enriched out of public money, the citizens are not supposed to make any payment for getting both dose of the vaccine.” The affidavit does not explain how the companies will not be “enriched”, nor, after everything that went before, how the citizens “are not supposed to make any payment”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre rules out immediate application of legal provision to increase vaccine production||The Centre on Monday virtually ruled out any immediate application of a legal provision that would have increased the production of Covid vaccines and life-saving drugs amid a shortage and helped lower their prices at a time the country is reeling under a resurgent pandemic. It urged the Supreme Court to keep off the subject of the pricing of Covid vaccines and anti-viral drugs, and suggested that waiving intellectual property (IP) protection and granting compulsory licences to more manufacturers to boost production would be a “last resort”. The government contended that the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech had taken a “financial risk” in developing the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, respectively, and warned the top court that “any overzealous” judicial intervention would lead to “unforeseen and unintended consequences”. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, before whose virtual court the affidavit had been listed on Monday, could not take the matter up because of technical glitches and adjourned the hearing till Thursday. Currently, Serum and Bharat Biotech enjoy a monopoly on manufacturing Covishield and Covaxin, courtesy their patent rights. Similarly, certain other companies have patent rights over anti-viral drugs like favipiravir, remdesivir and ivermectin that are often used to treat Covid patients. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the Bengal government, several civil rights groups and some business chambers have sought compulsory licensing on these vaccines and drugs to meet the shortage the country faces. On April 30, the apex court had asked the Centre whether it had considered such a move, allowed under Sections 92 and 100 of the Patents Act, 1970. The Doha Declaration on Trade Related Intellectual Properties (Trips) too allows World Trade Organisation (WTO) countries to waive patent rights in matters of health emergencies and opt for compulsory licensing. But the Centre’s affidavit asked the apex court to keep its hands off the matter and suggested that using these emergency powers could hurt the country. America’s Joe Biden administration had, however, last week announced its support for waivers of IP protection for Covid vaccines. “In the context of a global pandemic, where the response and strategy of the nation is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, there is even little room for judicial interference,” said the affidavit, filed through Govind Mohan, additional secretary with the home ministry. “Any overzealous, though well-meaning, judicial intervention may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving the doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go.” The Centre said that companies like Bharat Biotech and Serum “have taken financial risk in developing and manufacturing these vaccines and it is prudent to take decisions on pricing through negotiations in a transparent consultative process keeping statutory provisions as a last resort under the present circumstances”.     It said it intended to solve the problem of vaccine and drug shortage through “diplomatic efforts”. “When there is a surge in cases and in demand of patented medicines/ drugs/ vaccines from all over the world the solution needs to be found out essentially at an executive level engaging at diplomatic levels,” the affidavit said. “Any exercise of statutory powers either under the Patents Act 1970 read with Trips agreement and Doha declaration or in any other way can only prove to be counterproductive at this stage; the central government is very actively engaging itself with global organisations at a diplomatic level to find out a solution in the best possible interest of India. “It is earnestly urged that any discussion or a mention of exercise of statutory powers either for essential drugs or vaccines having patent issues would have serious, severe and unintended adverse consequences in the (country's) efforts, being made on global platform using all its resources.” The Centre has claimed the main constraint now is the availability of raw materials and essential inputs. It has cited the example of remdesivir, saying it has given licences to seven companies to manufacture the anti-viral drug. “Therefore, any additional permissions and licences may not result in increased production immediately. It is difficult to predict the trend of the pandemic and therefore difficult to forecast the demand for remdesivir with a reasonable degree of certainty,” the affidavit said. It said the Centre was striving to increase the availability of remdesivir through ramped-up production and imports. The affidavit added that the Centre was monitoring the prices of drugs such as favipiravir, remdesivir and ivermectin, and stressed that Paragraph 20 of the Drug Price Control (Order) 2013 prohibited annual increases in minimum retail prices beyond 10 per cent. Last October, India and South Africa had asked the WTO to waive IP protection to enable “unhindered global sharing” of knowhow and technology to make available diagnostic tools, medicines and vaccines to address the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Bihar: Decomposed and bloated bodies found floating in Ganga||Pictures of crammed crematories and pyres burning at parks have grabbed worldwide attention in Covid season. Now comes the sight of abandoned bodies floating down the Ganga. Decomposed and bloated bodies were found in the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district on Monday, with residents alleging these were dead Covid patients dumped in the river by hapless families or callous government officials. Ashok Kumar, the block development officer of Chausa in Buxar, told TV channels that “40 to 45” bodies had been recovered. He had earlier told PTI the bodies must have been dumped upstream in Uttar Pradesh. He had said it was unclear whether the bodies belonged to Covid patients. But a Chausa resident told The Telegraph that many families had been “immersing” dead relatives in the Ganga, either unable to secure space in the choked crematories or too poor to pay the “Rs 14,000-15,000” bribes sought by cremation ground managers. “Covid is killing people in large numbers here. At least 40 bodies are now lined up at the Mahadev Ghat in Chausa. I believe many of them may eventually be thrown into the river.” Several Chausa residents, who spoke before cameras with their faces masked, told PTI the lockdown had created a shortage of firewood and other cremation materials. “Many bereaved families have no option other than immersing the bodies in the river,” a resident said. Another said that administration officials often refused to hand over Covid patients’ bodies to their families, promising to perform the last rites themselves while observing the pandemic protocols. “But the officials later develop cold feet and, fearing they might catch the infection, dump the bodies in the river and flee,” he told PTI. Akash Mishra, a farmer and social worker from Buxar, told this newspaper over the phone: “I was there on Monday morning and counted at least 50 bodies.” He said some of the bodies were half-burnt, suggesting they were dumped in the river midway during cremation — either because the firewood ran out or because the crematory assistants wanted to clear the queues. Buxar SDO K.K. Upadhyay said “10-12 corpses” had come floating “from a distance of four-five days” and that they had been fished out  and would be cremated. M.P. Singh, district magistrate of the Uttar Pradesh district of Ghazipur, which adjoins Buxar, said: “Some corpses were spotted in the Ganga in Ghazipur. We are trying to find out where they came from.” Ram Dheeraj, who runs a school in the Gahmar area of Ghazipur, said: “You can see six-seven bodies floating in the Ganga in Gahmar every day. The number of bodies arriving at the cremation ground along the river has risen from 4-5 to 30-40 a day. There are just two assistants and not enough firewood. Obviously, they can’t cremate all the bodies.” He added: “There’s a tradition here to immerse dead pregnant woman or those killed by snakebite. So, people are used to it and are resorting to it amid the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Eleven die after oxygen reload lag in Tirupati||At least 11 Covid-19 patients died due to a problem in oxygen supply inside the ICU in Government-run Ruia Hospital here late on Monday night, Chittoor district Collector M Hari Narayanan said. There was a five-minute lag in reloading the oxygen cylinder that caused the pressure to drop, resulting in the deaths, he said. "The oxygen supply was restored within five minutes and everything is now normal.Because of this we could prevent more casualties," Hari Narayanan added.
About 30 doctors were immediately rushed into the ICU to attend to the patients.
The Collector said there was no scarcity of oxygen in the hospital and adequate supply was in place. In all, about 700 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment in the ICU and oxygen beds in Ruia while another 300 were in normal wards. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the incident. He spoke to the district collector and directed that a detailed investigation be conducted into the incident. Jagan directed the officials to ensure that such incidents did not recur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Natasha Narwal granted interim bail for three weeks||A Punjabi poem by Swarajbir, poet, editor of the Punjabi Tribune and a former Meghalaya DGP, was widely shared on social media on Monday. An English translation from the political blog, Kafila, is reproduced with permission below: Dear Kind Judge Sahib Swarajbir Kind Judge Sahib, Mahavir Narwal is dead. Yes Judge Sahib, Natasha’s father Is no more in this world. Kind Judge Sahib, A day ago, this daughter Had come to your court. She had not said, “Don’t prosecute me”, She had not said, “Declare me innocent”, Her lawyer had prayed, “Give her two moments She is to see her father She wants to talk to him a bit, He is sick.” She was 13 years of age When her mother died Her father was her mother A shade giving tree he was. You know Judge Sahib, You know it too well, That this girl Did not incite violence in Delhi, She is innocent. She wanted to break the cages of society, And you put her into the cage of the State. You are too powerful Judge Sahib You are munsif. You could have given her two moments To see her father. Judge Sahib, you can keep her in prison for more days You can hand her a sentence of life imprisonment Your black robes have all the powers, Judge Sahib. You can do justice. What is written above is wrong. You can do everything Judge Sahib, But you couldn’t grant her Two moments to talk to her father, You couldn’t give her Those two moments, Judge Sahib, Because you don’t have the heart which could grant her Those two moments. You have power You have justice, You had said You would hear the prayer on Monday. Judge Sahib, that Monday won’t come. That Monday Has disappeared from the calendar. Judge Sahib, For your whole life, You will be searching for that Monday. May 10: JNU student Natasha Narwal was granted interim bail for three weeks on Monday in a case of alleged acts of terrorism linked to her involvement in protests against the new citizenship regime and communal riots in the capital last year. The bail was granted a day after her father Mahavir Narwal, a scientist and activist, died of Covid-19 in Rohtak, Haryana. Mahavir Narwal’s last rites are expected to take place on Tuesday. The current bail plea was filed on Friday evening, a lawyer said. During Monday’s hearing, the bench made an oral remark that Natasha should not speak publicly about the case during the bail period. Natasha’s counsel replied that she was too distraught to do so. The division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambani granted bail on a personal bond of Rs 50,000. This was not opposed by the prosecution. Natasha has already secured bail in two other cases. On Monday, the court said: “…In the interests of justice, we are of the view that the release of the applicant/ appellant is imperative in this hour of grief and personal loss and in the facts and circumstances of the case.” The court added: “Mr Pujari (Natasha’s lawyer) further states that Sh. Mahavir Narwal is survived only by his daughter, namely the appellant/ applicant, and a son, namely Mr Akash Narwal, who as recorded above, is in self-isolation owing to Covid-19 infection; and that, therefore, there is nobody else in the family to perform Sh. Mahavir Narwal’s cremation and last rites. “It is stated in the application that the appellant/ applicant’s mother passed away some 21 years ago. It has also been brought to our notice that the Positron Hospital at Rohtak, Haryana, where the body of the late Sh. Mahavir Narwal is presently kept, is waiting for the appellant/ applicant to receive the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Uttarakhand BJP leader's photo-op faces people's ire||The Uttarakhand Speaker got a tongue-lashing from a woman waiting for her turn to get vaccinated on Monday morning, as others in the queue at a Dehradun centre broke into applause. The Speaker, Premchand Aggarwal, who is also the BJP MLA from Rishikesh, had come to inaugurate the centre at Government Primary School for the inoculation of the 18-44 age group and was allegedly posing for pictures even as people waited outside. Those in the queue got agitated. In a video of the incident that has been shared widely on social media, a woman, standing at the door of the room where the Speaker was sitting, is heard shouting in Hindi: “We are waiting here for more than two hours. You are not fit to be here… You are here for a photo opportunity….” When someone asks her what happened, she says: “We are standing here for the last two-and-a-half hours. This gentleman has made us wait here for two-and-a-half hours so that he can get his photographs taken. Don’t we have anything else to do? Maybe he (Aggarwal) has nothing to do.” “Isn’t he ashamed? He is a burden on the earth. Did we vote for him to do this?” the woman asks, as the people in the queue break into applause. A voice is heard cheering her, saying: “Bahut badhiya, bahut badhiya (Very good, very good.)” Later, Aggarwal told reporters: “There was some confusion about the time of vaccination. It was supposed to start at 11am, but people gathered there at 9am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha claims zero tolerance towards cases of sexual assault||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday declared zero tolerance for incidents like the sexual assault that has come to light at the Tikri border protest site, calling it a test case for the ongoing farmers’ movement that has drawn wide participation from women. The SKM, the farmers’ collective spearheading the movement, also took moral responsibility for its failure to set up an internal complaints committee that would have enabled the victim, who eventually died of Covid, to lodge a complaint. Briefing journalists online along with the victim’s father, the SKM leadership denied allegations that it had not acted despite being aware of the incident. The victim’s father backed the SKM’s contention, saying the delay in registering an FIR owed to his dilemma about how to go about it since his daughter’s last wish was to receive justice without the incident affecting the farmers’ movement. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the victim had come in contact with members of the Kisan Social Army, a group that had set up a tent at Tikri but was not part of the SKM, when they visited Bengal as part of a campaign to get people to vote against the BJP. An activist herself, she travelled to Delhi with the KSA members by train on April 11. She alleged she was assaulted on the way by two members of the group, Anil Malik and Anoop Singh. She apparently mentioned it to a couple of friends but did not lodge a formal complaint. A week later she developed fever and was suspected to have Covid. Yadav said the woman’s father — also an activist — contacted the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee leadership in Bengal, who then contacted Yadav. “When my wife reached out to her on April 24 to speak to her in Bengali, she referred to the harassment but did not dwell on it,” Yadav said. “The next day when we tried to contact her, we could not reach her at first. Upon contacting her father, we were told that she was being taken to a hospital.” When they were able to establish contact with the victim, it became evident that she was being taken somewhere by Anil and Anoop who told Yadav they were taking her to Bengal on her father’s wishes. “I asked the girl in Bengali to send me her location and realised that they were somewhere in Haryana. At this point, I instructed the two men to bring her back to Tikri, saying this was an order from the SKM leadership,” Yadav said. “They complied and after that we were entirely focused on getting her proper treatment and hospitalisation.” Backing Yadav’s account, the victim’s father said he had reached Delhi on April 29 and that it was only through a series of chats with his daughter that he realised she had been assaulted. She died the following day. The SKM leadership met on May 3 and decided to stand with the victim, boycott the KSA and remove its tent from the protest site. SKM leaders told the father that since he was in town it would be best if he lodged the police complaint, failing which the SKM would do so. The father sought some time to make his mind up and filed the complaint on May 8 against Anil and Anoop with Bahadurgarh police station. The police added the names of four others, including two women. The father has filed another statement with the police saying the names of the other four should be removed from the complaint as he did not want innocent people punished. Asked about the interviews given by the two women – Kavita and Yogita – who have said they had alerted some of the SKM leaders about what had happened but to no avail, Yadav insisted that the central leadership was unaware of it. “If this is the case, we will take action after conducting a probe.” Anil and Anoop are in hiding. Asked why no action had been taken against the two after they had returned to Tikri with the victim, Yadav said: “At that point we were unaware of the assault and were entirely focused on getting her medical treatment which, as you are well aware, is difficult in the NCT (National Capital Territory) these days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Congress defers president election for Covid||The much-awaited decision on appointing a regular Congress president has been further delayed as the party’s highest decision-making body on Monday deferred the scheduled election by two-three months because of the Covid-19 crisis. While Covid-19 is indeed a credible reason for putting off the organisational elections, there was speculation about the delay as the miserable results in the Assembly elections deepened the confusion about the future road map, blurring the possibility of Rahul Gandhi’s immediate return as the party chief. The absence of a functional Congress chief has created an impression of a rudderless Opposition, generating much unease among friendly parties which strongly believe that a precious two years have been already squandered. While it is difficult to prevent Rahul from taking over the reins of the party if he wants, sources revealed the young leader is himself reluctant to return without a credible reason and supportive political climate. The party’s inability to wrest power in Assam and Kerala deepened the faultlines and feeling of discontent over Rahul’s style of functioning and the safest way was to buy time even if somebody else was to become the new chief. Even if Rahul does not want to return as chief himself, it will become difficult to impose his own choice in this hostile climate. Though Rahul was not present at the Congress Working Commitee meeting on Monday, questions were asked about the decision-making processes in the party which is nothing but a criticism of his style of functioning. Digvijaya Singh, who also insisted Rahul should return as the president, asked how was the decision taken to align with the AIUDF in Assam. Leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma also argued that critical decisions should be taken after wider consultations. Bengal in-charge Jitin Prasada questioned the sagacity of aligning with the Left in the eastern state while the main battle was against them in Kerala. The tendency to fully rely on the state leadership’s view on alliances also faced criticism. The party’s election management also came under subtle criticism with many leaders wondering why the work in poll-bound states started barely two-three months in advance and insisted that at least one year should be given for preparations. Groupism and over-confidence in Kerala were described as the primary reason for defeat in the Assembly polls after an excellent showing in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Pramod Tewari pointed to the communication gap in the party after the demise of Ahmed Patel and Motilal Vora and asked interim president Sonia Gandhi to make immediate replacements instead of waiting for organisational elections. On postponing the election to the post of party president, however, there was complete unanimity. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot suggested holding the election amid Covid must be avoided and all other members, including Azad and Sharma, supported him. Sonia herself admitted the “setbacks” in the Assembly elections were serious and “to say that we are deeply disappointed is to make an understatement”. She decided to set up a committee to examine every aspect of election management in the five states that went to polls. The committee will be formed within the next 48 hours and submit reports to the party chief within a specific time frame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Cong expresses shock at Centre's pride over foreign aid||The Congress has expressed shock at the BJP and the government’s argument that the foreign aid India has received demonstrates the stature of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asserting instead that it shows the country had slipped into a crisis because of misgovernance. Rahul Gandhi on Monday tweeted: “The Government of India’s repeated chest-thumping at receiving foreign aid is pathetic. Had the Government done its job, it wouldn’t have come to this.” The Congress takes pride in the fact that the Manmohan Singh government did not seek or accept foreign help in times of natural calamities, demonstrating that India could look after its own needs. Addressing a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) later in the day, interim president Sonia Gandhi said: “Over the past few weeks, the international community has rushed to our assistance. On behalf of the Congress, I wish to thank all countries and organisations who are helping us in so many different ways. That we should be placed in such a position reflects the monumental arrogance, incompetence and vain triumphalism of the ruling establishment.” The CWC adopted a resolution saying: “The Congress appreciates the assistance that has been offered and given by the international community at this time of national crisis. However, it needs to be said that there is total non-transparency in the distribution and utilisation of these supplies. Our desperate need for assistance is also a sad reflection of the governance and policy failures of the Modi government.” The resolution added: “The CWC is of the firm belief that this is a time for showing an unwavering sense of national unity, purpose and resolve. In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering all around.” What it meant by “personal agenda” can be gauged by this argument in the resolution: “The CWC expresses its revulsion at the shocking expenditure priorities of the Modi government. At a time when the nation’s resources should be devoted to ensuring expansion of vaccination coverage and supply of essential medicines and oxygen, the Modi government is indulging in criminal waste of money by continuing with the personal vanity project of the Prime Minister in the national capital. This is the height of callousness and insensitivity as also an insult to the people of the country.” Sonia also obliquely referred to the Central Vista project in her opening remarks while talking about the vaccination policy and differential pricing. She said: “Every expert has said that it would have made more sense and it would have been financially more equitable for the Centre to bear the costs. But we know the Modi government has other priorities, pursuing grandiose projects against the force of public opinion and the face of widespread criticism. It is also a shame that the central government continues to discriminate against Opposition-ruled states.” The Congress leadership is aghast at the government’s plea before the Supreme Court, defending its vaccination policy. The party’s communications chief, Randeep Surjewala, said: “It is a deceptive stance. It should be rejected with the contempt it deserves. How can any sane person accept three prices for the same vaccines — one for the Centre, one for the state and one for the private hospitals, and two prices for the vaccines by two manufacturers?” On the government’s argument on Manmohan Singh’s suggestion for invoking compulsory licensing — that the use of statutory power under Patents Act at this stage can be counter-productive — former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “This is not true and a pathetic copout. In Geneva at the WTO, Modi Government tells the world Patents of Covid-19 vaccines must be waived. But it takes a completely different stance in the Supreme Court in New Delhi. Sheer hypocrisy and moral bankruptcy.” Describing the Covid-19 situation as an unprecedented health crisis, the CWC resolution said: “The second wave is nothing short of a grave calamity and a direct consequence of the Modi government’s indifference, insensitivity and incompetence. It is the direct result of the central government’s wilful disregard of scientific advice, its premature declaration of victory, and its unwillingness and inability to plan in advance in spite of warnings sounded not only by public health experts but also by the standing committee of Parliament concerned.” Expressing shock at the vaccine shortage, the resolution pointed out that the mandatory registration for 18-44 age group was discriminatory against the poor and the underprivileged. Rahul tweeted: “A message for app-dependent Modi Government: Corona is unfortunately affecting even those who don’t have Internet facility, which means half of the country’s population. Give vaccine, Arogya Setu and No-Win (pun on Co-Win) Apps can’t save them.” The CWC also expressed grave concern at the spread of virus in rural areas and the tendency to conceal and manipulate infection and death data. Sonia blamed the government’s refusal to accept scientific advice for which the country was paying a horrendous price, along with Modi government’s “wilful patronage of super-spreader events that were allowed for partisan gains”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||ICMR warns doctors of 'black fungus' in Covid patients||The Indian government has told doctors to look out for signs of mucormycosis or “black fungus” in Covid-19 patients as hospitals report a rise in cases of the rare but potentially fatal infection. The state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said at the weekend that doctors treating Covid-19 patients, diabetics and those with compromised immune systems should watch for early symptoms, including sinus pain or nasal blockage on one side of the face, one-sided headache, swelling or numbness, toothache and loosening of teeth. The disease, which can lead to blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood, is strongly linked to diabetes. And diabetes can in turn be exacerbated by steroids such as dexamethasone, used to treat severe Covid-19. “There have been cases reported in several other countries — including the UK, the US, France, Austria, Brazil and Mexico — but the volume is much bigger in India,” said David Denning, a professor at Britain’s Manchester University and an expert at the Global Action Fund for Fungal Infections (GAFFI) charity. “And one of the reasons is lots and lots of diabetes, and lots of poorly controlled diabetes.” India has not published any national data on mucormycosis but has said there is no major outbreak. Media reports have pointed to cases in Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai, and Gujarat. Aparna Mukherjee, a scientist at the ICMR, said: “It’s not something to panic about, but you have to be aware of when to seek consultation.” But it is a complication that India’s overwhelmed hospitals, desperately short of beds as well as the oxygen needed for severely ill Covid-19 patients, could do without. Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the Centre of Advanced Research in Medical Mycology in Chandigarh and an adviser to GAFFI, said that even before Covid-19, mucormycosis was more common in India than in most countries, “partly because of the millions who have diabetes”. He said serious cases might require specific anti-fungal therapy and several operations. P. Suresh, head of ophthalmology at the Fortis Hospital in Mulund, Mumbai, said his hospital had treated at least 10 such patients in the past two weeks, roughly twice as many as in the entire year before the pandemic. All had been infected with Covid-19 and most were diabetic or had received immunosuppressant drugs. Some had died, and some had lost their eyesight, he said. Other doctors spoke of a similar surge in cases. “Previously if I saw one patient a year, I now see about one a week,” said Nishant Kumar, a consultant ophthalmologist at Hinduja hospital in Mumbai, noting the potential for contamination of oxygen pipes and humidifiers in hospitals. Denning called it a “triple whammy”. “You’ve got a high rate of mucormycosis, you’ve got a lot of steroids — maybe too much — being used, and then you’ve got diabetes which is not being well controlled or managed.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Sixteen states record shrinking epidemics||India’s second Covid-19 wave is rising slower than two weeks ago and 16 states on Monday recorded shrinking epidemics, but experts are worried that a plateau in daily diagnostic tests might miss infections and reflect an artificial slowdown. The country’s number of daily tests had peaked to 1.95 million on April 30 but has since plateaued between 1.5 million to 1.92 million over the past week — with 1.4 million tests on Sunday. The seven-day average of daily new Covid-19 cases in the country — about 390,000 on Monday — has grown by 17,000 over the past week, compared with over 52,000 cases during the previous week. Experts, however, are concerned that the numbers of daily tests have not kept pace with the surge and, in some states, declined at a time India has a high positivity rate — positive cases among those tested — of 24 per cent instead of an ideal less than 5 per cent. “What this suggests is that for every 100,000 fewer tests on a day, we’re missing about 24,000 infections,” Rijo M. John, professor of health economics at the Rajagiri Institute of Social Sciences, Cochin, told The Telegraph. Standard public health measures require health authorities to continue to ramp up testing to minimise the test positivity rate to at least below 5 per cent. But experts who are monitoring the testing rates have observed declines in some states. “The number of cases we detect depends directly on the number of tests done,” said Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. “We see the tests per million declining in some states. This can create an erroneous impression of falling cases.” At the peak of the country’s first wave last year, John said, India’s daily new case counts had risen to about 97,000 at which point India was doing about 1.1 million tests daily. “Now, the number of cases has increased near four-fold, but we’re doing less than 2 million tests per day,” he said. Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, said: “Under current circumstances, if we do not test more, there’ll be just more iceberg under the water.” Experts believe the plateau in daily tests could be the outcome of multiple factors — overloaded labs unable to cope with increasing demand, shortages of materials required for tests, and redistribution of tests from high infection areas to low infection areas in the same state. But, Professor Babu said, it is also possible that some areas are approaching the so-called peak counts and showing a real decline. “The second wave has been marked by a rapid ascent which makes a rapid descent likely,” he said. India’s 360,191 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday morning from the previous 24 hours has raised the country’s total number of active patients by about 8,500 to over 3.74 million. But Maharashtra, the hardest-hit among states, on Monday had about 12,300 fewer active patients than a day earlier. Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state, had around 11,000 fewer patients, Bihar had about 2,000 fewer patients, and Delhi’s count shrunk by 1,000 patients. But the counts of patients increased in 20 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Central Vista project: Plea for early hearing made to Delhi HC||A request was made to Delhi High Court on Monday to give an early hearing to a PIL seeking a stay on the construction of the Central Vista project here amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The request was mentioned before a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, and the court said an early hearing application be filed first. Luthra told the bench that he was mentioning the matter as the Supreme Court on May 7 had asked the petitioners to seek urgent hearing before the high court on May 10. Petitioners Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17. The high court had adjourned the matter saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project. In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners had contended that the project was not an essential activity and, therefore, it can be put on hold for now during the pandemic. In the hearing before the apex court, Luthra had said that the plea was only opposed to the permission granted for continuing the construction going on at Rajpath, Central Vista stretch and gardens. “Labours are being transported from Sarai Kale Khan and Karol Bagh area to Rajpath and Central Vista, where construction work is going on. This enhances chances of spread of Covid infection among them,” Luthra had told the apex court. On Monday, he made the same argument before the high court while seeking an early hearing of the matter. The application for early hearing is likely to be heard by the high court on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Gujarat Congress units call for Rs 4 lakh cash for victims' kin||The Gujarat unit of the Congress on Monday demanded a compensation of Rs 4 lakh under provisions of the Disaster Management Act for the kin of each of the over 8,000 people who have died of Covid-19 in the last 13 months in the state. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said at a news conference that a drive is being launched to collect all the required information about the coronavirus victims who have died in the state. According to government data, Covid-19 has claimed 8,394 lives till May 9 in Gujarat. Chavda sought the disbursement of the compensation under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act which provides for “ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life”. “The Disaster Management Act has two components. One is about punishment for violation and another is regarding the welfare of the victims. But the government has completely ignored this second part. There were instances in the past when governments had paid compensation in cases of calamities and accidents,” claimed Chavda. Stressing the need for such financial assistance, the Congress leader said many families have lost their sole earning member in this pandemic. “We want the government to pay a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of these 8,000-plus victims as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. The Congress will collect data about these victims and hand it over to the government to speed up the disbursement process,” said Chavda. Chavda alleged that rural areas, where 75 per cent of Gujarat’s population lives, are bereft of any facilities. He accused the state government of hiding the actual figures of deaths caused due to Covid-19. Chavda was accompanied by Congress MLA Naushad Solanki, who represents Dasada seat in Surendranagar, at the news conference. Solanki claimed that in Surendranagar district alone, where coronavirus infection is not that severe, as many as 3,580 people have died in the last 65 days for Covid-19 and other reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||State of Working India 2021 report links loss in income to reduction in public movement||Household income in over a dozen states that have imposed full or partial lockdown may well be heading for a decline in the ratio of 80 per cent to the reduction in public movement, a a study has shown. The State of Working India 2021 report released by the Azim Premji University (APU) has found a correlation between the reduction in mobility of people in a state owing to the lockdown in 2020 and the drop in family income in that state. Professor Amit Basole, author of the study, said it used Google data on the reduction in monthly mobility of people during March-October 2020 compared with January-February 2020. Google prepares community mobility reports that capture data from users who have turned on the location history setting. The Google data give details on mobility trends for retail and recreation, supermarket, parks, public transport and workplaces. “In April and May last year, the report suggested a sharp fall in mobility because of the lockdown. It picked up from June. When compared with the household income as captured by surveys of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, there is a direct correlation,” Basole said. For example, Delhi experienced a 50 per cent decline in mobility on an average between March and October and this was accompanied by a 39 per cent loss in income. Uttar Pradesh was less affected with a 32 per cent decline in mobility and a 22 per cent loss in income. “Since everybody’s income is not dependent on mobility, there is no 100 per cent correlation between reduction in mobility and income loss,” Basole explained. The analysis of last year’s data is relevant since several states have already enforced complete lockdown while a few others have gone for partial lockdown. States such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha, Delhi, Kernataka, Rajasthan, Bihar, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattishgarh and Goa have gone for complete lockdown or curfew. States such as Maharashtra, Bengal, Assam, Nagaland and Jharkhand have also imposed restrictions on public gathering. The report quoted the APU’s livelihood survey and said that the income loss was severe in case of the poor who did not have any support system. To manage their spending, the poorest 25 per cent households on an average had to take a loan of Rs 12,000, which was almost four times their median income. The next quartile of 25 per cent had to borrow Rs 15,000 while their median income was Rs 7,000 and the third quartile of 25 per cent had to borrow Rs 20,000 against their median income was Rs 10,000. The top 25 per cent quartile borrowed Rs 30,000 against their median income of Rs 18,000. “Now, because of the Covid spread, lockdown is necessary. The government should come out with a support package. Our study has shown the poorest were hit heavily. The same situation may arise this time, too,” Basole said. The poor have already started feeling the shock of the lockdown. Guna Nayak, a migrant worker in Delhi who depends on daily work to support a family of three, said: “Since April 20 when the Delhi government imposed the lockdown, I have managed to get five days of work. In some lanes or sub-lanes, a few contractors are still doing work inside houses. I worked with them for five days. How long should I stay at home? I had no money.” Nayak said he was yet to get any assistance from the  Delhi government or any NGOs in Kotla Mubarakpur locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha plans global tender for vaccines||The Odisha cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday decided to float global tender for purchase of  Covid-19 vaccines. At present, only Covaxin and Covishield are available in the state. But there is a huge shortage of these two vaccines due to short supply and long queues of people are noticed in different vaccine centres to get the jab. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra told reporters, “Only vaccination can protect the people of the state. We will vaccinate all the people. We will go for global tender to bring vaccines from different companies located across the globe. “The health and family welfare department has been empowered to do this. A technical committee will be constituted to this effect which will study the details and take the required steps.” Mohapatra said: “The  state will urge the Centre to exempt taxes from the vaccines and Covid medicines. It will also urge the Centre to share the cess, surcharge collected from various products with the state so that the state’s economic burden will be lessened.” He said: “The state is spending a lot of money for the treatment of Covid patients and vaccination programmes.” The state government also announced that all the staff engaged in Covid duty during this period if fall sick, the period of treatment and isolation period will be treated as duty period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
