12-05-2021||India||Maharashtra: state cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeks||To keep a check on the spread of Covid-19, the Maharashtra cabinet has recommended extending the lockdown-like restrictions in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He also informed that soon chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this regard. The current lockdown-like curbs will end at 7am on May 15. "At the Cabinet meeting, the health department and ministers proposed to extend the lockdown for 15 days. The chief minister will take a final decision on this matter," Tope told reporters as quoted by Hindustan Times. According to officials, the lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administration is expected to impose stricter curbs. At present, cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane. The cabinet meeting was held on a day when the state reported a slight increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, an uptick from 40,956 a day ago, and 816 deaths, the health department said. The caseload increased to 52,26,710, while death toll reached 78,007, it said. On Tuesday Maharashtra had reported 40,956 Covid-19 cases, 793 deaths and 71,966 recoveries. Maharashtra now has 5,46,129 active cases. Another reason for the lockdown extension is the slowed-down vaccination drive. Tope said that the state government has suspended the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years for time being due to shortage of the vaccines. He added that the doses meant for 18-44 age group will be diverted for the second dose of the people above 45 years. According to state government data, Maharashtra has administered 1,88,21,485 doses of Covid-19 vaccine on May 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Parliamentary panel asked govt in March to ramp up vaccine production||A parliamentary standing committee had in March suggested ramping up of production capacity of the two Covid vaccines manufactured in India for ensuring their availability to a wider population as soon as possible after it was informed that there could be a "shortage" if the inoculation is opened beyond the priority groups.

The recommendation was made by the 31-member committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, chaired by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, in its report on Demand for Grants for Department of Biotechnology that was tabled in Parliament on March 8.

The panel has as many as 14 members from the ruling BJP.

"The Committee...recommends...to strengthen...the efforts for ramping up the production capacity of the two approved vaccines as well as provide all research, laboratory infrastructure and capacity building support to the other vaccine candidates in the pipeline, in order to ensure the availability of a safe, affordable, and efficacious vaccine to the wider population as soon as possible," the report said.

According to sources, during the standing committee meeting on February 17, members of the panel had asked as to how soon the vaccination exercise can be opened beyond priority groups, to which it was conveyed that there could be a shortage if it is opened beyond the priority groups.

When asked about the recommendation of the committee, Ramesh said it was clear to the panel from the submissions made by the government that the current production would be inadequate to meet the demand for vaccines.

India needs around 1.9 billion doses to fully vaccinate all adults. It was clear to the Standing Committee from the data presented by the government that the current production capacity is inadequate to meet that demand.

"That's why we recommended that the production capacity must be ramped up as soon as possible. Alas, this wasn't done, and now we are facing a massive vaccine shortage, the house panel chairman Jairam Ramesh told PTI.

However, BJP MP from Jhansi Anurag Sharma, who was part of the panel, said the Centre had worked on the committee's recommendations by allocating funds to both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India.

Several states have decided to issue global tenders for procurement of COVID vaccines as the domestic supply has failed to keep up with the rising demand amid the fierce second wave of the pandemic.

These include Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha.

The parliamentary panel report tabled in March also mentions that Covaxin, developed jointly by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has a planned production capacity of 150 million doses per year.

The estimated manufacturing capacity of Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India is about 70-100 million doses per month.

The Department of Biotechnology had also informed the standing committee that the Centre launched 'Mission Covid Suraksha' for research and development of Indian COVID-19 vaccines which are affordable and accessible.

The mission aims to accelerate the development of approximately 5-6 vaccine candidates. It is being implemented by BIRAC, a PSU. The total budget allocated to it is Rs 900 crore for 12 months.

India started the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 this year in a phased manner with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.

The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.

India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.

Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination to inoculate those in the age group of 18-44 years started from May 1 amid the outbreak of the second Covid wave.

The Centre had also allowed states to directly procure vaccines from manufacturers at a pre-decided rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||SC judge Chandrachud tests positive for Covid-19, suo motu case deferred||Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud has tested positive for Covid-19, the apex court sources said on Wednesday. The top court meanwhile issued a notice which said the scheduled hearing on Thursday before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Chandrachud in the suo motu case for ensuring distribution of essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic stands deferred as one of the judges of the bench has tested positive for coronavirus. The top court sources said Justice Chandrachud, who is heading the bench in the suo motu case, is unwell and is suffering from mild fever. Justice Chandrachud is recovering well, they added. Take notice that since one of the judges of the bench scheduled to hear...titled In Re: Distribution of essential supplies and services during pandemic' and similar matters, on May 13, 2021 (Thursday) has tested positive for Covid-19, the special bench comprising Dr Justice D Y Chandrachud, Justice L Nageswara Rao and Justice S Ravindra Bhat in court no. 5 will not sit and the matters listed before this bench stand deferred and fresh date of listing shall be notified later, the notice issued by the top court said. Besides the suo motu case, several other petitions raising issues related to Covid-19 were also listed for hearing before the bench on Thursday. On May 10, the apex court had said it would hear on May 13 the suo motu case as the virtual proceedings were encountering technical glitches on that day. The bench had said that the deferment would give judges more time to go through the Centre's affidavit in the matter which was filed on May 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||Opp leaders call for free vaccine campaign, want Central Vista suspended ||Leaders of 12 Opposition parties wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday seeking a free mass vaccination campaign against the coronavirus and suspension of the Central Vista project to raise resources for the fight against the pandemic. In a joint letter to the Prime Minister, the Opposition leaders, including some chief ministers, also demanded providing foodgrains to the needy and giving Rs 6,000 per month to the unemployed. The leaders have also demanded repeal of the three Central farm laws which, they said, will help protect lakhs of "annadata" from becoming victims of the pandemic. A large number of farmers are sitting in protest at three borders of Delhi, seeking the farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year be scrapped. The signatories to the joint letter include Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister and JDS leader H D Deve Gowda and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Other signatories include chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), Mamata Banerjee (TMC), MK Stalin (DMK), and Hemant Soren (JMM). Former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah (NC), Akhilesh Yadav (SP), Tejashwi Yadav (RJD), D Raja (CPI) and Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M) are also part of the joint letter.  The leaders have said the Covid-19 pandemic has assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe in the country, and that it was absolutely imperative for the Central government to undertake and implement these measures.
"Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy," they said.
Without going into all the "acts of commission and omission" by the Central government that has brought the country to such a "tragic pass", the Opposition leaders demanded that some measures suggested by them must be undertaken on a war footing.
"Procure vaccines centrally from all available sources - global and domestic. Immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs 35,000 crores for the vaccines," the leaders said in their letter.
"Stop Central Vista construction. Use the allocated money for procuring oxygen and vaccines, instead. Release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM Cares to buy more vaccines, Oxygen and medical equipment required," they also told the prime minister.
The opposition leaders also demanded giving all jobless at least Rs 6,000 per month and free distribution of foodgrains to the needy, saying over one crore tonnes of foodgrains are currently "rotting in central godowns".
"Repeal farm laws to protect lakhs of our annadatas becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people," they said.
"Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of India and our people," the leaders said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||7 more bodies surface in Ganga in UP’s Ballia||With seven more bodies seen floating in the Ganga, the count of bodies found in this Uttar Pradesh district has reached 52, an official said on Wednesday. The district administration is immediately performing the last rites of the deceased as there is a possibility that they had contracted Covid-19. According to Ballia residents, at least 45 bodies were seen floating near the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area on Tuesday evening. Late on Tuesday night, seven more bodies were found, taking the total count of bodies to 52, an official said. In a statement issued on Tuesday, District Magistrate Aditi Singh had said some bodies in a decomposed condition were seen floating under the Ballia-Buxar bridge. She said Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Sadar) Rajesh Yadav and Circle Officer Jagveer Singh Chauhan are probing the matter and the last rites of the deceased were performed with due respect. "The last rites of the deceased were performed on Tuesday itself. We are trying to find out where the bodies came from. Seeing the flow of the river, it seems that they came from Buxar and other parts of Bihar," Yadav told PTI on Wednesday. Although Buxar is downstream to Ballia, there is a possibility that the bodies came from Buxar, he said. "The distance between the Bharauli and Ujiyar ghats in the Narahi police station area of Ballia, and the ghat in Buxar is around one kilometre. The direction of wind over the river is towards Ballia," the SDM said. A police official said the administration is immediately performing the last rites of the dead as there is a possibility that they were infected with the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||MP minister endorses ‘yagna’, claims it has been used since ages to battle pandemics||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur has said 'yagna' is an ancient method of purifying the environment and claimed such a practice is being followed since ages to get rid of pandemics. Amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, Thakur on Tuesday appealed to people to perform "havan" (a fire ritual) at one time. "We appeal to all to perform yagna and offer aahuti (oblation) and purify the environment because performing this sacred ritual to eliminate pandemics has been a tradition since ages," she told reporters. She claimed 'yagna' is a practice to purify the environment and it is "not bigotry or ritualism". "So, let us all offer two aahutis each and purify the environment. The third wave of Covid-19 will not be able to touch our country," she said. Thakur also said the state government was aware of the threat of a third wave of the viral infection. It is being said that this wave will affect children. The state is making full preparations to curb it, she added. "I am confident that we will be able to handle the third wave of the pandemic properly because no problem can stay if we make joint efforts with good intentions. We pray to God that this wave may not cause hardships to people," she said. Earlier, on March 7, Thakur had stressed on the need for adopting a Vedic lifestyle for protection against coronavirus and claimed that "havan" of a cow dung cake can keep a house sanitised for 12 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||Goa court to pronounce verdict on former Tehelka editor on May 19||A sessions court in Goa on Wednesday said it will pronounce the verdict in the Tarun Tejpal case on May 19. The former Tehelka editor-in-chief, who was present in the court on Wednesday, is accused of sexually assaulting a female colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. The additional district court was to pronounce the verdict on April 27, but judge Kshama Joshi had then adjourned the verdict to May 12. The court on Wednesday said the latest adjournment was due to a lack of staff due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The judge said they are operating with only 15 per cent staff and there was a lot of material to go through before pronouncing the verdict," public prosecutor Fransisco Tavora said. Tejpal was present in the court along with some of his family members. While moving out of the courtroom after the judge adjourned the verdict to next week, Tejpal refused to talk to reporters, saying the matter is sub-judice. A number of media persons and lawyers were present in the court. The Goa police registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013 following which he was arrested. He has been out on bail since May 2014. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal. He faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control). He had earlier moved the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay on the framing of charges against him, but his petition was dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||New variant a global concern, found in 44 countries, says WHO ||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday expressed its displeasure against terming the B.1.617 mutant of the novel coronavirus as an "Indian variant", saying that the WHO had not used the word "Indian" for this strain in its document. The ministry dismissed as "without any basis and unfounded" media reports that have used the term "Indian variant" for the B.1.617 mutant strain, which the WHO earlier said was a “variant of concern”. On Tuesday, a WHO report said the variant had “increased transmissibility” and had been found in 44 countries, and therefore described it as a "variant of global concern". "Several media reports have covered the news of the World Health Organisation (WHO) classifying B.1.617 as a variant of global concern. Some of these reports have termed the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as an 'Indian Variant'," the ministry said in a statement. "These media reports are without any basis, and unfounded," it said, adding that the WHO had not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 strain of the coronavirus in its 32-page document. The WHO also issued a clarification saying that it does not associate variants with the names of countries they were first reported from. "WHO does not identify viruses or variants with names of countries they are first reported from. We refer to them by their scientific names and request all to do the same for consistency," the tweet from the global health organisation said. In a report published on Tuesday, the WHO said that the B.1.617 variant of SARS-CoV-2 - the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease - was first found in India in October 2020. The variant, it added, had “increased transmissibility” and has been found in 44 countries. "As such, we are classifying this as a variant of concern at the global level," she said. Until now, WHO has listed it as a "variant of interest". The list of variants of concerns already includes virus mutations first reported from Britain, Brazil and South Africa. Routine assessment The UN body routinely assesses if variants of SARS-CoV-2 result in changes in transmissibility and severity, or if they lead to changes in public health and social measures' implementation by national health authorities. As of May 11, over 4,500 sequences have been uploaded to GISAID and assigned to B.1.617 from 44 countries in all six WHO regions, the global health body said in its latest weekly epidemiological update published on Tuesday. GISAID is a global science initiative and primary source that provides open access to genomic data of the novel coronavirus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. WHO has also characterized the lineage B.1.617 as a “variant of concern (VOC)”, which means it is more dangerous than the original form of the virus first seen in China in late 2019. That danger stems from a variant's higher transmissibility, lethality and resistance to vaccines, or either of them. Higher rates of transmission B.1.617 contains three sub-lineages, which differ by few but potentially relevant mutations in the spike protein - this helps the virus enter the human cells, as well as the prevalence of detection globally. At the present time, WHO has designated B.1.617 as a VOC based on early evidence of phenotypic impacts compared to other circulating virus variants, WHO said. According to it, B.1.617 sub-lineages appear to have higher rates of transmission, including observed rapid increases in prevalence in multiple countries. Preliminary evidence suggests potential reduced effectiveness of Bamlanivimab, a monoclonal antibody used for COVID-19 treatment, and potentially slightly reduced susceptibility to neutralisation antibodies, it said. First reported from India Viruses in the B.1.617 lineage were first reported in India in October 2020. The resurgence in COVID-19 cases and deaths in India have raised questions on the potential role of B.1.617 and other variants such as B.1.1.7 in circulation. A mutation means a change in a nucleic acid base or amino acid molecule, and a virus containing this change is termed a mutant. Mutations eventually accumulate to generate variants that differ from the original virus more and more, and so, a variant can have limited or even cumulative mutations. Mass gatherings blamed A recent risk assessment of the situation in India conducted by WHO found that resurgence and acceleration of COVID-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors. These include an increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility, several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing, reduced adherence to public health and social measures. The exact contributions of each of these factors on increased transmission in India are not well understood. Approximately 0.1 per cent of positive samples in India have been sequenced and uploaded to GISAID to identify SARS-CoV-2 variants. The prevalence of several VOCs, including the B.1.1.7 and B.1.612 sub-lineages, increased concurrent to the surge in COVID-19 cases reported in India, according to WHO. While B.1.1.7 and B.1.612.1 variants have begun to wane in recent weeks, a marked increase in the proportion of viruses sequenced as B.1.612.2 has been observed over the same period, it said. Since the identification of these variants through late April 2021, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 accounted for 21 per cent and 7 per cent of sequenced samples from India, respectively. A preliminary analysis conducted by WHO using sequences submitted to GISAID suggests that B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 have a substantially higher growth rate than other circulating variants in India, suggesting potential increased transmissibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||No Covaxin doses for those under 45 in Delhi, says AAP leader Atishi||AAP leader Atishi on Wednesday said Delhi received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine on May 11, but it has completely run out of Covaxin. She said some Covaxin centres for the 18-44 age group have been temporarily shut from Wednesday. "Around 16,000 Covaxin doses, which were available in the morning, were administered at 44 centres. These centres will also be shut after Wednesday evening," the AAP MLA said. Atishi hoped that the central government would intervene and make Covaxin doses available for the 18-44 age category. "Soon it will be time to give the second dose of Covaxin to beneficiaries in this category," she added. The AAP leader said the national capital received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield on Tuesday evening. There are 4.18 lakh Covishield doses left for people in the 18-44 age group. These can last up to nine days, she added. "However, there will be no Covaxin doses left for the 18-44 age group after Wednesday evening and all such centres will be temporarily shut," she said. Delhi currently has four days of Covaxin and three days of Covishield stock for those above 45, and healthcare and frontline workers. The AAP leader said 1.28 lakh doses were administered in the city on Tuesday. A total of 41.64 lakh doses have been administered to beneficiaries across all categories in Delhi since the inoculation drive started on January 16, according to the bulletin. Delhi has so far received 8.17 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines for the 18-44 category, and over 43 lakh doses for 45-plus, and healthcare and frontline workers. Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being given jabs at 470 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 394 centres. Earlier in the day, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia  said Bharat Biotech has informed the Delhi government that it cannot provide "additional" Covaxin doses to the national capital. The stock of Covaxin in Delhi has finished and as a result around 100 vaccination centres set up in 17 schools have been closed, he said. "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it can not provide Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under the instruction of concerned government officials. It means that the central government is controlling the supply of the vaccine," Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister said the Centre should stop the export of vaccines and share the vaccine formulae of the two manufacturers in the country with other companies for mass-scale production. He also requested the Union government to approve vaccines available in the international market for use in India, and direct states to vaccinate everyone within three months. In a tweet, Sisodia shared the letter sent to the Delhi government by Bharat Biotech, revealing that it cannot supply vaccines. Hitting out at the Centre’s vaccine management, Sisodia wrote in the tweet, “Vaccine mismanagement by Centre-- Covaxin refuses to supply vaccine citing directives of Gov. & limited availability. Once again I would say exporting 6.6cr doses was the biggest mistake. We are forced to shut down 100 covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply.” It is quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about Bharat Biotech's intentions regarding the supply of COVID vaccine Covaxin, a top company official retorted.

In a tweet, Bharat Biotech Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said the company has already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10.

"18 states have been covered though in smaller shipments. Quite disheartening to the teams to hear some states complaining about our intentions. 50 of our employees are off work due to covid, yet we continue to work under pandemic lockdowns 24x7 for U," she said in a tweet.

The Hyderabad-based firm is supplying Covaxin to 18 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Jharkhand and Delhi. Other states are Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||SC dismisses bail plea of Gautam Navlakha in Bhima Koregaon case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of activist Gautam Navlakha, seeking bail in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case of Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra. A bench of justices UU Lalit and K M Joseph dismissed the appeal of Navlakha against the Bombay High Court order denying him bail in the case. On March 26, the top court had reserved its verdict on a plea of Navlakha seeking bail in the case. The top court had on March 3, sought response from the NIA on the plea of Navlakha seeking default bail in the case, claiming the charge sheet was not filed within the stipulated time period. The FIR against him was re-registered in January 2020, and Navlakha surrendered before the NIA on April 14, last year. He had spent 11 days in the NIA's custody till April 25, and since then he is in judicial custody in the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. According to police, some activists allegedly made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence at Koregaon Bhima in the district the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||India logs record 4,205 Covid casualties in a day||India saw a record rise in COVID-19 deaths with 4,205 fresh fatalities taking the country's death toll to 2,54,197, while 3,48,421 new coronavirus infections were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total tally of COVID-19 cases in country now stands at 2,33,40,938. The active cases have reduced to 37,04,099 comprising 15.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.04 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,93,82,642 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,75,83,991 samples have been tested up to May 11 with 19,83,804 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 4,205 new fatalities include 793 from Maharashtra, 480 from Karnataka, 347 from Delhi, 301 from Uttar Pradesh, 298 from Tamil Nadu, 214 from Punjab, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 169 from Rajasthan, 144 from Haryana, 132 from West Bengal, 118 each from Gujarat and Uttarakhand, 108 from Andhra pradesh and 103 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,54,197 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 77,191 from Maharashtra, 20,010 from Delhi, 19,852 from Karnataka, 16,178 from Tamil Nadu, 16,043 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,593 from West Bengal, 10,941 from Chhattisgarh and 10,918 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Union ministers and senior BJP leaders share article defending PM||If anyone has been wondering what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been up to when the Covid second wave is brutalising India, the answer is blowing in countless data packets. Several Union ministers and senior BJP leaders have been sharing a column titled “PM Modi has been working hard; don’t get trapped in the opposition’s barbs”. The column appeared in The Daily Guardian, not to be confused with The Guardian newspaper of the UK that had the temerity to prophesy “future historians will judge Mr Modi harshly if he continues with the exceptionalist views that have led to a disastrous public health outcome”. The Daily Guardian is an e-paper published from India. Most Indians may not have heard about the e-paper till now but the voracious readers in the Modi government took time off Covid crisis management to devour the column and publicise it with gusto. Attributed to BJP media relations convener Sudesh Verma, the column points fingers at chief ministers and an international conspiracy to target Modi. The propaganda bragging points include announcements of several All India Institutes of Medical Sciences by Prime Minister Modi. But six AIIMS had started courses in the second term of the Manmohan Singh government while none has been completed under the Modi regime yet. The column adds: “But there is another side to this which is positive and not being reported because death is big news and recovery is not. More than 85 per cent of people recover without hospitalisation and it is only the 5 per cent or so which needs critical hospital care.” The global Covid fatality rate is a little over 2 per cent, and most people recover at home. Stung by the bad press for the Prime Minister abroad, the constellation that seeks sustenance from Modi dutifully tweeted the column. Such was the tweeting frenzy that a journalist posted: “Union ministers seem to be working 18 hours a day on convincing us that the PM works 18 hours a day.” The Daily Guardian belongs to ITV Network. Led by Kartikeya Sharma, the son of Haryana Jan Chetna Party leader Venod Sharma, the network owns a clutch of channels and The Sunday Guardian newspaper. The Daily Guardian started circulating in print in Delhi in February under the name The Sunday Guardian Daily Edition. Senior ITV executive Meenakshi Singh tweeted: “Lots of hue and cry made on #TDG it is our newspaper (Good Morning India) ppl around are over reacting? The Guardian is printed from UK, The Daily Guardian is printed from India. We are proud of our News Paper and its articles. We bring the truth out.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “Control of narrative has always mattered more to this BJP Govt than substance. Daily Guardian & The Australia Today are little more than parody websites to spout BJP propaganda, disguised as international media. BJP reduced Indian media to a parody, but here the worm has turned!” The Guardian of the UK and The Australian of Australia have been sharply critical of the Indian government’s handling of the pandemic. Publications like The Daily Guardian and the Indian-owned The Australia Today have chosen to attack reportage and criticism of the Covid catastrophe in India. Fact checker Mohammed Zubair of Alt News tweeted a headline of The Washington Post newspaper — “Modi’s pandemic choice: Protect his image or protect India. HE CHOSE HIMSELF” — and added next to it the screenshots of ministers and BJP leaders tweeting Verma’s column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Doctors warn against using cow dung to ward off Covid-19||Doctors are warning against the practice of using cow dung in the belief it will ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases. Doctors in Gujarat have cautioned that cow dung offers no protection from the coronavirus but may cause other infections including mucormycosis or black fungus. Some believers in Gujarat have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in dung and urine in the hope it will boost their immunity against, or help them recover from, the coronavirus. “We see... even doctors come here. Their belief is that this therapy improves their immunity and they can go and tend to patients with no fear,” said Gautam Manilal Borisa, an associate manager at a pharmaceuticals company. As participants wait for the dung and urine mixture on their bodies to dry, they hug or honour the cows at the shelter, and practise yoga to boost energy levels. The packs are then washed off with milk or buttermilk. Doctors and scientists in India and across the world have repeatedly warned against practising alternative treatments for Covid-19, saying they can lead to a false sense of security and complicate health problems. “There is no concrete scientific evidence that cow dung or urine work to boost immunity against Covid-19, it is based entirely on belief,” said J.A. Jayalal, national president at the Indian Medical Association (IMA). “There are also health risks involved in smearing or consuming these products — other diseases can spread from the animal to humans.” There are also concerns the practice could contribute to the spread of the virus as it involved people gathering in groups. Madhucharan Das, in charge of a cow shelter in Ahmedabad, said they were limiting the number of participants. One of the cow shelters the people are thronging is run by the Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Prathisthanam (SGVP) in Ahmedabad. The shelter houses over 200 cows. For the past month, around 15 persons visit the shelter every Sunday to apply cow dung and urine on their bodies, an SGVP official said. “I don’t know if this therapy would really help people. I have never come across any research that suggests that the application of cow dung increases immunity against the coronavirus,” said Dileep Mavlankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. Mona Desai, a senior doctor in Ahmedabad, termed the therapy “humbug and inauthentic”. “Cow dung is nothing but body waste. Applying cow dung and urine can never boost immunity or protect you from the coronavirus. People should consult doctors and stay away from such therapies,” said Desai, chairperson of the women’s wing of the IMA. “Instead of proving helpful, cow dung would give you other infections, including mucormycosis,” she said. Mucormycosis has been observed among some Covid-19 survivors and can be fatal, also causing blindness. “Since cow dung also carries several fungi, they may enter the body and infect you. I urge people to be a little aware and not put their lives in danger,” Desai said. Sections of politicians had earlier touted quack therapies such as rolling in mud or eating a particular brand of papad as an antidote to the coronavirus, earning derision from the scientific community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Indian scientists studying variants' contribution to second wave||Scientists in India are studying whether coronavirus variants, including one first identified in Maharashtra last year, are contributing to the country’s devastating second wave. Though clinical data has not been made publicly available, anecdotally, doctors are reporting higher numbers of young people and children testing positive for the virus and more patients with severe disease requiring oxygen support. Some experts suspect that the surge is caused by the B.1.1.7 variant, first reported in Britain, and by B.1.617, the one discovered in Maharashtra that is distinguished by a mutation at two locations of the spike protein’s coding sequence. One of these mutations is also found on a variant first identified in California. Experts say changes to the shape of the spike protein — which latches on to human cells — could make it more transmissible and better able to evade an immune response. Gagandeep Kang, a pre-eminent Indian virologist, said there was not enough data to conclude whether either variant was contributing to India’s deadlier second wave. “There is some conflicting data regarding the B.1.1.7 variant, which seems to indicate in some studies that it does cause more severe disease, in other studies not,” she said. Based on reports from hospitals, Dr Kang said, it appeared that the B.1.617 variant was causing more severe disease, but that again, there was insufficient data to draw any conclusions. She said that real-time genetic information would be needed to determine that B.1.617-infected people needed more oxygen. “We don’t know that,” she added. The Indian government said that the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium, a network of labs created in December last year that is monitoring genomic changes in the virus, has asked states to send more samples along with patient clinical data to help evaluate whether the double-mutation variant is more transmissible. However, the consortium said earlier this month that B.1.617, which it categorises as a variant of concern, was being identified more often in some states as their infection numbers rose. The World Health Organization (WHO) said the predominant lineage of B.1.617 was first identified in India last December, although an earlier version was spotted |in October 2020. On May 10, the WHO classified it as a “variant of concern,” adds Reuters. which also includes variants first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. Some initial studies showed the Indian variant spreads more easily. “There is increased transmissibility demonstrated by some preliminary studies,” Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO’s technical lead on Covid-19, said, adding it needs more information about the Indian variant to understand how much of it is circulating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Anil Ambani contempt case: Sacked SC officials pardoned by Justice Bobde||Two Supreme Court officials who had been sacked in 2019 for allegedly tampering with a judicial order to exempt industrialist Anil Ambani from appearing in person in a contempt case were pardoned by Justice S.A. Bobde before he retired as Chief Justice of India last month, court sources have told The Telegraph. The two officials, Manav Sharma and Tapan Kumar Chakraborty, functioned as court masters who record judicial orders pronounced by the judges in the highest court of the land. Sharma has been reinstated with a reduction in rank on the condition that he would not be eligible for promotion for five years. Chakraborty’s sack order has been changed to “compulsory retirement”, enabling him to claim all retirement benefits such as provident fund, gratuity, pension and medical benefits, the sources said. The steps were taken before Justice Bobde demitted office on April 23 this year, the sources added. The two were dismissed from service when Justice Ranjan Gogoi was the Chief Justice of India. Justice Bobde could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts by this newspaper on Tuesday. The two former court masters had pleaded for “mercy” and offered to forego their statutory right of appeal before the Chief Justice of India. Their punishment had been reduced on “humanitarian grounds”, the sources said. Justice Bobde is understood to have signed the files on April 20 following the representations from the two erstwhile court masters. An office order numbered 6/2021 and dated April 20, 2021, says: “On consideration of the representation dated 19.2.2021 of Mr Manav Sharma, Ex-Court master (shorthand) for reconsideration of the order regarding imposition of penalty of removal from service on him with effect from 13.2.2019 his prayer for mercy and the subsequent undertaking dated 18.3.21 to forego right of appeal and to treat appeal against removal from service as withdrawn, Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, has purely on humanitarian grounds, been pleased to substitute the penalty of removal from service on him with the penalty of reduction in rank to the post of senior personal assistant, as prescribed in Rule 11(v) of Supreme Court Officers and Servants (conditions of services and conduct) Rules, 1961, with a stipulation that his case shall not be considered for promotion for a period of five years. As directed, the intervening period from 13.2.2019 till dated shall be treated as dies non.” The order was issued in the name of S.N. Joshi, officer on special duty, vigilance, of the Supreme Court. A second office order, numbered 7/2021, stated: “On consideration of the representation dated 2/11/2020 of Mr Tapan Kumar Chakraborty, Ex-Assistant Registrar, for re-consideration of the order regarding imposition of penalty for removal from service on him with effect from 13.2.2019, his prayer for mercy and the subsequent undertaking to forego right of appeal and to treat appeal against removal from service as withdrawn, Hon’ble Chief Justice of India has purely on humanitarian grounds been pleased to substitute the penalty of removal from service on him with the penalty of compulsory retirement as prescribed in Rule 11(v) of Supreme Court Officers and Servants (Conditions of Services and Conduct) Rules, 1961, with the direction that he shall be allowed retiral benefits under the relevant rules from the date of the order of imposition of original penalty on him i.e.13.2.2010.” According to the sources, the move to pardon the two former court masters followed requests from a leader of the Supreme Court Employees Association. It had been contended that the punishment was disproportionately excessive, warranting a lenient view. On February 13, 2019, exercising its extraordinary powers under Article 311 of the Constitution, the Supreme Court had dismissed Sharma and Chakraborty for allegedly tampering with a judicial order to exempt the presence of Ambani in a contempt case filed by Ericsson India. Justice Gogoi, the then CJI, exercised his power under Article 311 and also relied on Section 13(11) of the Supreme Court that empowers the Chief Justice of India as the administrative head of the registry to dismiss an employee under “extraordinary” circumstances without resorting to the normal disciplinary proceedings that are undertaken against government officials. The duo were also arrested and sent to both police and judicial custody before being granted bail more than a month later. Sources said Delhi police, which conducted the investigation into the purported criminal conspiracy between certain corporate groups, lawyers and the two then court masters, did not get any tangible evidence of the alleged offences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Experts raise alarm over Covid plasma therapy||Top health and medical experts have asked India’s apex science adviser to help remove convalescent plasma from the national Covid-19 treatment guidelines, expressing concern that the guidelines are misleading patients and families into believing that plasma helps. A group of 18 doctors, public health specialists and researchers has written to Krishnaswamy VijayRaghavan, principal scientific adviser to the Indian government, saying the current guidelines have given rise to irrational and non-scientific use of plasma. The latest updated April 22 guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the National Covid-19 Task Force and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, say that plasma “may be considered” in early moderate disease within seven days of symptoms with no use after seven days. The experts have underlined that current global evidence — including the results of a nationwide ICMR study last year — does not show any benefit of plasma therapy in Covid-19 patients, yet plasma continues to be prescribed rampantly in hospitals across India. “Families of patients run from pillar to post for getting plasma which is in short supply and reports of black-marketing are common,” the experts wrote to VijayRaghavan, seeking his intervention to get the current guidelines revised. The experts have acknowledged what treatments to offer to which patients and at what stage of the disease are “complex clinical decisions”, but treatment guidelines should necessarily be based on existing research evidence. “The public — patients and families — should know that there is no evidence to recommend plasma,” said Vivekanand Jha, a senior nephrologist and executive director at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, and one of the signatories to the letter. “Multiple clinical trials have found that plasma does not hasten recovery or reduce mortality,” Jha told The Telegraph. “When plasma is not available and a patient dies, the grieving family should not mistakenly believe that it might have made a difference.” Jha and the other signatories have cited clinical trials in India, the UK and Argentina that found no benefit of plasma therapy in Covid-19 patients. They have sought the removal of plasma from the treatment guidelines and said blood banks should be instructed about this revision. After its clinical trial in 39 hospitals last year had failed to find any benefit, the ICMR had cautioned against plasma therapy but had not recommended against its use. Although the guidelines recommend only restricted use, doctors say the demand for plasma has spiked during India’s second Covid-19 wave. Researchers say they cannot explain why the updated April 22 guidelines had retained plasma as an option. “Many of us are foxed — institutions such as the ICMR and AIIMS are viewed as apex authorities on medical matters,” one of the signatories told this newspaper. “With authority also comes responsibility.” The experts have also cautioned that there is early evidence linking the emergence of coronavirus variants with “lower susceptibility” to the immune responses in people given plasma therapy. “This raises the possibility of more virulent strains developing due to the irrational use of plasma therapy which could fuel the pandemic,” they wrote. The signatories include Yogesh Jain, a paediatrician and public health specialist, Soumyadeep Bhaumik, a public health specialist, Shahid Jameel, a virologist, Gagandeep Kang, a clinical microbiologist, C.S. Pramesh, a medical oncologist, Anant Bhan, a bioethicist, and Amar Jesani, editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, among others. Virologists say variants are also likely to emerge from the vast pool of constantly replicating viruses that are multiplying inside the hundreds of millions of infected people worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Congress questions BJP president J.P. Nadda's letter to Sonia Gandhi ||The Congress on Tuesday wondered whether BJP president J.P. Nadda wrote to Sonia Gandhi to turn the “government-versus-people” narrative into the usual partisan feud at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi appeared to have no answers to questions raised by healthcare experts, the international media and Indian doctors as well as Covid patients. “We didn’t write to J.P. Nadda. It is not a political issue. It is not a BJP-versus-Congress battle. What is Nadda trying to do? Is he desperate to change the government-versus-people narrative? Why did the Prime Minister not answer the letters written by Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi? Letters written by our leaders were based on conversations with global experts and leaders who have decades of administrative experience,” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said. Nadda had accused the Congress of “spreading negativity and panic” on Covid and warned that the Opposition party’s leaders would be remembered for “duplicity and pettiness”. Maken asserted that the BJP was politicising the national tragedy while the Congress was only observing “rajdharma as the Opposition” in a democracy by giving constructive suggestions. “Forget the Congress, what have the two most reputed medical and science journals — The Lancet and Nature — said about the Modi government’s Covid management? What is the international media saying?” Maken asked. He recalled how The Lancet, while warning of a “self-inflicted catastrophe”, had asked Modi to accept mistakes. Maken said: “The world is saying India is hiding the (actual) numbers of infections and deaths. The Indian Medical Association, which has three lakh doctors as members, has said they are not being consulted. “The Covid task force did not meet for months. The government ignored a parliamentary standing committee alert on an oxygen crisis. Crematoriums don’t have space. Now the Ganga (where bodies of the Covid dead are being dumped) is telling us how pathetic the situation is. Why is Nadda not dealing with these issues? His letter betrays lack of concern, absence of remorse,” the Congress leader added. Nadda’s assertions fly in the face of the stark reality as the screams and miseries of the people across the country barely need any Congress propaganda to drive home the grim message. There is a deluge of tell-tale evidence — hundreds of patients have died in hospitals because of disruptions in oxygen supply, thousands are seen everyday struggling for hospital admission and oxygen, mass funeral pyres are burning incessantly and around four lakh new cases are being reported daily. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram countered the BJP chief by advising him to read what Nobel laureates Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Esther Duflo had written in The New York Times instead of sending an ill-informed letter to Sonia. Writing under the headline “India’s problem is now the world’s problem”, the couple explained how a lockdown was imposed without planning last year when the virus arrived and now there was reluctance to impose another lockdown when the pathogen was spreading wildly because of concerns about the economy. They argued that nobody was tracking the second wave seriously. Maken said Nadda should have dealt with specific suggestions given by Congress leaders instead of launching a political diatribe. Pointing to disconcerting facts that show the Modi government in poor light, Maken said: “Countries like the US, the UK, Germany, Japan and even Brazil started placing orders for vaccines between May and September last year while we placed our first order in January this year….India needs to vaccinate at least 90 crore people and at the current rate this exercise will need three to four years. We have covered only 17 crore people so far (with at least one dose). The US and China will vaccinate their entire population in a few months.” Asked about Nadda’s claim that even Congress-appointed Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar had acknowledged the need for a new Parliament building and hence the attack on the Central Vista project was hypocritical, Maken said: “It is a question of priority and timing. Is this the time to spend Rs 20,000 crore on a new Parliament building and residential complexes for ministers when we are unable to give free vaccines to the poor, to give food and medicine to the poor, when millions have lost their jobs and the economy is in tatters?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Communist stalwart K.R. Gouri Amma passes away||Legendary communist leader K.R. Gouri Amma died in a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram early on Tuesday. She was 102. Having made her peace with the CPM, she made her last journey draped in the flag she swore allegiance to 73 years ago over a secure magisterial job even though she could not realise her wish to return to the fold from which she had been expelled in 1994. In a reflection of the rapprochement over the recent years, the LDF government in Kerala accorded her full honours and even relaxed the limits on funeral attendance to allow more people to pay their last tributes when the body was kept for public viewing at Thiruvananthapuram’s Ayyankali Hall. The body was then taken to her native district Alappuzha where she was cremated at the Punapara-Vayalar memorial to the martyrs of the uprising of 1946. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan bid her adieu with the red salute, in Delhi she was remembered fondly by party general secretary Sitaram Yechury who described her as an “outstanding leader of the people’s movement in Kerala’’. Recalling her commitment to the party, Yechury said though she was married to another stalwart of the communist movement in Kerala, T.V. Thomas, Gouri Amma sided with the CPM when the split in the united party took place in 1964. Thomas remained in the CPI. “In her departure Kerala has lost the last among the remaining members of the 1957 communist ministry headed by E.M.S. Namboodiripad. Kerala has lost one of its illustrious daughters who commanded wide respect and admiration,’’ he said. Talking to The Telegraph about his own interaction with her, Yechury said: “During the 1980s and 1990s, when she was a minister, I had a close association with her regarding export of traditional products of Kerala to socialist countries. This gave me an opportunity to work with her. She was always very affectionate.’’ About her expulsion from the party, Yechury said: “It was sad that she had to part ways with the party. She realised her folly and came back to the LDF fold. She remained a very indomitable fighter and a communist all her life.’’ Gouri Amma, as she was popularly referred to, was the minister for revenue, excise and Devasom in the first communist government elected in Kerala, headed by Nambooridipad in 1957, and is credited with being one of the architects of land reforms in Kerala. Even before the formation of the present state of Kerala, she was elected to the Travancore-Kochi Legislative Assembly on two occasions; having joined the CPI when it was a banned organisation in 1948. She was a minister in various governments in the state including the one headed by the Congress-led United Democratic Front for some time after she was expelled from the CPM. After leaving the CPM — over denial of the chief minister’s post after being projected as such before the 1987 Assembly polls — Gouri Amma formed her own party, the Janathipathiya Samrakshana Samithy, in 1994. The first woman lawyer of the Ezhava community of Kerala, she was legendary for her revolutionary zeal and administrative acumen. And, equally at home, dishing out rice and the traditional Kerala fish curry to visitors at home; making her an early generation multi-tasker. But she had to contend with the glass ceiling throughout her stint with the CPM; never making it to the party’s decision-making structures despite her stature in Kerala politics. Still, she held her own and this was evident in 2019 when the top brass of Kerala’s political class was in attendance as she clocked 100 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre flags measures taken by Mumbai and Pune as models for the nation||The Centre on Tuesday flagged measures taken by Mumbai and Pune as models the rest of the nation should emulate in efforts to control the second Covid-19 wave at a time 310 districts across India show runaway infections. The Union health ministry cited “stringent containment measures” in Pune and a mix of effective public communication, decentralised war rooms, and augmented health infrastructure in Mumbai as examples of efforts needed to curb the infection spread in other states. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded over 329,000 Covid-19 new infections, a decline from 366,000 a day earlier, but the national test positivity rate — the proportion positive among those tested — is 18 per cent, significantly higher than the ideal of below five per cent. In 310 districts, the positivity rate is greater than 21 per cent, meaning one in every five persons tested is found positive and implying that the local epidemics there have grown to levels where tests are unable to detect many infected people. A health official said 533 districts across India — including 45 in Madhya Pradesh, 38 in Uttar Pradesh, 36 in Maharashtra, 34 in Tamil Nadu, 33 in Bihar, 28 in Karnataka, 23 in Gujarat, and 22 in Bengal — have positivity rates above 10 per cent and qualify for “stringent containment measures”. The official said Pune’s actions to couple night curfews with additional restrictions on mass gatherings, on intermingling of people, and the closure of non-essential services for a period of 15 days from April 12 onward had led to a plateauing of daily new infections. He also cited Mumbai’s responses, including a decision to create a “decentralised citizen communication approach” in which the test results were shared with the administration to communicate the results with the public. Mumbai’s municipal corporation created decentralised war-rooms in 24 wards across the city and served as a hub, receiving close to 10,000 test results every day from 55 labs and sorting them based on wards and shared with each war room. Each war room had 30 telephone lines, 10 telephone operators, 10 doctors or medical support staff, 10 ambulances and dashboards that showed hospital bed availability. Patients were encouraged to call in and the ambulances would move patients to hospitals, a state task force member told The Telegraph. The health ministry also cited Mumbai’s moves to augment medical infrastructure. Health experts say what Mumbai has done is unlikely to be easily replicated in resource-poor states or districts. A state task force member had also told this newspaper last week that the Maharashtra government deserved credit for taking decisions based on guidance from “science and doctors”. Health officials and experts are worried that the epidemic has grown beyond the testing capacity in some districts with high daily cases. India has a capacity for 1.6 million RT-PCR tests — the standard genetic diagnostic tool — and about 1.7 million alternative rapid antigen tests per day. India conducted 1.85 million tests on Monday. The ICMR had last week revised testing guidelines to expand the use of rapid antigen tests and recommended the establishment of 24x7 testing booths in public spaces to increase the numbers of tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Natasha Narwal bids goodbye to father Mahavir Narwal||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Nadda writes to Sonia, accuses Cong of trying to weaken fight against Covid||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday wrote to Sonia Gandhi, accusing the Congress of trying to weaken the fight against Covid-19, as the ruling party tried to shield Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the intensifying criticism of his handling of the pandemic. “You must ask yourselves — in times as these, is your party’s conduct weakening the morale of these Covid warriors? Deliberately or otherwise, are your actions trying to weaken this fight against Covid-19?” Nadda asked Congress president Sonia in the letter. Sonia had on Friday said the Covid-ravaged nation was sinking under the weight of the Modi government’s indifference and incompetence. Besides the failure to foresee and manage the acute shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, medicines and vaccines that has left people dying, Modi and his chief lieutenant Amit Shah have been accused of holding superspreader campaign rallies and then disappearing from the public eye as devastation spread through the country. “In the fight against the pandemic, the conduct of the topmost Congress leaders including former Congress President Shri Rahul Gandhi will be remembered for duplicity and pettiness,” the BJP chief wrote. Nadda accused the Congress of ridiculing the vaccines made in India and creating “doubts in the minds of the people” and perpetrating “vaccine hesitancy”. Responding to the condemnation of Modi and other BJP leaders for holding poll rallies as cases surged, Nadda said: “Holding massive election rallies in Kerala causing a spike in Covid cases while grandstanding about election rallies elsewhere.…” Nadda also broached the Congress criticism of Central Vista — a Rs 20,000 crore project envisaging a new Parliament building and a residence for the Prime Minister that the government has been pushing ahead with despite the countrywide devastation and calls to halt the construction and use the money to fight the pandemic. The BJP chief claimed that the need for a new Parliament building had been felt even when the Congress-helmed UPA was in power. “Now, there is a new trend in the Congress party to put all the blame on the Central Vista project,” Nadda wrote. “I would like to remind you that the need for a new Parliament was raised as early as the UPA times,” he added. The BJP president also sought to blame the Congress for the inadequate health infrastructure in the country. The tone of Nadda’s letter to Sonia was like that of health minister Harsh Vardhan’s letter to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, after he wrote to Modi offering suggestions to tackle the pandemic. Singh, Sonia and Rahul have all written letters to Modi at different times, offering suggestions and promising support in the battle against Covid. The Prime Minister has chosen not to respond. Instead, his ministers and party colleagues have mocked the Congress leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||District Magistrate seeks Covid donations in Uttar Pradesh ||A district magistrate in Uttar Pradesh has appealed to people for donations to fight the Covid crisis, sparking anger at a time citizens are grappling with lack of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines, crematoriums have been overflowing and businesses have been dealt a body blow because of strict restrictions. In a message under his letterhead, Ashutosh Niranjan, the district magistrate of Deoria, has stated: “We appeal to all the residents of Deoria district that those who want to donate/help the administration, can submit cheque/bank draft in the office of the undersigned or can deposit in the bank account mentioned below. This amount would be spent in the treatment of Covid patients and procurement of other me­d­ical items.” The letter mentions a bank account in the name of the “District Social Responsibility Committee”. The appeal, besides being termed insensitive at a time the pandemic has been claiming many lives in a disaster of unprecedented proportions, appears to run counter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s repeated claims that there is no shortage of anything required in the treatment of Covid. The BJP leader had said in Lucknow on Tuesday: “There is no scarcity of anything in the state. We are fighting the pandemic with the blessings of Prime Minister Narendra Mo­di who is providing us everything.” DM Niranjan’s letter, issued on May 10, was also posted on his Twitter handle. The Telegraph tried to contact Niranjan to ask why he issued such an appeal at such an inopportune moment but his phone was either busy or kept ringing. A source at the home depa­r­tment in Lucknow said: “The DMs have been asked to | involve people in Covid management in whatever way | they fi­nd suitable. At some places, the DMs have formed committees of people to coordinate wi­th Covid patients so that their needs are smoothly addressed. “The DM of Deoria must have thought of involving people by asking for donations. We have come to know that people are donating amounts as low as Rs 101, which is very
good. The idea is to create a sense of belonging, and not to generate funds.” Such a sentiment was not shared by a large number of people, social media replies to the DM’s Twitter post revealed. Brijesh Singh Kushwaha, an engineer, wrote on Twitter: “You people have again started begging so that you can fill the stomachs of VIPs. What arrangements have been made in Rudrapur, Barhaj, Salempur and Bhatpar Rani in Deoria district? People are dying every day as there are no medicines, doctors, ambulances and oxygen.” Another Twitter user, R. Srikant, wrote: “Hope @Amit¬ Shah ji donates enough money from @BJP4India party fund if the UP govt treasury has run out of money. Or maybe, @HardeepSPuri ji will release money from the Vanity Vista project to save lives of fellow Indians.” Puri, the Union minister for aviation, housing and urban affairs, had criticised the Congress for questioning the government’s move to push ahead with the Central Vista construction and beautification project in the capital amid the pandemic and said: “The cost of Central Vista is about Rs 20,000 crore over several years.” Several Twitter users asked what was being done with the PM CARES Fund that had been instituted to battle the pandemic. One Shakeel Ahamed tweeted: “Giving and taking help is fine but India is getting huge help from across the world. There is also the PM CARES Fund…. Where is that money, sir? Meanwhile, 65% of the population lives in villages where there are no facilities.” Shashank Baranwal, a mechanical engineer and businessman, said there were no earnings because of the lockdown and asked how people would provide any help. He alleged that none had come to the rescue of shopkeepers and retailers, but they were now being asked for money instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||95-year-old Congress leader beats Covid after a 15-day long fight in Odisha||A 95-year-old woman from the tribal-dominated Keonjhar district has beaten Covid-19 after a 15-day long fight. She has set an example for others at a time when many people are losing the battle against the virus out of sheer panic. The nonagenarian Sushila Bala Pahi, who was the first woman Zila Parishad chairperson of Keonjhar district from 1997 to 2002 and is a noted Congress leader of the area, was found infected with Covid-19 on April 15 and was kept in isolation in a hotel under the supervision of the chief district medical officer of the district, Ashok Das. Das told The Telegraph: “A team led by me was treating the patient who was very optimistic from the beginning and fully cooperated with us. Despite having a heart problem and some other diseases she beat Covid-19. Though during the course of treatment, her blood pressure often fluctuated but she never panicked.” Pahi has a son and a daughter, both of them well settled. Her son, Kanan Bihari Pahi, who has also been diagnosed with Covid-19 and currently under treatment, said: “My mother is an inspiration for all of us. She talks to me over phone and constantly boosts my morale.” Kanan said he had taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine but his mother has taken only the first dose. He wondered how they contracted the virus even after taking the vaccine. “Our will power has played a major role in her recovery,” he noted. Assistant professor, Psychiatry, SCB Medical College and Hospital, Dr Seema Parija said, “The morale of Covid patients should remain high. They should be constantly supported by other family members. There is no need to be panic. A healthy mind can defeat Covid-19.” So far 4.57 lakh people have been recovered from the disease in the state where 2,215 Covid deaths have been recorded so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: A dozen more bodies surface in Ganga at Ghazipur ||Around a dozen bloated and decomposed bodies were on Tuesday found floating in the Ganga at Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh, a day after two dozen bodies were brought out of the river in a nearby area and many more were fished out in Bihar’s Buxar district. Residents of Bara and Gahmar villages in Ghazipur said the five cremation ghats in the area did not have enough firewood at a time many people were dying of Covid-19. They said relatives, fearful of contracting the virus, could be dumping the bodies in the river. Sudhir Singh, a villager of Gahmar, told The Telegraph over phone on Tuesday: “The nagar palika’s sweepers had been deployed late on Monday night to carry the bodies to the other side of the river and bury them in the sandbed. We helped them. Many bodies were completely decomposed and couldn’t be lifted and ferried in boats. So we somehow tied them to the boats with ropes and pulled them to the other side of the river where they were buried five-six feet deep in the sand.” “Now, more bodies have been seen in the river in Bara, 10km from Gahmar. Let us see how the administration manages this,” Singh added. Ishwar Chand, a local social worker, said: “There is no firewood at any of the five ghats in Gahmar. However, at least 40 people are dying of Covid here every day. What can the people do except for immersing the bodies in the Ganga?” Gahmar was set up by people in 1530 and is considered one of the biggest villages of Asia with a population of 1.2 lakh. There are 22 hamlets in the village and at least two people have been dying of Covid in each everyday, residents said. The Ganga passes through Allahabad, Varanasi and Ghazipur before entering Buxar district of Bihar. An eyewitness in Bara told this newspaper on Tuesday afternoon that he could see a dozen bodies either floating in the river or lying scattered on its banks. “We believe they were thrown into the river by the people of the area because they either feared contracting the virus or couldn’t find space at the cremation ground,” he said. Ramesh Maurya, the sub-divisional magistrate of the area, said: “These bodies don’t belong to Ghazipur. They must have come floating from other places.” Maurya didn’t say from where the bodies had come floating from. Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, is located upstream from Ghazipur. M.P. Singh, the district magistrate of Ghazipur, said: “We are conducing an inquiry to find out where from these bodies are coming.” The Bihar government on Tuesday said a total of 71 bodies had been brought out of the Ganga in Buxar district, 15km from Bara. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar, a key aide of chief minister Nitish Kumar, tweeted: “The Bihar government is seized of the matter of unfortunate case of floating mortal remains in river Ganga.… The bodies have floated into Bihar from UP.” Jha said doctors had confirmed upon post-mortem that the deaths had taken place “four-five days” ago. He said the chief minister was pained at both the tragedy as well as the “harm” to the Ganga. “The last rites of 71 bodiesperformed as per protocols. A net has been placed in the Ganges in Ranighat, bordering UP and Bihar. We have advised the UP administration to be vigilant. Our administration is keeping vigil, too. Advise all to give respect to the dead and also to Maa Ganga,”Jha tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
