13-05-2021||India||Assam NRC: State Coordinator moves SC for re-verification||Assam State NRC Coordinator has moved the Supreme Court seeking complete, comprehensive and time bound re-verification of the draft as well as the supplementary list of NRC saying some glaring anomalies have been noticed. An intervention application filed by Hitesh Dev Sharma in the pending matter before the top court has also sought direction for the re-verification to be done under the supervision of monitoring committee in the respective districts and such committee may be preferably represented by the respective district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police. Sharma, who has earlier worked as Executive Director, National Register of Citizenship (NRC), Assam from May, 2014 to February, 2017 was appointed as state coordinator of NRC on December 24, 2019 after his predecessor Prateek Hazela was transferred in October, 2019. He said that as per the standard operating procedure approved by the Registrar General of India, the rejection slips are to be issued to persons whose names were not included in the final NRC after disposal of Claims and Objections enclosing the speaking orders of Disposing Officers' to enable the rejected persons to appeal before the foreigners' tribunals. However, it submitted that while preparation was on to issue the rejection slips, some issues of substantive importance have cropped up on account of which the entire exercise of issuance of the rejection slips' have got delayed , he said, adding that while trying to solve the issues, some glaring anomalies have also been noticed, which are of very serious nature. He said that the anomalies needs to be brought to the knowledge of this court as the NRC updation process is being monitored by the top court and the whole NCR updation process is related to the security and the integrity of the nation . That as on date, the final NRC is yet to be published by the Registrar General of India as per clause 7 of the schedule of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. The complete draft of NRC was published on July 30, 2018 and the supplementary list of inclusion and exclusion was published on August 31, 2019, the application said. Sharma said that since the preparation of a correct and error free NRC is an issue integral to national security and is being closely monitored by this court, the applicant deems it necessary to apprise this court certain omission and commission that have occurred during the updation of NRC for its kind consideration and possible remedial action as deemed fit and proper by this court in the facts and circumstances of the case . He further said that the documents submitted by the applicants of NRC in support of their claims were initially verified through office and field verification, which had helped a lot towards preparation of correct NRC but this verification cannot be termed as "error free and conclusive". The office verification process had helped in detection of only forged documents, it could in no manner help detect any manipulated/manufactured secondary document which is used to procure the main document , it said, adding that the office verification process could however, be still a very effective tool for verification if it was properly and effectively combined with the family tree verification process. It further said that out of names of 40, 07, 719 persons excluded from the draft NRC, about 3, 93, 975 persons did not file any claims and therefore their names are in the exclusion list of the NRC. After sample checks now and analysis of the names of the persons who did not file claims on the basis of surnames only, it was found that 50,695 persons were apparently eligible for inclusion in the NRC. Out of this, 7,770 persons are from Originally inhabitants' category and 42,925 persons are from persons from other States' , it said. Sharma said that this figure may increase if detail re-verification is done and for a flawless and complete NRC, names of these persons have to be included in the Final NRC, failing which the final NRC will lose its acceptability . The plea said that to ascertain whether there were more cases of entry of undeserving persons getting entry into the NRC through wrong marking of Originally Inhabitant (OI) in different areas of the state, a team of office of the state coordinator was sent to Lahorighat Circle and Dhing Circle in the month of October 2020. The team made some sample checks on OI markers persons and found that out of 10 names marked as OI in Dhing Circle, 8 names were not from the Originally Inhabitant community. Similarly, out of 6 names marked as OI in Lahorighat circle, two names were found not from the OI community, the plea said. The plea highlighted several other anomalies found in other areas as well and said that some of these persons might have qualified for entry into NRC through invalid documents. There is every reason to believe that the family tree matching process did not work properly and thus failed to achieve the desired objective, it said, adding that some serious procedural flaws have also been noticed during the claims and objections disposal which has the potential of vitiating the entire process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Peak will come, virus can again emerge says Centre||As the country battles the second wave of Covid-19, the government Thursday said the virus may emerge again and so preparations have to be made at the national level in collaboration with states, infrastructure needs to be ramped up while curbs and appropriate behaviour must be followed. Dismissing allegations that the government was unaware of the intensity of the second wave, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said, "We kept warning again and again from this platform that the second wave of Covid-19 will come. "It was said that the sero-positivity is 20 per cent, 80 per cent of the population is still vulnerable and that virus has not gone anywhere and other countries were also witnessing a resurge." At a press conference, Paul said, "The prime minister had conveyed the country about the emerging second wave on March 17 without creating panic and had said that we have to fight it." "Was such a peak expected," he said, "well, no modelling can predict the size of a peak as the unexpected behaviour virus is well known." "So peak will come, the virus can again emerge, we know. So preparations have to be made at country level in collaboration with states, infrastructure has to be ramped up, containment measures have to be implemented and Covid appropriate behaviour has to be followed. "We had not created panic... other countries have faced multiple peaks after all it's a pandemic," he said. He said it is the nature of the disease that it will ultimately go to villages. This epidemiology is well known, Paul said as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and embrace vaccination. Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said that plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases and a slight decline positivity rate have been recorded in the country over the past three days, but added 10 states still have a positivity rate of more than 25 per cent which was "worrisome trend". He said as many as 12 states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while 24 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity rate. "There are 10 states --Goa, Puducherry, West Bengal, Karntaka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha where the Covid-19 case positivity rate is more than 25 per cent while there are eight states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala where it is more than 20 per cent, which is a worrisome trend," he said. He, however, said the number of districts with week-on week rise in Covid-19 tests, yet decline in positivity rate has increased from 125 in April 22-28 to 338 between May 6 and 12. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan,Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Telangana were among 20 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal,Punjab, Assam, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Pudusherry and Manipur were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new Covid-19 cases and remain area of concern. There 316 districts showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases since last two weeks while 187 districts have relatively shown a decline in Covid-19 cases during the same period , he said. India has been reeling under a catastrophic second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, the country added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated this morning. The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||How will I get my vaccine: Delhiites ask after Covaxin doses perish for those below 45||The news of Covaxin stocks running dry in Delhi has left people in the 18-44 age group worried, with many saying on Twitter that they would be "left in a lurch" if their wait for the second dose gets "infinitely delayed".  Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that people under the age of 45 will not be able to get Covaxin shots from Thursday, saying its manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the city government.  With Covaxin's stock finished, the Delhi government temporarily closed down around 100 centres administering the vaccine on Wednesday.  "I got my first dose of Covaxin day before yesterday now I am concern how I will get my second dose as you know Covaxin have stopped the supply to Delhi(sic)," tweeted Abdul Basit.  "I got Covaxin in Delhi a week ago. I'm worried thinking if there is a plan or data maintained how many covaxin or covishield ll be required when we all become eligible for the second dose. Scared to think we might miss the window due to non availability of the required one then," tweeted Baba TJ.  Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi wrote: "Big issue as Delhi has already run out of Covaxin. What about people who got their first doses, is their second dose indefinitely delayed? What is the Centre/ State's take on it??".  As per the protocols, there should be 28-days gap between the two doses of Covaxin. Around 90 lakh people are eligible for inoculation under the 18-44 age group in the national capital.  Twenty-eight-year-old Nisha Siaini, who till Wednesday thought of herself and her husband as "extremely lucky" to have successfully found a slot for vaccination, is now worried about the availability of the second dose.  She is afraid that the shortage of vaccines will "create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future".  "Those who have taken Covaxin have been left in the lurch. There is no surety that we will be able to get the 2nd dose on time. Also, we cannot even take any other vaccine. This will create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future," said Nisha, a professional banker, who got her first jab along with her husband on May 5.  "The only answer to this problem is that the Centre help the company ramp up production or ask other companies to manufacture Covaxin," she suggested.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday had suggested that the Centre share the anti-COVID-19 vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other companies in the country to scale up production.  The situation is more grave for those who are already due for the second dose of Covaxin and are running from pillar to post for vaccination.  "#Kejriwal I got my first dose of Covaxin on 5th of April at Bhagwati hospital sec.13 Rohini. My second dose is due now they are saying We have no vaccine. Now where to get the vaccine," tweeted Ashwani Rampal.  "Dear Mr. Kejriwal, Please help us to get 2nd dose of Covaxin for my Parents. For the last three days, we are visiting centres even with the appointment slip of Cowin. However, they respond that Vaccine is finished. 1/2 @ArvindKejriwal @PMOIndia @AamAadmiParty @msisodia," tweeted Hardik Arora.  "My mom and grandma got first dose Covaxin a month ago, My booking of the second dose got automatically cancelled 2 times and now they are no slots left. What do we do now? wouldn't this waste millions of vaccines if someone is unable to get the 2nd dose on time? - Delhi Resident," tweeted Kumar Gaurav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Open up community kitchens for migrant workers, facilitate their transportation, says SC||The Supreme Court Thursday directed Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to open community kitchens in the NCR for stranded migrant workers amid the current wave of COVID-19 pandemic and facilitate transportation for labourers who want to return home. Passing a slew of interim directions to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers facing difficulties in wake of the recent surge in COVID-19 cases and restrictions imposed in several parts of India, the apex court directed that dry ration be provided to them in the national capital region (NCR) under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme' or any other scheme by the Centre and governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah said the Centre may also issue instructions to the Ministry of Railways to take necessary and adequate measures to cater to the needs of migrant workers. The top court passed the order on an application filed by three activists who sought directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for migrant workers who are facing distress due to the curbs clamped in several parts of the country amid the pandemic. “NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana (for the districts included in the NCR) shall open community kitchen at well-advertised places (in the national capital region) for stranded migrant labourers so that they and their family members who are stranded could get two meals a day,” the bench said. “NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana (for the districts included in the NCR) shall ensure that adequate transport is provided to stranded migrant labourers (in the national capital region) who want to return to their home,” it said. It directed that district administration, in coordination with police, may identify such stranded migrant labourers and facilitate their transport either by road or train. “Dry ration to migrant workers in National Capital Region under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme or any other scheme be provided by the Union of India, NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana utilising the public distribution system prevalent in each state with effect from May 2021,” the bench said. It said while providing dry ration, the authorities of the states shall not insist on an identity card for those migrant labourers who do not possess for the time being and on self-declaration made by the stranded migrant labourers dry ration be given to them . It directed the Centre as well as the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to file their replies to the application suggesting means and measures by which they shall ameliorate miseries of stranded migrant labourers. “We also issue notice on the application to state of Maharashtra, state of Gujarat and state of Bihar to file their reply giving the details of the measures which they propose to take to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers regarding transportation of stranded migrant workers and providing dry ration as well as cooked meals to the stranded migrant workers,” it said. The bench noted in its order than when nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24 last year amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the migrant labourers were the great sufferers because of cessation of their employment and they being left with no financial support to sustain themselves, there were large exodus from metro cities like Delhi and Bombay. In May last year, the top court had taken suo motu cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers amid pandemic and had passed a slew of directions, including asking the states not to charge fare from migrant workers and provide them food for free till they board trains or buses. In its order passed on Thursday, the bench referred to the June 9 last year order passed by the top court in which it had dealt with issues, including on taking care of those migrant workers who had returned to their native places after cessation of their employment. The apex court noted that it had granted two-week time to all the states and Union Territories (UTs) to submit affidavits in response to various aspects highlighted in the order and the Centre was also directed to bring on record different schemes which can be taken by migrant labourers for their welfare. The bench noted that by its September 1 last year order, it had granted further two-week time to states and UTs to file their responses and the steps taken on the issues raised earlier by the court. “It appears that most of the states have not filed their specific responses on the aforesaid issues and if filed, they are inadequate," it said. The bench said as a last chance , it is giving further 10-day time to NCT of Delhi, states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Orissa to file their specific responses on the issues more particularly referred in its earlier orders and also the steps taken or to be taken and within how much time. “For the time being we have issued directions to file the response/counter on the aforesaid issues to the aforesaid states only. With respect to other states, further directions shall be issued hereinafter, it said and posted the matter for hearing on May 24, it said” Referring to resurgence of COVID-19 infections and consequent curbs, activists - Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar -- have filed the fresh interim plea in the suo motu case seeking initiation of welfare measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Facebook to roll out drive in India to bust misinformation on Covid-19||Facebook on Thursday said it will roll out a new campaign in India in the coming weeks to "educate and inform people" about how to detect misinformation related to Covid-19, and encourage users to check the information they receive against an authentic source. The social networking giant has removed over 12 million pieces of "harmful" misinformation on Covid-19 globally from Instagram and its own platform during the pandemic, including falsehoods about approved vaccines. It also put warning labels on over 167 million posts that were marked as false by third-party fact-checkers. The social media giant, which counts India among its biggest markets, said it is working on connecting people to accurate sources, and tackle misinformation, especially about the Covid-19 pandemic. To support its efforts to provide tools to make qualified decisions about information users see online, Facebook will be rolling out a new campaign in India over the coming weeks, the US-based social networking platform said in a statement. The campaign is aimed at educating and informing people about how to detect misinformation related to Covid-19 and encouraging them to check the information they receive against an authentic source such as the MyGov platform. "We have developed six easy tips to fight Covid-19 misinformation. These tips will show up on Facebook through a series of creative adverts, and link out to a dedicated microsite, "www.fightCovidmisinfo.com/india/," it added. Via the campaign, people will be encouraged to get the whole story and not just the headline, look for trusted sources, and share facts and not rumours. The campaign and the website will be rolled out in English and 9 Indian languages -- Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Oriya, Malayalam, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati and Bengali. As per data provided by the Indian government earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook users and 21 crore users of Instagram. Last month, Twitter, Facebook and other social media platforms had removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to take down content spreading fake news around the pandemic. In its statement on Thursday, Facebook said it has made significant investments to remove accounts and content that violate its Community Standards or Ad Policies as part of its global fight against the spread of misinformation. It is also working on reducing the distribution of misinformation and false news, and informing people by giving them more context on the posts they see, so that "people can decide what to read, trust, and share". During the pandemic, more than 12 million pieces of harmful misinformation on Covid-19 were removed globally from Facebook and Instagram. "Facebook has put warning labels on over 167 million posts marked as false by third-party fact-checkers. When people see warning labels, about 95 per cent of the time they do not go on to view the original content," the US-based company said. Facebook said it has also initiated a campaign in association with leading doctors in India in a bid to provide accurate and reliable information and resources on Covid-19. The campaign includes a series of 12 videos where doctors address the most commonly asked questions on Covid-19. The video series - #DoctorKiSuno - will premiere on https://www.facebook.com/FacebookIndia and will cover key topics like Covid-19 in children, diabetes and Covid-19, the mental health impacts of Covid-19 among others. "Through this Covid-19 pandemic and beyond, we'll continue working with partners and the community to ensure we're effectively tackling misinformation. "We will give them the resources they need to help spot and challenge the content they are seeing online, and share accurate information with their friends and family over social media," Facebook said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Human rights panel issues notice to Centre, UP, Bihar over dead bodies in Ganga||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, after receiving complaints about several dead bodies found floating in the Ganga river in the two states. "It (NHRC) has issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of both the states and the Secretary, Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, today calling for an action taken report within four weeks," its statement noted. According to residents in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh, at least 52 bodies were seen floating at the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area. Similar reports of bodies floating in Ganga have come from Bihar. In its statement, the NHRC said that it seems the public authorities have failed to take concentric efforts in educating the masses and checking the immersion of half burnt or unburnt dead bodies into the Ganga. India has been badly hit by the second wave of coronavirus infections and cremation grounds and burial grounds across the country have been overburdened. On Wednesday, corpses were found in the Ganga at three places in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night, local accounts suggesting a combined tally of about 40 bodies. “Bodies were found in the Narahi area under the Ballia-Buxar bridge and were many days old,” Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh said. About a dozen bodies were found near Majhi Ghat in the Kotwa Narayanpur area and 17 near Ujiyari Ghat, both places in Ballia, on Tuesday night, local people told reporters. Some three dozen bodies had been found in the Ganga in the Gahmar and Dildarnagar areas of Ghazipur on Tuesday, and over three dozen in Buxar on Monday. Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha denied the Buxar bodies could have been local and sought a probe from Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Covishield second dose window extended, now between 12-16 weeks||The government has accepted the Covid-19 Working Group's recommendation for extending the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, adding that it was a “science-based” decision devoid of any risks. However, no change has been suggested for the dosage interval (28 days) for Covaxin, it said. “Based on the available real-life evidence, particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the ministry said. The regimen being followed across India as of now between two doses of Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, is 6-8 weeks. "The recommendation of the Covid-19 Working Group was accepted by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), headed by Dr V.K. Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, at its meeting on May 12, 2021," the ministry said. It has accepted this recommendation of the Covid-19 Working Group of extension of the gap between the first and second doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks, the health ministry added. Niti Aayog member Paul said, “Based on the available real-life evidence, particularly from the UK, the decision to extend it from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks has been taken with confidence that there will not be an extra risk. This is a dynamic decision and, part of periodic review," he added. Asked if the efficacy of the vaccine will be affected with this extension, Paul said, "The efficacy is so good even after the single dose...it's not a problem at all." Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla, endorsed the decision too. "This is beneficial both from an efficacy and immunogenicity standpoint... good scientific decision to increase the gap," he told NDTV. The Centre’s move comes amid reports from several states about shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. Some states and UTs have also reported that they had to suspend its vaccination drive for 18-44 years in view of the scarcity. While Maharashtra decided on Wednesday to suspend its drive to vaccinate people in the age group of 18 to 44 years in view of vaccine shortage, Delhi also temporarily shut Covaxin-administering centres for this age group as it has run out of stock. This is the second time in three months Covishield dosage intervals have been widened, reported ndtv.com. In March, states and UTs were told to increase the gap from 28 days to six-eight weeks "for better results". At that time the Centre also said: "Protection was enhanced if the second dose of Covishield was administered between six and eight weeks but not later than that.” The changes prompted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh to ask the obvious question on the ever-widening recommended interval between doses. "First, it was four weeks for the 2nd dose, then six-eight weeks and now we are told 12-16 weeks. Is this because there are not enough stocks of the vaccines for all who are eligible or because professional scientific advice says so?" Mr Ramesh asked. "Can we expect some transparency from the Modi government?" he added. Working group recommendations The Covid-19 Working Group is chaired by Dr N.K. Arora, who is director at the INCLEN Trust. Its members comprise Dr Rakesh Agarwal, Director and Dean, JIPMER, Puducherry; Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr J.P. Mulliyal, former professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr Naveen Khanna, Group Leader, International Centre For Genetic Engineering And Biotechnology (ICGEB), JNU, New Delhi; Dr Amulya Panda, Director, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi; and Dr V.G. Somani, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). It also rejected the proposal for routinely screening all vaccine recipients with rapid antigen testing prior to COVID vaccination. The NTAGI recommended that all pregnant women visiting for ANC care may be informed about risks and benefits associated with Covishield and Covaxin. Based on the information provided, a pregnant woman may be offered the choice to take any of the COVID 19 vaccine. An educational tool comprising information on risk of COVID 19 infection during pregnancy, benefits associated with the vaccination and rare complications associated with vaccines like thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (with Covishield) may be developed. Also, all lactating women are eligible to receive the COVID 19 vaccines any time after delivery, the panel suggested. According to the current vaccination protocol, pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the shots as they have not been part of any anti-coronavirus vaccine clinical trial so far. Global tenders Thursday’s recommendations come amid several states reporting shortage of vaccines. Many states and UTs, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, have decided to opt for global tenders for procurement of anti-coronavirus shots with the domestic supply falling short to meet the rising demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Lockdown extended in Bihar till May 25||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced the extension of the lockdown in the state till May 25. Kumar made the announcement after chairing a high-level meeting, convened to take a decision on the lockdown, which was in place from May 5 to 15. "Reviewed the lockdown in Bihar with colleagues in the council of ministers and officials. The positive outcome of the lockdown is evident. Hence, a decision has been taken to extend the lockdown by another 10 days, from May 16 to 25," the chief minister tweeted in Hindi. The state has been rattled by explosive growth in its COVID-19 incidence since the beginning of April. During the period, its total caseload has risen by nearly three times and exceeded six lakh. The death toll, which on Wednesday crossed 3,500, has also seen a more than three-fold jump during the period. Those succumbing to COVID-19 include many sitting and former legislators, top bureaucrats and doctors. Nonetheless, the situation has looked up in the past few days, causing the recovery rate -- which had dipped to as low as 77 per cent at the beginning of this month -- to reach 83.43 per cent on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the state registered 9,863 fresh cases, after having witnessed daily jumps in its tally by a five-digit figure for more than a fortnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||14 UP doctors resign over ‘mental harassment’ by admin officers||Fourteen doctors working at community and primary health centres in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao have tendered their resignation, alleging misbehaviour and mental harassment by administration officers. The doctors, however, assured that they will not let their Covid-related work be affected till talks are going on with the district magistrate and the chief medical officer over the resignations. The 14 doctors, who are in charge of CHCs and PHCs in Unnao, submitted their resignation letters at the CMO office on Wednesday evening. They also forwarded a copy of their resignation letters to the Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Director General (Health) and other senior officers. "We will not fight under the banner of Provincial Medical Services (PMS) association. This is our fight. The DM and CMO misbehaved with us even after we have been working in limited resources in rural areas for the past one year. Instead of cooperating, administration officers misbehave with us," Dr Sanjiv alleged. "Our work is being reviewed by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and block development officer (BDO) level officers," he added. The agitated doctors claimed that their salaries were also withheld several times. However, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Ashutosh Kumar refuted all the claims and said all the doctors have returned to their work. "We don't talk like that. We all will work together," Kumar said. Meanwhile, the doctors said they will decide on the future course of action after meeting the chief medical officer and the district magistrate in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Court issues show cause notice to Nirav Modi in PNB scam case||A special court here has issued a public notice to fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, wanted in India for alleged fraud and money laundering in the PNB scam case, asking why his properties should not be confiscated under the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act. Special Judge V C Barde has also asked Modi to appear before the court on June 11. The court said if the accused failed to appear, it will proceed with action against him under the FEO Act. The special court had in December 2019 declared Nirav Modi a fugitive economic offender, on a plea of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is conducting a probe into the case. "I, V C Barde, Special Judge, PMLA, 2002 and Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, issue NOTICE to you to show cause as to why the properties mentioned in the application (ED's plea), in which you have pecuniary interest and/or otherwise, should not be confiscated under the said Act," the recent notice said. A similar notice was also issued to Nirav Modi's wife Ami, sister Purvi and brother-in-law Maiank Mehta. The notice said the family members have been enumerated as "interested person" in the application. The investigating agency has alleged that Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, in connivance with certain bank officials, allegedly cheated the Punjab National Bank (PNB) to the tune of Rs 14,000 crore through issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs). The LoUs were allegedly issued in a fraudulent manner by a Mumbai branch of the PNB to a group of companies belonging to Nirav Modi since March 2011, till the case came to light. Under the FEO Act, a person can be declared a fugitive economic offender if a warrant has been issued against him for an offence involving an amount of Rs 100 crore or more and he has left the country and refuses to return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||UPSC postpones June 27 civil services preliminary exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Thursday postponed the civil services preliminary examination, scheduled to be held in June, to October 10 in view of the alarming COVID situation. The UPSC conducts the civil services exam every year to fill Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS), and Indian Police Service (IPS) level jobs. To be selected for the job, candidates have to clear preliminary test, mains, followed by a personality interview. "Due to the prevailing conditions caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), the Union Public Service Commission has deferred the civil services (preliminary) examination, 2021, which was scheduled to be held on 27th June, 2021. Now, this examination will be held on 10th October, 2021," a statement issued by the commission said. While the CSE 2021 prelims or the first stage of the exam has been deferred, the UPSC has also changed the schedule for several other exams including Employment Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) Exam 2020, Civil Services Examination (CSE) 2020 interviews etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Al-Qaeda man moves court seeking nod to work as doctor in Tihar jail||An alleged Al-Qaeda member who is a doctor and lodged in Tihar jail, moved a Delhi court on Thursday seeking permission to assist the prison authorities to deal with the COVID-19 cases. In an application before Special Judge Dharmender Rana on Wednesday, the accused - Sabeel Ahmed - submitted that his experience and expertise as a medical professional would be helpful in dealing with the surge in COVID-19 cases and treatment of inmates in the central jail. Ahmed, member of banned terrorist outfit Al-Qaeda in the Indian Sub-Continent (AQIS), was arrested on February 22 by the special cell of Delhi Police, for allegedly providing logistic and financial assistance to other members of the organisation in India and abroad. Ahmed's advocate M S Khan sought a direction to the jail superintendent for allowing the accused to assist the jail administration. It is pertinent to mention herein that accused is a qualified MBBS doctor with seven years of experience in treatment of critical cases. His experience and expertise being a medical professional would be helpful for dealing with the surge in COVID cases and treatment of inmates in central jail, Tihar, the application said. It is, therefore, most respectfully and in the interest of justice prayed that directions may be issued to the jail superintendent for allowing the accused to assist the jail administration in for medical purposes on such terms and conditions as may be deemed fit and proper," it added. He is also an accused in suicidal terror attack at Glasgow Airport (United Kingdom) on June 30, 2007. He was deported from Saudi Arabia on August 20, 2020 and was taken into custody by NIA in another terror case lodged in Bengaluru. His custody was later taken by the special cell of Delhi Police in the present matter on February 22, this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi takes jibe at Modi, says he is missing along with vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, alleging that he is missing along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic and what remains is the central vista project and the PM's photos. The former Congress chief has been attacking the prime minister over the government's handling of the pandemic and has been critical of the Centre for the lack of oxygen, medicines and vaccines in the country amid a surge in the number of cases during the second wave of Covid-19. "The prime minister is also missing, along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines. All that remain are the central vista project, GST on medicines and the prime minister's photos here and there," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hit out at the government over dead bodies floating in the Ganga. "What time has come in this New India that even dead bodies floating in rivers are not visible to the government. Shame...," he said in a tweet in Hindi, while citing a news report about the bodies being buried in sand in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao. With a single-day rise of 3,62,727 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,37,03,665 on Thursday, while the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 more people succumbing to it, according to the health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Delhi’s oxygen requirement dips, Sisodia asks Centre to share surplus with other states||The Delhi government has written to the Centre, saying the surplus oxygen that is being given to it can be supplied to other states, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. He thanked the Centre and the Delhi High Court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi while they were in distress due to a surge in the number of coronavirus cases. Sisodia said Delhi recorded 10,400 fresh COVID-19 cases in a 24-hour period and the positivity rate stands at 14 per cent. He said the national capital had a requirement of 700 Metric Tonnes of oxygen when the number of cases was rising but now that the figure is showing a declining trend, the requirement has come down to 582 MT. "We have written to the Centre for giving the surplus oxygen to other states. We are a responsible government," the deputy chief minister said. On May 7, the Supreme Court had directed the Centre to allocate 700MT oxygen to Delhi per day, which at that time was going through an extreme crisis. It had also warned of ‘coercive action’ against the Centre if the directive was not followed. “We want 700MT to be supplied to Delhi and we mean business. It has to be supplied and we don’t want to be coercive. Our order will take time to be uploaded by 3pm, but you proceed and arrange the oxygen,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta as soon as the court commenced proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Lockdown-like restrictions extended in Maharashtra till June 1||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the lockdown-like restrictions in the state till June 1 to break the chain of COVID-19. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte in an order said the curbs will remain in force till 7 am on June 1. As per the order, additional restrictions include mandatory negative RT-PCR test report for any person entering the state by any mode of transport. The test report will have to be issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state. All restrictions enforced as per earlier orders for people arriving from places of "sensitive origin" will be applicable to anyone arriving from any part of the country into the state, the order said. In case of cargo carriers, not more than two people will be allowed to travel in those vehicles. If the carriers are originating from outside Maharashtra,they will be allowed with a negative RT-PCR test report issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state and will be valid for seven days, the order said. The lockdown-like curbs were earlier imposed in the state on April 5. The curbs were further tightened on April 15 with Section 144 of the CrPc, banning assembly of five or more people at one place, imposed in theentire state. As per the latest order, the Local Disaster Management Authority (DMA) will keep a special vigil on rural markets and APMCs (agriculture produce market committees) to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. If it finds that such places are difficult to manage and ensure discipline, then the local DMA may decide to shut them or impose further restrictions, the government said. Milk collection, transport and processing will be allowed without restrictions, though its retail trade shall be allowed subject to restrictions imposed on shops dealing with essential items or through home delivery, the order said. Personnel engaged in airport, port services, and movement of cargo related to medicines or equipment for COVID-19 management will be allowed to travel in local, mono and Metro trains, it said. The local DMAs have been given powers to impose further restrictions generally or to specific sectors or areas with intimation to the state DMA, and shall give at least 48- hour notice to the public, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||DCGI nod to Covaxin for Phase II/III trials on children below 18||India's apex drug regulator DCGI has granted permission for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 2 to 18 years, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. "The National Regulator of the country, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), after careful examination, has accepted the recommendation of Subject Expert Committee (SEC) and accorded permission to conduct the Phase II/III clinical trial of Covaxin (Covid vaccine) in the age group 2 to 18 years, to its manufacturer Bharat Biotech Ltd on May 12," the ministry said. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had proposed to carry out the clinical trial in the age group of 2 to 18 years. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses on day 0 and day 28. As a rapid regulatory response, the proposal was deliberated in the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) in a Covid-19 meeting held on May 11. The Committee, after detailed deliberation, recommended a grant of permission to conduct proposed phase II/III clinical trials to certain conditions. Earlier the proposal was deliberated in the SEC meeting on February 24 and the firm was asked to submit a revised clinical trial protocol. Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Govt panel calls for 12-16 week gap between two doses of Covishield||A government panel has recommended increasing the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks, prompting immediate questions on whether the new norms were in line with international protocols and, more importantly, if the announcement was made in view of the nationwide shortage of vaccines. According to official sources on Thursday, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), had not suggested any change in the dosage interval of Covaxin. The NTAGI stated that those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness should defer COVID-19 vaccination for six months after recovery, the sources said. According to the current protocol, vaccine must be taken four to eight weeks after recovery from COVID-19 infection. It also suggested that pregnant women may be offered the choice to take any COVID-19 vaccine and that lactating women can be inoculated any time after delivery. "Based on the available real life evidence particularly from the UK, the COVID-19 working group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the sources said. Currently, the recommended interval between two doses of Covishield is six to eight weeks. The recommendations of the NTAGI, which came after a recent meeting of the panel, will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) for approval before the changes are implemented. This is the second time in three months Covishield dosage intervals have been widened, reported ndtv.com. In March, states and UTs were told to increase the gap from 28 days to six-eight weeks "for better results". At that time the Centre also said: "Protection was enhanced if the second dose of Covishield was administered between six and eight weeks but not later than that.” The changes prompted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh to ask the obvious question on the ever-widening recommended interval between doses. "First, it was four weeks for the 2nd dose, then six-eight weeks and now we are told 12-16 weeks. Is this because there are not enough stocks of the vaccines for all who are eligible or because professional scientific advice says so?" Mr Ramesh asked. "Can we expect some transparency from the Modi government?" he added. Widespread shortage Thursday’s recommendations come amid several states reporting shortage of vaccines. Many states and UTs, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, have decided to opt for global tenders for procurement of anti-coronavirus shots with the domestic supply falling short to meet the rising demand. The panel also rejected the proposal for routinely screening all vaccine recipients with rapid antigen testing prior to COVID vaccination. The NTAGI recommended that all pregnant women visiting for ANC care may be informed about risks and benefits associated with Covishield and Covaxin. Based on the information provided, a pregnant woman may be offered the choice to take any of the COVID 19 vaccine. An educational tool comprising information on risk of COVID 19 infection during pregnancy, benefits associated with the vaccination and rare complications associated with vaccines like thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (with Covishield) may be developed. Also, all lactating women are eligible to receive the COVID 19 vaccines any time after delivery, the panel suggested. According to the current vaccination protocol, pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the shots as they have not been part of any anti-coronavirus vaccine clinical trial so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||India logs over 3.62 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,120 casualties in a day||India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,97,34,823 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.26 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,94,48,585 samples have been tested up to May 12 with 18,64,594 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,120 new fatalities include 816 from Maharashtra, 516 from Karnataka, 326 from Uttar Pradesh, 300 from Delhi, 293 from Tamil Nadu, 193 from Punjab, 165 from Haryana, 164 from Rajasthan, 153 from Chhattisgarh, 135 from West Bengal, 109 from Uttarakhand and 102 from Gujarat. A total of 2,58,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 78,007 from Maharashtra, 20,368 from Karnataka, 20,310 from Delhi, 16,471 from Tamil Nadu, 16,369 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,728 from West Bengal, 11,111 from Punjab and 11,094, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||A look at International Nurses Day 2021 ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: More bodies found floating in Ganga||Bodies are being discovered floating down the Ganga at a new place by the hour, with local bureaucrats and ministers scrambling to claim the corpses came from elsewhere up the 2,500km river. After Buxar on Monday and Ghazipur on Tuesday afternoon, corpses were found in the Ganga at three places in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night, local accounts suggesting a combined tally of about 40 bodies. “Bodies were found in the Narahi area under the Ballia-Buxar bridge and were many days old,” Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh said. Her statement implied the bodies had been thrown into the river further upstream — a claim also made by officials in Buxar (Bihar) and Ghazipur (Uttar Pradesh) and buttressed by a Bihar minister on Wednesday. Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, is just upstream from Ghazipur. The Ganga flows from Varanasi to Ghazipur and enters Buxar before turning and flowing into Ballia and then re-entering Bihar. People in Buxar and Ghazipur have, however, said families are “immersing” bodies – mostly of Covid patients -- in the Ganga, unable to secure firewood or pay the bribes demanded by crematory staff. They have alleged that officials too sometimes dump the bodies of Covid patients in the river. “The bodies were buried or cremated along the riverbank according to the condition of the corpses. We are probing from where they arrived,” Singh said. The more decomposed bodies are buried and the rest cremated, officials said, suggesting the pandemic had obliterated the smashan-kabristan (cremation ground-graveyard) religious distinction that Modi had drawn to polarise Uttar Pradesh voters during the 2017 Assembly poll campaign. About a dozen bodies were found near Majhi Ghat in the Kotwa Narayanpur area and 17 near Ujiyari Ghat, both places in Ballia, on Tuesday night, local people told reporters. Some three dozen bodies had been found in the Ganga in the Gahmar and Dildarnagar areas of Ghazipur on Tuesday, and over three dozen in Buxar on Monday. Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha denied the Buxar bodies could have been local and sought a probe from Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||On video call, wife killed by rocket in Israel||Santhosh was on a video call with his wife Soumya, a caregiver in Israel, on Tuesday evening when there was a deafening sound and the phone fell from her hand. Soumya had been telling Santhosh about the war-like situation in the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. “Suddenly, there was this huge sound and the phone fell from her hand. It was still connected and I cried ‘Hello, hello’, but there was no response,” Santhosh recalled at his home in Idukki’s Keerithodu on Wednesday. “After a minute-and-a-half, I could hear the voices of some people on the other end. The phone was still connected,” Santhosh said. Sensing danger, he immediately alerted his family members, who got in touch with Soumya’s friends, fellow Malayalis in Ashkelon, and came to know of her death. Soumya, 31, who had been working as a caregiver for an elderly woman in Ashkelon for the past seven years, was killed allegedly in a Palestinian rocket strike. There is no official confirmation of the incident so far. Santhosh said their nine-year-old son was unable to cope with the loss and still awaits his mother’s phone call. “He is awaiting her call,” Santhosh told reporters in Keerithodu, holding back his tears. He said Soumya had been planning to permanently return to Kerala for a better life. Israel and Palestine have been locked in their most tense standoff in years with hundreds of rockets and air strikes being launched everyday across the border. Condoling Soumya’s death, Israel’s envoy to India said her son’s situation reminded him of Moses, the Israeli boy who was orphaned in the terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008. Soumya’s family recalled that she used to often share with them her anguish about massive firings in the Israeli territory by Palestinian militants. Minister of state for external affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Indian embassy in Israel capital Tel Aviv was trying to bring Soumya’s body to India. Muraleedharan, who spoke to the Indian ambassador to Israel, Sanjeev Kumar Singla, over phone, said the Israeli authorities would hand over the body to India after completing all the formalities. The minister said he had telephoned Soumya’s family on Tuesday night to convey his condolences. “Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance. We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides,” Muraleedharan tweeted. The Israeli ambassador to India, Ron Malka, said he had contacted Soumya’s family and offered his condolences. “I just spoke to the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh, the victim of the Hamas terrorist strike. I expressed my sorrow for their unfortunate loss & extended my condolences on behalf of the state of Israel. The whole country is mourning her loss & we are here for them,” he tweeted. Malka added: “My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son… who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks. May God give them strength and courage. Senior Kerala Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said he had written to the Indian ambassador to Israel, urging him to take steps to bring home Soumya’s body. Newly elected MLA and Nationalist Congress Kerala leader Mani C. Kappan condemned the incident. In a Facebook post, Kappan, who represents Pala, said thousands of Malayalis working in Israel were living in fear. He sought the intervention of the central and state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Opposition parties urge Modi to take measures to save India||A host of Opposition parties on Wednesday told the government that its refusal to accept advice had aggravated the Covid situation into an “apocalyptic human tragedy” and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take certain measures to save the country. “Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of India and our people,” a letter from the Opposition said. The letter has been signed by Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee, H.D. Deve Gowda, Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin, Hemant Soren, Farooq Abdullah, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, D. Raja and Sitaram Yechury. The suggested measures ranged from a wider vaccine procurement and universal free vaccination to channelling the Central Vista funds into oxygen and vaccine purchase, assisting the jobless and repealing the new farm laws to protect the agitating farmers against the coronavirus. Modi has so far tended to ignore the Opposition and reject consensual politics. He hasn’t yet acknowledged, let alone answer, letters from his predecessor Manmohan Singh, Congress president Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. How hostile the BJP can be to any Opposition attempt to engage meaningfully with the government even in this crisis is reflected in health minister Harsh Vardhan’s rejoinder to Singh’s letter and BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s dismissal of Sonia’s. By demanding a response, the signatories to the joint Opposition letter have ensured that any silence from Modi would vindicate the charge that he isn’t willing to contemplate a collective approach even towards a crisis threatening to devastate the country. The Opposition’s letter comes at a time when the RSS-BJP, rattled by the hostile climate of opinion across the country, has launched a “Positivity Unlimited” campaign with the intention of changing the narrative. The letter seeks to demolish that project by portraying the government as engaged in perception management at a time the Opposition is fighting to save the people from the deadly pandemic. “The Covid-19 pandemic in our country has assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe. We have repeatedly in the past drawn your attention, independently and jointly, to the various measures that are absolutely imperative for the central government to undertake and implement,” the letter says. “Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy. Without going into all the acts of commission and omission by the central government that have brought the country to such a tragic pass, we are of the firm opinion that the following measures must be undertaken on a war footing by your government.” The letter adds: “Procure vaccines centrally from all available sources — global and domestic. Immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for the vaccines. Stop Central Vista construction; use the allocated money for procuring oxygen and vaccines, instead. “Release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM Cares, to buy more vaccines, oxygen and (the) medical equipment required. Give all jobless at least Rs 6,000 per month. Free distribution of food grains to the needy (over 1 crore tonnes of food grains are currently rotting in central godowns). “Repeal (the new) farm laws to protect lakhs of our annadatas (from) becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people.” Farmers have been protesting the new laws at Delhi’s borders since November 26. The vaccine shortage has affected almost every state, forcing the closure of hundreds of vaccination centres and prompting almost every non-BJP chief minister to express concern. While some states have floated global tenders to procure vaccines, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has contended that the Centre should have procured all the vaccines and made them available to the states free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka to suspend vaccination for people between ages 18 and 44 ||A notice at a public health centre in Bangalore on Wednesday says the Covid-19 vaccine stock is over. The Karnataka government on Wednesday decided to suspend the vaccination for people between 18 and 44 years till further orders, given the shortage of doses. “Today the state government has decided that the vaccine procured directly by the state for vaccination of persons between 18 and 44 years will be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for a second dose,” a notification issued by the government said. “We have already paid money to the two vaccine manufacturers in the country for three crore doses... we have received seven lakh,” Karnataka chief secretary P. Ravi Kumar said. “Since we are not getting adequate vaccines... we are going to issue orders to import,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||PM house can wait, spend on health: Son of late Rajan Mishra||The son of Hindustani classical singer Rajan Mishra, who died of Covid complications on April 25 after futile attempts to secure a ventilator in New Delhi, has said the construction of temples or the “PM’s house” can wait and money should be invested in healthcare to save lives amid the pandemic. Rajnish Mishra told The Telegraph on Wednesday: “If a person like Panditji, a Padma Bhushan awardee, who could have survived if he had got the facilities, did not get them, then what about the common man? “There is no point in giving a person awards or build memorials after he has died. He is not here to enjoy that. Give these facilities to people when they are alive, whoever they are — VIP or not. We are all aware that the healthcare system of our country is completely shattered. If you have money to build temples or the PM’s house or Rashtrapati Bhavan — these can wait. Right now, the money needs to be invested in the healthcare system so other people are not affected the way our family was.” The Centre has been pushing ahead with the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project, which envisages a new Parliament building and a fresh residence for the Prime Minister, despite mounting criticism and calls to use the money instead to fight the pandemic. Several scholars and museum professionals released a petition on Wednesday demanding that the work be stalled. Rajnish Mishra, a Hindustani classical singer of the Banaras gharana like his father, was reacting to a question on a temporary hospital, set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in Varanasi, being named after Rajan Mishra. The signage of the hospital in Rajan Mishra’s hometown and Narendra Modi’s constituency bears pictures of the classical singer and the Prime Minister. Rajnish Mishra told this newspaper: “We are neither happy nor sad, nor do we have anything to do with the hospital named after our father…. We do not want to blame the government or anyone else for his death.” Rajan Mishra passed away at Delhi’s St Stephen’s Hospital where he had been admitted for three days with Covid-19. More than three hours before he was declared dead, Rajan Mishra’s friend and mohan veena maestro Vishwa Mohan Bhatt had tweeted that he needed a ventilator. “Padma Bhushan Pandit Rajan Mishra (classical singer) urgently needs Ventilator. At present, he is in St Stephen hospital, Tees Hazari, Delhi. Please help immediately,” Bhatt had tweeted around 3pm on April 25. Rajan Mishra’s brother and singing partner Sajan Mishra told this correspondent on Wednesday that despite the family reaching out to top authorities, a ventilator could not be arranged immediately and Rajan Mishra was declared dead around 6.30pm that day after suffering two heart attacks. Sajan Mishra said: “I am happy that people will be treated in my brother’s name…. As soon as it (appeals to arrange a ventilator for Rajan Mishra) was made on Twitter, BJP spokesman Sambit Patra called me up and said that 95 per cent of the arrangements had been made to admit him at Gangaram (hospital), just bring him. Sanjay Singh (Aam Aadmi Party MP) had arranged an ambulance which was ready outside, but he had the (heart) attack so quickly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: UGC asks universities to manage situation themselves||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked universities to manage the Covid situation themselves, offering no financial or medical help at a time campuses are witnessing death and illness among teachers and other staff. The UGC’s letter comes just when teachers and students have appealed to authorities to help the universities set up and run isolation and Covid care centres on their campuses. However, the letter mentions no such assistance and leaves the varsities to fend for themselves while mouthing pious generalities such as: ‣ Set up a Covid task force and a helpline; create teams of trained volunteers. ‣ Promote Covid-appropriate behaviour on the campus. ‣ Arrange mental health counsellors. ‣ Motivate everyone to engage in activities that boost mental and physical fitness. ‣ Encourage people on the campus to get vaccinated. ‣ Take suitable welfare measures for “stakeholders”. ‣ Let the initiatives reach those at the greatest risk. “I urge upon vice-chancellors of all universities and principals of all the colleges to continue their concerted efforts and reinforce their support to students, teachers, staff, officers and other stakeholders to keep the people in good health, safe and informed during these difficult times,” said the letter, signed by UGC chairman D.P. Singh. “We must come forward and stand united against Covid-19 pandemic with a strong sense of responsibility and collectively help the people in distress.” Several dismayed teachers and students described the letter as “eyewash”. Many teachers and other staff are staying on campuses amid the Covid resurgence while most students are away. Former Delhi University executive council member Abha Dev Habib said universities needed to set up their own Covid care and isolation facilities. For setting up such facilities, the universities needed funds and medical aid, Habib added. “The UGC is asking the university community to help each other and not expect any help from the government. This letter is meaningless. The university community is (already) helping each other,” Habib said. Delhi University’s existing health centre is not equipped to treat Covid patients. The DU teachers’ association had last week written to the education ministry to help the university set up Covid care facilities but no reply has come. An email from this newspaper to UGC chairman Singh seeking his reaction to the demand from students and teachers for financial assistance to campuses has remained unanswered. A UGC official said, requesting anonymity, that the letter had been written to reinforce the safety protocols, which are key to preventing the spread of the infection. Bahujan Samaj Party MP Danish Ali has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking help for Aligarh Muslim University, where about 50 former and serving teachers and other staff have died of Covid. “AMU needs an immediate visit by a central team to assess the situation and take actions,” Ali wrote. He also pleaded for financial help and equipment like an oxygen plant at the campus medical college. Delhi High Court on Tuesday censured JNU for its lack of “swiftness and alacrity” in responding to requests from students and teachers to set up Covid care centres and oxygen production facilities on the campus. JNU’s teacher and student bodies had requested the university authorities and Delhi government to convert the campus guesthouses into isolation centres and Covid care facilities and start an oxygen plant on the campus. “Considering the rigour of the current Covid-19 pandemic wave and the correspondence which has been placed on record, there is no doubt that the JNU administration ought to have reacted with swiftness and alacrity,” Justice Pratibha M Singh’s order says. “The university is bound to take care of the health of the students and teachers, and make available the facilities, to the extent possible, within the university campus, especially considering the prevalent shortages for hospital beds etc,” the order said. The matter has been listed for Thursday, when JNU authorities will have to say what action they have taken. N. Sai Balaji, a PhD student at JNU, said neither the UGC nor the university was concerned about the well-being of students and staff. “Many students have lost their family members, including earning members, and are in no position to support their education,” he said. “The UGC should come up with a scheme (so that) students with genuine concerns are provided help in terms of scholarship, counselling and vaccination.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre to decide which states will get how many doses ||A letter from a Covid-19 vaccine maker to the Delhi government and an affidavit by the Centre in the Supreme Court suggest the Centre will decide which states will get how many doses and no state can order extra. The two documents, health experts have said, indicate that the Centre will continue to control vaccine supplies to the states even for beneficiaries aged between 18 and 45 years for whom the Centre had earlier said the states and private hospitals can procure vaccines on their own. The experts said the May 11 letter from Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech to the Delhi government and the Centre’s May 9 affidavit together illustrate how India — the world’s largest vaccine producer — was now struggling to procure doses because of poor planning. Bharat Biotech has told Delhi the company is dispatching vaccines under “directives of concerned government officials” and therefore “cannot make any additional supplies” as requested by Delhi. The Delhi government said on Wednesday no vaccination centre in Delhi would from Thursday be able to administer Covaxin to people aged between 18 and 45 because of vaccine unavailability. The Centre has in its affidavit said that vaccine distribution among the states would be based on “equitable and rational criteria” to eliminate the possibility of some states’ higher bargaining power hurting residents of other states. Under the revised vaccination policy that came into force on May 1, the Centre will procure 50 per cent of the available doses that will be distributed among the states and will be used only in people 45 years or older. The states and private hospitals can use the other 50 per cent to vaccinate adults younger than 45. While the states seek to procure vaccines from the companies, the Centre has “in consultation with vaccine manufacturers” determined how many doses each state can get depending on its population of adults younger than 45. “This exercise is absolutely essential and this discipline is mandatory so as to have uniform vaccination throughout the country,” the Centre has said in its affidavit. Health experts and others say the Centre’s first announcement on April 19 to allow vaccination for those aged between 18 and 45 suggested the states and private hospitals could procure vaccines on their own from the manufacturers. “The affidavit contradicts the first announcement via press release that the manufacturers were free to supply to the states and private hospitals from the other than (central) government quota,” Jairam Ramesh, Congress leader and former Union minister, told The Telegraph. “Now the affidavit says that the allocation to the states is based on population. We have now had three policies in three weeks.” For the month of May, the Centre has said 20 million doses — 5 million doses of Covaxin and 15 million doses of Covishield, produced by the Serum Institute of India — would be available for procurement by the states for possible use in adults under 45. The allocation for Bengal is 1,057,610 Covishield doses and 366,790 Covaxin doses. Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state, will receive 2,553,340 Covishield doses and 885,510 Covaxin doses. Delhi will receive 267,690 Covishield and 92,840 Covaxin doses. The Delhi government has said it wants to inoculate about 300,000 people a day. “It is embarrassing that India should struggle for vaccines,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “We are the world’s leading producers of vaccines and have some of the best vaccine researchers in the country.” John and others believe the vaccine shortage stems primarily from the failure of the vaccine policy makers to prepare for the number of doses India would need through advance investments or through purchase pacts with manufacturers the way other countries have done. Neither the Centre nor the vaccine makers have said how many doses would be available for the private hospitals in each state this month. The affidavit has said the Centre is procuring 21,250,000 doses for the states during May for people 45 years or older and allocating 20 million doses for the younger adults. Since the doses are distributed in a 50:50 ratio, 1,250,000 doses remain unaccounted for and, experts believe, could be intended for distribution among private hospitals. But experts say the total allocation of 42.25 million doses for May is surprising because the production capacity was expected to be about 80 to 90 million doses per month. “We need transparency on production,” Ramesh said. “Sadly this has not been forthcoming. Lack of this information makes it impossible for the states to plan and budget their payment to vaccine companies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: No help, Modi bhakt from Agra dies||An Agra resident who had “devoted his life” to Narendra Modi and had proclaimed that the Prime Minister followed him on Twitter, has passed away from Covid complications after his sister’s direct appeal to the leader on social media for medical help allegedly went unheeded. Amit Jaiswal Jain, 42, who according to some media reports threatened to beat up anybody even remotely critical of Modi, died in a Mathura hospital on April 29, 10 days after testing positive for Covid and four days after his sister Sonu Alagh had appealed to the Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Twitter for help to procure remdesivir and ensure proper treatment. The sister had tweeted from Jaiswal’s Twitter handle on April 25: “Myself Sonu Alagh, Mr Amit Jaiswal’s sister. This is to inform that we are facing issues regarding arrangement of Ramdesivir (sic) and treatment. He is admitted in NAYATI hospital, Mathura. We need your help. He is not well.” Sonu had tagged @PMOIndia, @narendramodi and @myogiadityanath. Late on Wednesday, Jaiswal’s Twitter account could no longer be found on the microblogging site. Sonu disconnected the phone when this newspaper called her up on Wednesday evening, only saying: “I don’t know anything.” A source close to the family said Sonu and her husband Rajendra had torn a poster of Modi that adorned Jaiswal’s car and also taken down a hoarding bearing a picture of the leader in front of his house. Rajendra told The Print web portal: “Amit ne poori zindagi PM Modi ke liye nikal di. Modi ne uske liye kya kiya? Aise PM sahab ki humein kya zaroorat? Humne poster phaadh ke nikaal diya (Amit spent his entire life fighting for PM Modi. What did Modi do for him? We tore off his poster).” The source close to the family said Jaiswal, who used to trade in hoardings and banners, and his mother Raj Kamal needed hospitalisation but could not find a bed in Agra. “They could be admitted only after four days in a Mathura hospital. He died on April 29 and his mother on May 9. He had devoted his life to Modi but the Prime Minister ditched him. The first thing his sister did after returning to Agra on Monday was that she tore Modi’s poster from her brother’s car and brought down a small hoarding with the Prime Minister’s picture in front of their house,” the source said. “Amit used to attend shakhas of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh every day. Some RSS workers had visited the family in Agra on Tuesday to express their condolence and cursed Modi for being so selfish,” the source claimed. The New York Times had in a report on February 4, 2020, said that Jaiswal wanted the Adityanath government to add a chapter in schoolbooks on Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. “Amit Jaiswal Jain, an advertising professional in the town of Agra, believes Godse is a hero because he tried to stop Gandhi’s push for India to help the newly formed Pakistan,” the newspaper had report. It had quoted Jaiswal as saying: “Gandhi should be respected but the new India should not tolerate the castigation of Godse.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: 56-year-old cop who helps with funeral pyres in Delhi ||As he guides a grieving family, which had just arrived at the Lodhi Crematorium, ASI Rakesh Chaudhury also keeps an eye on around eight-nine funeral pyres he helped set up. “On a daily basis, there are 20-30 bodies of coronavirus patients that we help cremate here,” assistant police sub-inspector Rakesh Chaudhury tells PTI. He tells the bereaved relatives of the victims where they can get the material required for conducting the last rites, consoles them, at times put firewood on bodies, and even prepares funeral pyres himself when families don’t. “Many a time there is just  one attendant with the body. Sometimes even when there are more they do not want to touch the body. They either sit in the parking lot or on the road, and we carry the body and help in cremation,” he says. Chaudhary says he has helped cremate 1,300-1,400 bodies in the past one month. The 56-year-old father of three was posted at the crematorium on April 13 when the city had just begun to witness a sudden spike in coronavirus cases and deaths in the second wave. Chaudhury had joined the Delhi Police in 1986. His family lives back home in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, while he stays in the barracks of Nizamuddin Police Station, reporting for duty every day from 7am to 8pm. “I talk to my family members daily over a video call. They are quite supportive. The only thing they tell me ‘just stay safe and continue doing what you are doing’. I feel that helping people in distress is my duty,” he said. His family has his elderly parents, wife and three children — two sons and a daughter. The ASI said he had postponed his daughter’s wedding scheduled for May 7. “There is so much sadness all around and it doesn’t look good that we hold a wedding,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Plea in Supreme Court for free vaccines for all citizens||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which claims to espouse the cause of Dalits, Muslims, Adivasis, backward classes and other vulnerable sections, on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court, seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are given free to every citizen as a matter of fundamental right. The organisation, in a petition filed by its president Sharfuddin Ahmad through advocate Selvin Raja, has pleaded that only a pan-India free vaccine policy would help in combating the deadly virus as the concept of social distancing would not work in a densely populated country like India. The petition added: “…By providing free Covid-19 vaccination, a large population, particularly the poorer sections of the society, would be vaccinated...” The petition stated that many cities have reported a chronic shortage of hospital beds and cited disturbing reports of people dying without getting timely treatment. It said: “Several state governments said that they are creating new facilities but experts said that it’s going to be hard to keep up with the pace of the rising number of infections. India has been consistently reporting more than 400,000 cases on a day. Nearly all ICU beds in the country are occupied. The number of daily deaths has risen sharply in the second wave. Crematoriums and graveyards have been running day and night in several cities and people have to wait for hours to get the deceased/loved ones cremated or buried. “Experts say that the actual number of deaths could be much higher. The Centre… owes constitutional obligation/responsibility to provide the anti-Covid vaccines for free of cost for those persons who cannot afford. “The situations in India are graver in view of the density of the population. The maintenance of social distancing is also hardly possible in view of the demography ghetto inhabitations and traditional habits, so the prevention is better than the cure and every person in India needs uniform and compulsory vaccination, otherwise in view of the contagious nature of the pandemic, if a little population is left without vaccination on account of constraints of funds even the vaccine to majority of persons may undo and the country shall remain always vulnerable to the pandemic...” “...It is imperative that the Union government may formulate a uniform pan-India policy for free and equitable vaccination. And the vaccination may be provided free of cost to every person...” the petition added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Change to law governing foreign donations choking off aid||Bake sales on Instagram. Online fund-raisers involving Hollywood celebrities. Pledges of aid from companies like Mastercard and Google. A middle-of-the-night flight by a FedEx cargo plane transporting thousands of oxygen concentrators and masks. India’s devastating surge in Covid-19 cases has galvanised corporations, non-profit organisations and individuals in the US into raising millions of dollars and sending medical supplies to the nation of 1.4 billion. But a sweeping change to India’s decades-old law governing foreign donations is choking off foreign aid just when the country needs it desperately. The amendment, passed by the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September with little warning, limits international charities that donate to local nonprofits. The effect is far-reaching. Almost overnight, the amendment gutted a reliable source of funding for tens of thousands of non-governmental organisations, or NGOs. It prompted international charities to cut back giving that supported local efforts — and supplemented the government’s work — in fields such as health, education and gender. The amended law has forced newly formed charities to rush to find NGOs that can accept their donations without tripping legal wires. And it has smothered non-profits in red tape: To receive foreign funds, charities must get affidavits and notary stamps and open bank accounts with the State Bank of India. “Everyone was caught off guard, especially given the role that NGOs played in Covid relief last year,” said Nishant Pandey, chief executive of the American India Foundation, one of the largest US non-profits working in India. “To come with an amendment like that in the middle of pandemic was problematic.” Pandey’s foundation, which has raised $23 million for Covid-19 relief efforts, wired $3 million to its affiliate on the ground on May 5 to build 2,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. A week later, the money still hadn’t cleared, Pandey said. He attributed the hold-up to the new bank requirement; funnelling aid through a single bank during a time of overwhelming need can make the process frustratingly slow. The Modi government has said the amended law would strengthen compliance, improve monitoring and bring more accountability to an important source of funding in the non-profit sector. The government has also encouraged international donors to contribute to official charities, including one called the PM CARES Fund, which was founded last year and is controlled by Modi and other government leaders. The government, however, provides little clarity around how donations will be used. The ministry of home affairs in New Delhi did not respond to calls or an emailed request for comment. The new regulations have “paralysed” India’s non-profit sector, a group of 13 NGOs said in a letter that was recently sent to various Indian and US government bodies and shared with The New York Times. The regulatory changes have forced NGOs to “divert scarce time, bandwidth and human resources” towards compliance rather than delivering relief during the pandemic, the letter said. The signatories — including the Centre for Advancement of Philanthropy, the National Foundation for India and the Centre for Social Impact and Philanthropy — sought a delay or relaxation of the new restrictions during the crisis. “The organisations best placed to respond to community needs at the grass roots in a timely, agile manner are unable to access these donors,” the letter said. India’s needs are pressing.  Medical oxygen is in short supply. Hospitals are turning away patients. Only a tiny fraction of the population has been vaccinated. NGOs help provide basic health services in India, picking up the slack in a country where government spending in that area totals 1.2 per cent of gross domestic product. The US spends close to 18 per cent on healthcare. When the pandemic first surged in India, in March 2020, Modi asked NGOs to help provide supplies and protective gear and to spread the message on social distancing. At the same time, India’s relationship with NGOs — a catchall term for the roughly three million non-profits working across the country, including religious, educational and advocacy groups — has occasionally been fraught. The original legislation, called the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, was passed in 1976 by the government of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi with the aim of limiting foreign involvement in domestic politics. In 2010, the law was amended to put some curbs on foreign investment. In 2015, a year after Modi came to power, his government tightened restrictions on some prominent charitable groups, including the Ford Foundation, citing national security. In September last year, the Indian government raided the premises and froze the bank accounts of Amnesty International, forcing it to close its India operations. Amnesty said the actions were reprisals for criticising India’s human rights record. The government said the organisation had violated India’s rules on foreign funding. The ties between Indian NGOs and their foreign benefactors had long been symbiotic: Global foundations provided the money, while local non-profits brought the expertise. They obtained a licence under India’s law so that they could accept foreign funds, but relied largely on donations — called sub-grants — from foreign non-profits that worked in India rather than solicited grants directly from abroad. Last year, about a quarter of India’s NGO funding — roughly $2.2 billion — came from foreign donors, according to Bain & Company, the consulting firm. The September amendment changed the landscape drastically. “It came into existence so quickly that there was not the kind of public input or eyes on it that could tell you why it came into existence,” said Ted Hart, the chief executive of Charities Aid Foundation of America, an Alexandria, Virginia, non-profit. “It was a shock.” Charities Aid Foundation’s India counterpart was forced to relinquish a major part of its business model, which involved making grants to smaller nonprofits that could carry out the work, Hart said. Now, both entities are directly managing the programmes they support rather than sub-granting, he said. “Regulations are happening,” Hart said. “We have to comply.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Positivity won't help people breathe, Congress tells Centre||The Congress on Wednesday said positivity could be spread through constructive action, arguing that emphasis should be on providing immediate relief to citizens devastated by the pandemic instead of “hiding the truth of India’s pain” through propaganda. The Opposition party was responding to the “Positivity Unlimited” lecture series started by the RSS and the BJP’s all-out effort to defend the Narendra Modi government’s performance in fighting Covid-19. The Congress ran a counter-campaign saying the ruling establishment wanted to hide its sins by using the power of propaganda. The Congress’s campaign asked a key question: “Will positivity help the patients breathe?” Among the several messages posted by the party on social media was this: “The Modi government and the RSS plan to start a ‘Positivity Unlimited’ campaign to dispel criticism. What they fail to understand once again is that propaganda will never hide the truth of India’s pain.” Rahul Gandhi set the tone by condemning the positivity campaign as a fraud on the people of the country. The Congress MP tweeted: “The false assurance of positivity is a cruel joke on the healthcare workers, those families who have lost their members and the patients who are struggling with the crisis of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds. Burying your head in the sand is not positivity, it is a fraud on the citizens.” In another tweet, Rahul said: “Tragic news is coming ceaselessly. Basic problems haven’t been solved yet. For how long will our countrymen suffer the cruelty of this government during this pandemic? Those who are responsible are in hiding.” The Congress leader appeared to be referring to Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Home is the nodal ministry to manage the pandemic. Both Modi and Shah have vanished from the public eye after the Bengal elections, as the pandemic crisis intensified. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “Negative news is coming from every corner — people are dying because of oxygen shortage, crematoriums don’t have space and bodies are floating in the Ganga. Lakhs of people are losing their jobs. The vaccination drive has slowed down drastically. “How can you tell the people to be positive? They are looking for ‘aapda mein awsar (opportunity in crisis). The government is profiteering from people’s miseries. You can spread positivity through positive action, not mere propaganda. Why are you being so cruel, what sin have the people committed by reposing trust in you?” Vallabh added: “The central government is still charging GST on life-saving drugs and equipment. Vaccine 5 per cent, remdesivir 12 per cent, oxygen concentrators 12 per cent, sanitiser 18 per cent, ambulance 28 per cent, face shield 18 per cent. “Our calculation shows that the Centre will collect Rs 6,000 crore in a year only on three items — vaccines, remdesivir and oxygen concentrators. With this money, 20 crore people can be vaccinated. Or, 12 lakh oxygen concentrators can be bought. Or, 1.2 lakh ventilators can be purchased.” He confronted finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who has claimed that the removal of GST will increase prices of these items. “Illogic and sophistry cannot fool us. When we say removal of GST, we mean exemption on the raw materials as well. There are a hundred ways to exempt GST on the final product. If you don’t understand, call a meeting of the GST Council and our finance ministers will explain to you. Or I can give you a tutorial on how to do it,” Vallabh said. Several Congress leaders lamented that the RSS-BJP had chosen propaganda to counter the criticism coming its way instead of intensifying good work. The Congress has set up a central control room in Delhi that is being looked after by a “Covid task force” headed by veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad. All the state units have been asked to open control rooms and launch helplines to provide assistance to the people. Individual leaders are also helping people; the Youth Congress under the leadership of B.V. Srinivas has earned national and international fame by serving those bearing the brunt of the pandemic. While leaders like Deepender Hooda have formed their own teams to reach out to people, Sachin Pilot has launched a helpline in Rajasthan. A Twitter handle called “Pilot With People” has received thousands of requests for help since being opened on Tuesday, with a dedicated team formed by the former deputy chief minister arranging medicines, oxygen and hospital beds across the state. While the Karnataka Congress is running a free ambulance service, most other state units are feeding the poor or supplying food packets to the relatives of patients in hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: 'Incorrect assumption' led India to 'dire straits', says Faucci||India made the “incorrect assumption” that it was finished with the Covid-19 pandemic and opened up prematurely that has left the country in such “dire straits”, America’s top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci has told senators. India has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds. “The reason that India is in such dire straits now is that they had an original surge and made the incorrect assumption that they were finished with it, and what happened, they opened up prematurely and wind up having a surge right now that we’re all very well aware of is extremely devastating,” Fauci told the US Senate Health, Education, Labour and Pensions Committee during a hearing on Tuesday on the Covid-19 response. Dr Fauci, who is the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, is also the chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden. Chairing the hearing, Senator Patty Murray said that the surge of Covid-19 that is devastating India is a painful reminder really that the US can’t end the pandemic here until it ends it everywhere. “India’s outbreak underscores the need for a robust public health infrastructure in the US to respond appropriately to this pandemic and future outbreaks, as well,” Senator Murray said as she asked Fauci what can the US learn from India’s outbreak. “One of the important things is don’t ever underestimate the situation,” Fauci said as he referred to India’s incorrect assumption and premature opening up. “The second thing is preparedness with regard to public health, preparedness, which we, as a lesson learned for future pandemics, have to realise that we need to continue to build up our local public health infrastructure, which over the last decades we have let actually in many respects go into disarray, likely because of our successes in controlling so many diseases,” Fauci said. The other lesson that is learned is that this is a global pandemic that requires a global response, and one has to pay attention to the “responsibility that we have, not only for our own country but to join with other countries to make sure that we have the access to interventions, particularly vaccines throughout the world,” he said. “Because if it continues to have dynamics of virus anywhere in the world, we have a threat here... particularly with variants, and you know there’s one variant in India that is also a new variant… So those are just a few of the lessons that I believe we can take from what’s going on in India,” the 80-year-old leading physician and immunologist said. Senator Murray said that the deadly outbreak in India is a heartbreaking reminder of what can happen when this virus spreads unchecked, when it mutates into more contagious, more deadly strains and when it overwhelms healthcare systems. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: How Dharavi fought the surge, again||Farhana Shaikh used to recoil in disgust when she went to the communal toilet in Dharavi. But since the pandemic struck, efforts to fight Covid-19 have dramatically improved public sanitation in one of Asia’s largest slums. New cases have plunged in the Mumbai slum in recent weeks as officials bolstered anti-virus measures first put in place last year — from mass testing to disinfections in public areas, including bathrooms. “The toilet is being cleaned every day since the last year as against once a week earlier. There’s soap and sanitiser and a box for disposing sanitary pads that were otherwise strewn around,” Shaikh, 30, said. “People are also more cautious now: they are using masks and sanitisers... exposure to deaths and infections has made everyone fearful,” said the mother of one. Home to 850,000 people cramped in 55,000 mostly one-room homes, Dharavi’s confirmed coronavirus cases fell to nine on Monday — down from a one-day peak of 99 a month ago, according to local government data. Residents and local officials say that is largely the result of lessons learned during last year’s first wave of cases, when Dharavi defied expectations by tackling an initial surge in infections. A testing protocol, including free tests for tens of thousands of residents, was revived as cases crept into double digits, fever camps were set up to scan for symptoms and quarantine facilities set up last year were reopened. Despite vaccine shortages, announcements have blared out from loudspeakers across the slum, urging residents to get vaccinated. Another campaign sought to overcome vaccine hesitancy by offering free soap to anyone getting their jab. “There is a strong community outreach, contact tracing continues and toilets are being deep cleaned with jet sprays,” said Yusuf Kabir, a water, sanitation and health specialist with Unicef, listing factors that helped the slum turn the tide. “No one can guarantee it won’t be affected in the third wave. But Dharavi is not complacent,” he said. Wary of Dharavi’s potential to become a Covid-19 nightmare, Mumbai’s civic officials were closely monitoring cases in the neighbourhood when India’s deadly second wave took hold in March. Initially, the slum’s quarantine centres were empty. “Everybody sensed if Dharavi was fine, Mumbai was fine. We slightly misjudged Dharavi’s quiet and calm as everything under control,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner with Mumbai’s civic body. Cases in Mumbai and Dharavi steadily increased through March, peaking in April to a daily high of 11,000 cases, before steadily coming down to less than 2,000 on Monday. “The 15 days from April 10 to 25 were horrible... We were going mad,” Dighavkar said, adding that lessons learned in the slum had helped the city as a whole respond to the crisis. “We adopted the Dharavi model of aggressive testing and screening. And that actually helped,” Dighavkar said. Despite a cautious optimism that the worst is over, officials are already making plans for a possible third wave.  Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: UP villages count their dead as second wave surges ||Twenty-five people died in the past one week at village Itarra in Ghatampur tehsil of Kanpur district after developing flu-like symptoms, residents say. Patara, Paras, Bhadras and Jahangirabad — all villages in Ghatampur — have each lost at least 10 people to suspected Covid around the same period. These are small villages, each with a population between 500 and 1,000. None of them had witnessed a single Covid death during the outbreak’s first wave last year, residents told The Telegraph. But the second wave seems to be playing havoc in rural Uttar Pradesh although the state government seems to have no figures, especially the death toll, which earned it a rap from Allahabad High Court on Tuesday. None of the dead in Itarra had undergone Covid tests, conceded Ram Naresh, whose father Raghunadan Verma died on Tuesday night after four days of fever and breathing problems. “The villagers don’t get themselves tested because nobody would carry them to the cremation ground if they died after testing positive,” he said over the phone. Nor has the government sent teams to conduct testing as it did last year, people across villages said. But what other than an epidemic could have killed so many in so short a time in a particular area, a villager asked. “And the symptoms are consistent too.” Naresh said: “The infection started in this area late in April when the campaign for the (April 15-29) panchayat elections was at its peak.” His fellow Itarra resident Ram Khilawan Prajapati, who lost his father Sita Ram four days ago to suspected Covid, said: “A large number of political workers campaigned despite having mild fever — they just took paracetamol. But they soon began showing other Covid-like symptoms such as diarrhoea, skin rashes, high fever and breathing problems.” Prajapati reeled off the names of some of those who had died in Itarra in the couple of few days: “Mohammad Jameel, Shivram Tiwari, Guru Prasad, Kunti Devi, Som Wanti, Ram Bali....” “The villagers were confident they wouldn’t get infected because they had read in newspapers that immunity was very high among rural people. But the second wave proved it false. We are losing two to three villagers every day,” Prajapati said. All the Covid dead in Itarra were above 60 but several youths are ill too. Santosh Agnihotri, a resident of Bhadras, which has lost 10 people who showed Covid-like symptoms, said the villagers had contacted the health department after five deaths and were assured a team would be sent. “But not a single doctor or paramedic has arrived so far,” he said. “Every house in the village has at least one patient with multiple Covid-like symptoms.” He said a government team had visited Bhadras “sometime between March and July last year” and randomly tested 30 people — none of whom tested positive. But this time the government has sent nobody, he said. Similar reports are coming from elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh too. Afsana Begum, a resident of village Khuznawar in Saharanpur district, told reporters on Wednesday: “At least 45 people have died in the village in the past 20 days. They get fever and die after three-four days.” She added: “Two of the dead had tested Covid-positive at a private lab. The government’s team never visited our village in the past six months.” Adityanath on Wednesday seemed to suggest that his government was Covid-testing people in almost all the state’s 107,000 villages and monitoring their care. He tweeted from his handle @myogioffice at 12.04pm: “(A total of) 21,242 supervisors have been deployed to check infection in the rural areas of the state and to monitor Covid management. (Altogether) 141,610 teams from the health department are providing medical kits after door-to-door tests in 97,941 villages.” The tweet didn’t explain what “medical kits” — the exact words spelt in Hindi in the post — referred to. Health department sources in Lucknow said they only had one report of a testing drive, and it covered just five districts — Adityanath’s turf of Gorakhpur and the adjoining Basti, Deoria, Kushinagar and Maharajganj. “The health department’s team went door to door visiting 26 lakh households in these districts’ villages between May 1 and 5 and found 45,449 villagers with fever and gave them medicines. Only 764 of them were found Covid-positive,” said A.K. Singh, nodal officer for the Basti division. He said he wouldn’t know about such drives elsewhere in the state. A doctor at a government hospital in Kanpur sought anonymity to say: “Our seniors ask us to visit the villages in our personal vehicles. They provide us with masks, sanitisers and antigen test kits but we need a full body shield. The villagers ask for the RT-PCR test and shout at us when we say we can’t conduct it. It’s not possible to go there without security.” A health department official, asking not to be named, said: “We are not collecting the details of deaths from the rural areas. The districts are witnessing at least 70 deaths a day, mostly from Covid. I’m saying this on the basis of bodies reaching the cremation grounds.” Uttar Pradesh has 75 districts. Allahabad High Court had on Tuesday rapped the Adityanath government for hiding key facts about Covid treatment facilities and the number of deaths, and failing to comply with earlier orders on furnishing hospitals with life-saving equipment and drugs. On Wednesday, at least 40 families left Paras village in Ghatampur. “We are going to our relatives’ places in Kanpur city to save ourselves from Covid, which seems to have turned more severe in the villages than the cities,” a villager told reporters, declining to give his name. “This would not have happened had the Election Commission postponed the panchayat elections by a few months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Allahabad HC raps Yogi govt for hiding facts about treatment facilities and death toll||Allahabad High Court has rapped the Yogi Adityanath government for hiding key facts about Covid treatment facilities and the number of deaths, and failing to comply with earlier orders on furnishing hospitals with life-saving equipment and drugs. “Neither required information as mandated by our order has been given nor, otherwise, compliance has been made (with) our various directions,” the bench of Justices Siddharth Varma and Ajit Kumar observed on Tuesday, reacting to an affidavit filed by Uttar Pradesh home secretary Badugu Deva Paulson. The observations, uploaded on the court website on Wednesday, came during the hearing of a public interest plea. Some of the court’s observations: ‣ Portals: The district portals “seem not to have been updated” with the latest bulletins from government and private Covid hospitals on matters such as bed and oxygen availability. ‣ Drugs, equipment: “The proper procurement and supply of life-savings drugs (and) life support systems like BiPaP machines and high-flow nasal cannula masks have not been made available to the various hospitals. “It is strange that (Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial) Medical College, Meerut, does not have any TrueNat machine (for Covid testing) whereas (the) government claimed to have made it available in all government hospitals and directed all private hospitals to have it compulsorily.” ‣ Testing: “Even the statistics given in the affidavit qua testing in (the) state surprisingly disclose that (the) number of testing has been reduced gradually.” ‣ Ambulances: “The availability of ambulances with advance life support system is also very less.” Hospital diet: “No details have been given regarding food supplied to hospitals of Level-1 (Covid care centres for mild cases), Level-2 (moderate cases requiring oxygen, for instance) and Level-3 (full-fledged hospitals) category. Only fact stated is that Rs 100 is allocated per patient in Level-1 category hospital. It is well known that (a) Covid patient needs highly nutritious food that should include fruits and milk in (the) daily diet and we fail to understand as to how with Rs 100 per capita budget the government is managing three times meal in Level-1 category hospital with 2,100 required calories. No details have been given regarding Level-2 and Level-3 hospitals.” ‣ Death toll: The court castigated the Uttar Pradesh government for failing to provide the state-wide death figures the bench had sought, and suggested that its lawyers may have orally underreported the toll during the hearings. “We further find that (state-wide) figures of death have not been shown date-wise between 19th April, 2021, and 2nd May, 2021. If we consider the report(s) of nodal officers of Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Gautam Budh Nagar and Kanpur, the scene emerges otherwise than the picture shown (about) figures of deaths,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha eases vaccination ID rule for the vulnerable||The Odisha government has decided to vaccinate vulnerable people even if they don’t have the required identity proof. District collectors have been asked to identify such groups and make arrangements for their vaccination. Additional chief secretary and head of the health and family welfare department P.K. Mohapatra said: “Process has begun to vaccinate all these people. In all the phases of Covid-19 vaccination drive, it was made mandatory for the beneficiaries to register themselves on the cowin portal for which identity and eligibility of the beneficiaries was required to be established through one of the seven prescribed ID proofs but some vulnerable groups of citizens may not possess any of the seven prescribed identity cards. “Such vulnerable persons cannot be denied vaccines for the lack of identity proof. Hence, there is a need for special consideration in the case of such vulnerable population as these people are also at risk of Covid-19 infection.” The vulnerable groups include nomads, sadhus and saints from different sects and religions, inmates of mental health institutions, senior citizens in the old age homes, road side beggars, people residing on streets and in rehabilitation centres. All the municipal corporations have been asked to initiate steps for preparations for their vaccination. Odisha’s number of active Covid cases is inching towards the one lakh mark, reaching 98,230 on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
