14-05-2021||India||Plea in SC to cancel Class 12 exams in view of Covid-19||A plea has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre to cancel the class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The petition filed by an advocate said the results of Class 12 students be declared based on 'objective methodology' within a specified time frame. "Conducting Class 12 board examination is not possible because of surging Covid-19 cases. Even online or offline examinations are not feasible because of an unprecedented pandemic. Delay in the declaration of Class 12 results will hamper students taking admission in foreign universities", the petition said. The petition filed by lawyer Mamta Sharma has made the Centre, Central Board of Secondary Education and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination as parties in the case. The plea contended that due to the unprecedented health emergency and surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, it is not possible to conduct examinations and any further delay would cause irreparable loss to the future of students. Meanwhile, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday that it has not taken any decision yet on class 12 board exams even as a section of students and parents have been demanding cancellation of exams in view of the pandemic situation. The board had on April 14 announced cancellation of class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Rajya Sabha rules out possibility of holding parliamentary meetings||Virtual meetings of parliamentary standing committees cannot take place as it requires an amendment in rules which is not possible as the Parliament is not in session, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat stated in a letter to Leader of Opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge, sources said on Friday. Earlier this week, Kharge had urged Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to allow virtual meetings of parliamentary standing committees, saying the Parliament cannot be a mute spectator to people's suffering. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairman, Kharge had sought his intervention, saying that parliamentary panels can contribute to the ongoing endeavours in containing this pandemic and providing relief to people. A similar demand was also made by TMC Floor Leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O' Brien. Responding to Kharge's demand, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat wrote a letter, saying that presiding officers of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have discussed the matter. In a similar fashion during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the Rajya Sabha chairman and the Lok Sabha speaker had decided to refer holding of virtual meetings of the committees to the Rules Committee in lieu of the existing rules and confidentiality clause, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said according to the letter. As physical meetings of the committees were being held regularly, following the guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for considering the matter by the Rules Committees in both the Houses, it stated. The meetings of the committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves for the better, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said, adding, "the issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the session as any amendment to the rules can be approved by respective houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committee". In wake of the pandemic, Opposition parties had also demanded for a virtual session of the Parliament. But, both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha made arrangements for holding the sessions physically, with the Houses sitting in different shifts and observing social distancing among members. A similar approach was followed in parliamentary standing committee meetings, and the members were instructed to wear masks and sit at six feet distance from each other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Tauktae likely to intensify into 'very severe cyclonic' storm, says IMD||The depression in the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" on May 17 and cross the Gujarat coast a day later, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. The weather condition has intensified into a deep depression. It is very likely to further intensify into cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' by Saturday morning. It is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm by Saturday night. From May 16-19, it is very likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" with a wind speed of 150-160 kilometres per hour gusting up to 175 kmph, Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by the morning of May 18. The IMD has alerted the state along the western coast. It said the Lakshadweep Islands will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places on May 15 and heavy falls at isolated places on May 16. Heavy to very heavy falls are expected at a few places on May 15 and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on May 16-17. The ghat districts of Tamil Nadu are expected to witness light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy falls and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are very likely on May 14 and 15. Karnataka (coastal and adjoining ghat districts) are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few paces with extremely heavy falls at isolated places on May 15 and heavy falls at isolated places on May 16. Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy falls on May 15-16. The coastal districts of Saurashtra in Gujarat are likely to receive rainfall from May 16 and heavy to very heavy falls are expected on May 17. Heavy to very heavy falls at a few places, extremely heavy falls at isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch are likely on May 18, the IMD said. The name 'Tauktae' has been given by Myanmar which means 'gecko'. This is going to be the first cyclonic storm of this year along the Indian coast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||13 more Covid patients die at Goa hospital after oxygen glitch during ‘dark hours’||Thirteen more Covid-19 patients died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours of Friday, taking to 75 the number of people who have succumbed at the government-run facility in the last four days. A senior health department official’s statement confirmed that the horror at the GMCH was continuing even as the Goa bench of Bombay High Court was  hearing petitions on deaths during the "dark hours" at the premier hospital. While the state government has not revealed the exact cause of the deaths at the GMCH, it has told the high court that there were "logistics issues" related to supply of medical oxygen to patients. On Thursday, advocate general Devidas Pangam had told a bench of Justices Nitin Sambre and Mahesh Sonak that there were “logistical issues involved in manoeuvring the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold (group of large gas cylinders)." The senior official confirmed that 13 more patients, admitted in various Covid-19 wards at GMCH, died during the early hours of Friday. The number of patients who have died during the "dark hours (between 2 am and 6 am) at the hospital has touched 75 in the last four days. As per state government statistics, 26 patients had died at the GMCH during the wee hours of Tuesday, followed by 21 on Wednesday, 15 on Thursday and 13 on Friday (total 75). The high court is hearing a bunch of petitions on recent deaths of Covid-19 patients at the GMCH allegedly due to lack of medical oxygen. The Goa government had told the court on Thursday that during the process of “attaching the oxygen manifold there was some interruption, which results in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to patients." "We were explained that during this process there was some interruption, which resulted in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It was pointed out that it is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place," the bench had said. "We expect the state administration to find out ways and means to overcome these logistical issues so that precious life is not lost on account of any deficiencies in the matter of supply of oxygen to patients," the HC said. The Opposition has reacted strongly to these deaths, with the Goa Forward Party filing a police complaint against chief minister Pramod Sawant, and senior government officers on Friday, reports ndtv.com. The complaint alleged gross and reckless acts of negligence and deliberate omission of duty _ referring to the interruption of oxygen supply _  that led to the deaths of several Covid patients, the news website said quoting news agency ANI. Reacting to the deaths, Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai said the high court should "take over the affairs of the state as there is a collapse of governance". The state unit of the Congress is also set to file a criminal case. The party has slammed the "...clear-cut admission by Goa's BJP government before the High Court of Bombay at Goa that 41 deaths occurred due to shortage of oxygen...", and said the chief minister was "incompetent and defective". Chief minister Sawant, who visited GMCH on Tuesday, said the gap between the “availability of medical oxygen and its supply might have caused some issues.” He also stressed that there was no scarcity of oxygen supply in the state. However, also on Tuesday, Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane told reporters there was a shortfall in supply of medical oxygen as of the previous day, i.e., Monday. Mr Rane sought a probe by the High Court, which is already hearing petitions on the state government's management of the pandemic, and asked it to "prepare a white paper on oxygen supply". At 48.1 per cent, Goa has the highest positivity rate of Covid testing in the country as of Thursday evening. This means every second Coivd-19 test is returning a positive result. On Friday morning, the state reported 2,491 new cases and 62 deaths in 24 hours, to take its active caseload to nearly 33,000 and total number of deaths to nearly 2,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Delhi Police question Youth Congress leader over his Covid-19 assistance||Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president Srinivas BV on Friday said the Delhi Police's Crime Branch questioned him about the assistance being provided by him to people during the COVID-19 pandemic. "Police called me this morning and came to my office around 11.45 am. They questioned how you are doing it," he said. However, the Delhi Police said the questioning has been done following a Delhi High Court order. The high court has directed the city police to conduct an inquiry into politicians involved in the distribution of COVID-19 medicines and other items, and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of offence, a senior police officer said. In compliance with the directions of the high court, the inquiry is being conducted into several people, the officer said. On May 4, the Delhi High Court had asked the police to examine the instances of politicians allegedly procuring and distributing Remdesivir, used in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, in the national capital and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of offence. Senior Congress leader tweeted his support for Srinivas. “The one who saves is always bigger than the one who destroys,” he wrote in Hindi. The Youth Congress leader later told NDTV that he was not scared of anything as he had done nothing illegal. "We will not stop our work, we are not scared," he said. "We have not done anything wrong, if our smallest efforts can help save a life we will not stop or be scared of such PILs,” Srinivas added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Centre to provide 192 lakh vaccine doses to states, UTs from May 16 to 31||A total of 191.99 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines-- Covishield and Covaxin--will be supplied to states/UTs free of cost from May 16 to May 31, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The delivery schedule for the allocation will be shared in advance. States/UTs have been requested to direct the officials concerned to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise vaccine wastage, it said. The 191.99 lakh doses include 162.5 lakh Covishield doses and 29.49 lakh Covaxin doses. "The basic objective behind informing the states and UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Government of India for 15 days is to ensure that they prepare effective plans for judicious and optimum utilisation of these free vaccine doses which are meant for the age group of 45 and above, and for healthcare and frontline workers," the ministry said. In the previous fortnight, that is 1 May-May 15, 2021, a total quantity of more than 1.7 crore vaccine doses has been made available by the Centre to states/UTs, free of charge. In addition, more than 4.39 crore doses were made available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in the month of May, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country is nearly 18 crore (17.93 crore as per the 7 am provisional report on Friday). The Covid-19 vaccination drive has successfully completed 118 days wherein 17.93 crore doses have been administered to identified beneficiaries through collaborative efforts of all states and UTs. India is the fastest country globally to reach the 17 crore target in 114 days. The US took 115 days and China took 119 days to administer the same amount of doses. The 'Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy' is being implemented from May 1 2021 wherein 50 per cent of the available doses are earmarked for supply to states and UTs, as free of cost supply from Government of India channel, while the remaining 50 per cent is available for direct procurement from the vaccine manufacturers by states and UTs and private hospitals. The allocation of Centre's supplies to states/UTs is decided on the consumption pattern and beneficiary load for second doses during the upcoming fortnight, the ministry stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||No decision yet on pending class 12 board exams, says CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday that it has not taken any decision yet on class 12 board exams even as a section of students and parents have been demanding cancellation of exams in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation. "It is clarified that no such decision (cancellation of exams) has been taken regarding class 12 board examination, as being speculated. Any decision taken in this matter will be officially communicated to the public," a senior CBSE official said. The official was responding to a question about possibility of cancellation of class 12 board exams following demands by section of students and parents who have expressed concern over the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The board had on April 14 announced cancellation of class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in COVID-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The exams, which are usually conducted in February-March every year were scheduled to be held from May 4. "The class 12 exams have been postponed and a review of the situation will be done after June 1. Students will be given at least a 15-day notice before the exams are conducted," a board official had then said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the marking policy for class 10 board exams. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes were again suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme. With 3.43 lakh people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 2,40,46,809, while the death toll rose to 2,62,317 with 4,000 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Karnataka Congress to use area development funds worth Rs 100 cr to buy jabs||The Congress' Karnataka unit on Friday announced that the MPs, MLAs and MLCs will use their Local Area Development fund to the tune of Rs 100 crore for procuring vaccines. "The government has miserably failed to protect the people and vaccinate people. Hence, the MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the Congress, who are 95 in number have decided to donate at least Rs one crore each to procure vaccines," former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who is also the Congress legislative party leader, said at a press conference here. According to him, a total of Rs 100 crore will be given by Congress leaders of Karnataka for the purpose. The Congress stalwart said, "This is an unprecedented decision in the history of Karnataka." The state Congress chief D K Shivakumar, who accompanied Siddaramaiah, said the Congress parliamentarians and legislators are ready to stop development works in their areas. "We are ready to stop all the development works in our area. It is our bounden duty to save lives rather than carry out development works," he added. He said the party will write to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to utilise their funds for vaccine procurement. Later in a statement, the state Congress unit said it needed two small permissions, one from the central government and another from the state government to allow diversion of LAD funds for vaccine procurement. "My appeal to the BJP is to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat allow Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines," it quoted Shivakumar as saying. Currently, vaccine procurement rules in India allow central and state governments, hospitals and industries to directly procure vaccines, the party said. The Congress had a Rs 100 crore plan to kick-start the vaccination drive, of which Rs 10 crore was being contributed by the Karnataka Congress party fund, the party explained adding another Rs 90 crore can come from the Congress MLA/MLC funds. "I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Modi and Yediyurappa governments are failing to do so for months now," party quoted Shivakumar. The two leaders flayed Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda for his 'suicide by hanging' remark. Gowda on Thursday had sought to know whether people in the government should hang themselves for their failure to produce vaccines as directed by the government. Following the alarming rise in infections in the state, the demand for COVID vaccines has grown manifold. The government has said it will give vaccines to all free of cost once it arrives from the two manufacturers in the country -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Karnataka on Thursday reported 35,297 infections taking the overall tally to 20,88,488. There were 5,93,078 active cases as of Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Delhi govt to provide financial help to families which lost earning members to Covid||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will extend financial help to families which have lost their earning members to the coronavirus and also bear the cost of education and upbringing of children orphaned by the pandemic. He also said the number of fresh COVID-19 cases has come down to around 8,500 and the positivity rate has dipped to around 12 per cent. But the fight against the coronavirus has not ended and there is no room for leniency, the chief minister said in an online press conference. "I know many children who have lost both their parents. I want to tell them that I am still there. Do not consider yourself an orphan. The government will take care of their studies and upbringing," Kejriwal said. "I know elderly citizens who have lost their children. They depended on their earnings. I want to tell them that their son (Kejriwal) is alive. The government will help all such families who have lost their earning members," the chief minister said. Around 3,000 beds for coronavirus patients have become available in the last 10 days. However, ICU beds remain almost full, Kejriwal said. We have been working in this direction. Around 1,200 more ICU beds are being prepared. More oxygen beds are being added and oxygen cylinders being procured," he said. "We have to take the number of cases to zero. We cannot be at ease... have to strictly follow the lockdown," the chief minister said. The national capital had reported 10,489 new cases and 308 more fatalities on Thursday while the positivity rate stood at 14.24 per cent, according to the health department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Sputnik V to be priced at Rs 995 in India for now, expected to dip, says Dr Reddy’s||Drug firm Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Friday said it has launched COVID vaccine Sputnik V in the Indian market with the first dose being administered in Hyderabad, as part of a limited pilot.  The company said the imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at a maximum retail price of Rs 948, with 5 per cent GST per dose, amounting to Rs 995.4 per dose.  "The imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at an MRP of Rs 948 + 5 per cent GST per dose, with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins," Dr Reddy's Laboratories said in a statement.  The first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13, 2021, it added.  As part of a limited pilot, the soft launch of the vaccine has commenced and the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad, Dr Reddy's said.  "Further consignments of imported doses are expected over the upcoming months. Subsequently, supply of the Sputnik V vaccine will commence from Indian manufacturing partners," it added.  The company is working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfill regulatory requirements to ensure smooth and timely supply, Dr Reddy's said.  The Hyderabad-based firm said that it will work closely with stakeholders in the government and private sector in India to ensure the widest possible reach of the Sputnik V vaccine, as part of the national inoculation effort.  "With the rising cases in India, vaccination is our most effective tool in our battle against COVID-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe," Dr Reddy's Co-Chairman and MD G V Prasad said.  Till now, only two vaccines were being administered in India for COVID-19 -- Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India.  On Thursday, the Centre said that over two billion doses of vaccines will be made available in the country in five months between August and December, enough to vaccinate the entire population.  V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog at a Health Ministry briefing, said that the estimated 216 crore doses that are likely to be produced between August and December include 75 crore doses of Covishield and 55 core doses of Covaxin.  Further, Biological E is expected to produce 30 crore doses, Zydus Cadila 5 crore, Serum Institute of India 20 crore doses of Novavax, and Bharat Biotech 10 crore doses of its nasal vaccine, while Gennova will make available 6 crore doses and Sputnik V 15.6 crore doses, he had said.  Dr Reddy's had received permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to import the Sputnik vaccine into India for restricted use in emergency situations in April.  The company had partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and distribute the vaccine in India in September 2020.  Sputnik V uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination.  Its efficacy was determined to be 91.6 per cent as per a published article in the medical journal Lancet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Many Indians have lost their families to Covid, have felt their pain: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the coronavirus pandemic is rapidly spreading in rural areas, as he urged citizens to take precautions, wear masks and maintain social distance to check spread disease that has claimed at least 2.6 lakh lives.  The government, he said, is working on "war footing" to control the second wave of infections and is setting up new hospitals and oxygen generating plants while augmenting supplies of medicines and vaccines.  He asked states to crack down on black marketing of medicines and other essential items.  "I want to warn you about corona. This pandemic is spreading fast in rural villages. Every government is taking efforts to stop this. Awareness about this among rural people and cooperation of the panchayat institutes are equally important  "You have never disappointed the nation. We hope this time too, to protect yourself and family from COVID, all necessary precautions are taken. Wearing mask properly and regularly is important," Modi said.  The PM was speaking at the release of the 8th installment of financial benefit under the PM-KISAN scheme via video conference here.  Modi urged farmers to be aware of this invisible enemy and take precautions and timely medication. He asked people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and undergo testing if there are any symptoms.  The PM asked farmers not to take COVID symptoms like cold and fever lightly. "Get the test done, isolate yourself and start the medication on time."  After vaccination too, people should not forget to follow the COVID appropriate behaviour, he added.  Facing the world's worst health crisis, India reported more than 3 lakh daily infections for 22 consecutive days.  With 3,43,144 new infections over the last 24 hours, the tally of total cases crossed 2.4 crore. With 4,000 fresh deaths, the toll now stands at 2,62,317, since the pandemic first struck India more than a year ago.  A bulk of new infections is said to be coming from rural areas.  On its part, the Prime Minister said, the government is working on a "war footing" to control the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Modi expressed confidence that the country will win the battle against coronovirus, which he described as an "invisible enemy" and "multi-coloured" in nature.  "After 100 years, such a terrible pandemic is testing the world at every step. In front of us, we have an invisible enemy, which is in multiform. We have lost close ones to this enemy, the coronavirus," Modi said.  He emphathised with the pain of the countrymen who have lost dear ones recently in the COVID battle. "The pain that many people have gone through, I have felt the same pain. I am feeling the same."  "We are fighting with all our might... We are overcoming obstacles in resources in the fight against the second wave of corona," he said.  Every government department, armed forces and scientists are working day and night to fight against COVID-19, he said.  "India is not a country to lose courage. Neither India, nor Indians will lose courage. We will fight and we will win," Modi emphasised.  Modi stressed that vaccines are a great defence against coronavirus and said so far 18 crore doses have been given in the country.  Both the centre and states are making continuous efforts to get all vaccinated at a rapid pace, he said, and urged people to get vaccinated when their turn comes.  Highlighting steps taken to boost essential medicines and oxygen supplies across the country, the Prime Minister said that COVID hospitals and oxygen plants using the latest technology are being set up in different parts of the country.  "Special rails are engaged in supplying oxygen to different parts of the country. Oxygen tankers and drivers are working without pause. Be it doctors, nursing staff, sanitation workers, lab technicians, ambulance drivers, sample collectors -- all are working 24 hours to save each individual," he added.  Modi further said the government and pharma sector have boosted production of essential medicines and even importing from abroad.  On hoarding and black marketing of essential medicines, the Prime Minister said in the current tough time, some people are engaged in hoarding and black marketing of medicines and essential items.  "I urge states to take strict action against such people. This is against humanity," he said.  On the vaccination programme, Modi said this vaccine will give us a protective cover against coronavirus, reducing the risk of serious illness.  "The centre and all the state governments together, are making continuous efforts to enable more and more countrymen to get vaccinated at a rapid pace," he said.  Further, Modi said free vaccination is being done in government hospitals across the country. "So, whenever your turn comes, do get vaccinated."  Modi also said that the government has started free foodgrain distribution to 80 crore poor beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for two months -- May and June.  "I urge states to ensure there is no problem in distribution of free grains to the poor," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Covaxin dispatched to various states like Gujarat, Assam, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has dispatched Covid vaccine Covaxin to various states like Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha. The Hyderabad-based vaccine major, which has come under fire from the Delhi government over supply-related issues, said it has also dispatched Covaxin lots to Kerala and Uttarakhand. "Covaxin goes to Gandhinagar, Guwahati, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru & Bhuvneshwar. thank all our employees @ BHarat bio who worked thru the holy month of Ramzan..." Bharat Biotech Co-Founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. Earlier in a late night tweet on Thursday, she tweeted informing supply of the much in demand vaccine to Kerala and Uttarakhand. "Covaxin sent to Kerala & Uttarakhand. Thanq for the concern, many offered to help. Our work is highly stringent, realtime & technical,no work from home! All Our employees will be taken care of, won't deter us from our mission! Let's be thankful,helpful & hopeful always," she tweeted. Ella however did not provide details on the quantum of supplies. On May 12, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that Bharat Biotech has informed the state government that it cannot provide 'additional' Covaxin doses to the national capital. Responding to the criticism, Ella in a tweet said that It was quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about the company's intentions regarding supply of Covaxin. She said that the company had already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||India adds 3.43 lakh new Covid cases, 4000 casualties in a day||With 3,43,144 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 2,40,46,809, while the death toll rose to 2,62,317 with 4,000 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases have reduced to 37,04,893 comprising 15.41 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.50 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,00,79,599, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,13,24,100 samples have been tested up to May 13 with 18,75,515 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,000 new fatalities include 850 from Maharashtra, 344 from Karnataka, 308 from Delhi, 297 from Tamil Nadu, 277 from Uttar Pradesh, 186 from Punjab, 195 from Chhattisgarh, 163 from Haryana, 159 from Rajasthan, 129 from West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand, 109 from Gujarat and 108 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,62,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 78,857 from Maharashtra, 20,712 from Karnataka, 20,618 from Delhi, 16,768 from Tamil Nadu, 16,646 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,857 from West Bengal, 11,297 from Punjab and 11,289, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Congress govt in Chhattisgarh cancels tender for new Assembly building||Chhattisgarh’s Congress government on Thursday cancelled the tender for a new Assembly building and stopped the construction of ministers’ residences and MLA hostels, citing the need to fight the surging epidemic with all its resources. The move comes at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been roasted within and outside India for continuing with his Central Vista project in Delhi despite shortages of vaccines, oxygen, medicines and hospital beds hobbling the battle against Covid. The Congress leadership, accused by the BJP of hypocrisy in opposing the Central Vista project while carrying on with a similar programme in Chhattisgarh, reacted with glee to Thursday’s development and asked Modi to learn from the example set by the state government. Sources said chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had taken the decision before Union urban development minister Hardeep Singh Puri had laid the hypocrisy charge on the Congress. They said there had been no pressure on the chief minister from the party high command. “Our priority is our citizens. Foundation was laid for a new Assembly building, Raj Bhavan, chief minister’s residence, houses for ministers and senior officials, hostel for MLAs, new circuit house before corona struck,” Baghel tweeted. “Today all construction work has been stopped because of the pandemic.” Speaking to The Telegraph from Raipur, Baghel did not comment on the Central Vista project but obliquely implied that Chhattisgarh needed new government buildings much more than Delhi did. “Our situation cannot be compared with New Delhi as we are a nascent state. Our new capital, already constructed (in Nava Raipur, Atal Nagar) by the previous government at a cost of Rs 6,000 crore, is lying unused. We don’t have a chief minister’s house in Raipur; the collector’s bungalow is being used for the purpose,” he said. “The new capital can become functional only if we shift there and hence we thought of these projects worth Rs 400-500 crore. But the Covid outbreak put severe stress on our finances and the Centre is not helping. Even vaccines are to be bought by the states. Experts are predicting a third wave. “Under these circumstances, we were left with no option but to cancel the projects. I took the decision on austerity measures on April 26. I wrote to the departments concerned on that very day to cut expenditures.” Baghel said a government’s first priority must be the people, particularly in times of distress. “Our resources must be prioritised for Covid relief. We cannot concentrate our money and energy on buildings in this critical phase of national life,” he said. Several foreign newspapers had lambasted Modi for persisting with what they saw as a vanity project amid a fearful resurgence of Covid in India that they blamed on his mismanagement and complacency. The Congress too had targeted the Prime Minister, underlining how he had declared work on the Central Vista project an essential service to ensure that the lockdown did not disrupt construction. The project envisages a new Parliament and a host of other government buildings including a new home for the Prime Minister. When Puri alleged hypocrisy and BJP president J.P. Nadda mentioned the Chhattisgarh project in a letter to Sonia Gandhi, the Congress had tried to extricate itself by asking whether the Prime Minister was following the Chhattisgarh government. Baghel’s latest move has now put the party on a stronger footing. Jairam Ramesh was quick to tweet: “Dear Prime Minister, this is how a responsive and responsible government works in a democracy. Chhattisgarh government is prioritising lives of its people above everything else and redoubling its efforts to fight Covid-19. When will you learn and stop this Central Vista madness?” A joint letter written by Opposition leaders to the Prime Minister on Wednesday too had demanded that the Central Vista project be halted and the money earmarked for it used in procuring oxygen and vaccines. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Thursday: “Apart from vaccine, oxygen and medicine, even the Prime Minister has vanished. What is visible is Central Vista, GST on medicine and photographs of the Prime Minister here and there.” He added: “When a country faces a crisis, the government should ask itself if it’s taking from the people or giving to them; if it’s helpful or harmful. But the Government of India has abdicated its duty so people must come together for those in need. India stands united.” The Congress ran a social media campaign on the “missing” Prime Minister and home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||SC asks Centre, three state govts to provide free rations to migrants without ID proof||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to provide free rations to migrant workers stranded in the National Capital Region without insisting on identity proof, and arrange transport for those migrants who want to return home. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah said these governments must also open community kitchens and serve two free meals a day to the migrant workers and their families. The directives came on an application from a group of social activists that sought to avert a rerun of the misery that migrant workers stranded by the first wave of Covid had to endure last year. Harsh Mander, Anjali Bharadwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar have said in the petition, filed jointly through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl D’Souza, that an estimated 8 crore migrant workers are facing severe hardship because of the second wave of Covid. The apex court passed these directions: ⚫ The Centre and the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must provide dry rations to migrant workers stranded in the National Capital Region (NCR) with immediate effect. ⚫ The authorities must not insist on identity cards but provide the dry rations on the basis of self-declarations from the migrants. ⚫ The governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must ensure (within their districts that fall within the NCR) adequate transport for stranded migrants who want to return to their home states. ⚫ The district administrations may in coordination with police identify the stranded migrant labourers and facilitate their transport by road or train. ⚫ The Centre may instruct the railway ministry to take care of the migrants’ transport. ⚫ The governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must open community kitchens at well-advertised places (in the NCR) so that stranded migrant labourers and their families get two free meals a day. The bench asked the Centre, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to respond to the application and state how they would assuage the stranded migrant labourers’ misery. It also issued notices on the application to the Maharashtra, Gujarat and Bihar governments “to file their reply giving the details of the measures which they propose to take to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers regarding transportation... and providing dry ration(s) as well as cooked meals....” The apex court noted that several states had, despite directions issued last year, not yet filed replies stating the steps they had taken to mitigate the hardships of migrant workers stranded within their borders. It therefore issued fresh directions giving, “as a last chance”, 10 days to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Odisha to file responses on the steps taken or about to be taken, along with the timetable. The next hearing is on May 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Shortage of jabs may continue for 3 more months ||India’s Covid-19 vaccine shortages may persist for three more months until production capacity is ramped up and new vaccines arrive, the Union health ministry signalled on Thursday with a top health official urging patience. The health ministry has for the first time released vaccine availability data up to July 2021, showing that India has an assured quantum of 516 million doses, enough to vaccinate only about 250 million of the country’s estimated 900 million adults. Increased production of Covishield and Covaxin, the introduction of Russia’s Sputnik V, and five new vaccines will give India access to over two billion doses between August and December this year, said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine policy. “Be proud to say that two billion doses in a matter of five months will be made in India for the people of India,” Paul said. “Vaccines will be available for all as we move forward…. If I extend this estimate to the early first quarter (of 2022), this number is three billion.” “After this data, there should be no doubt. All will get vaccines,” added Paul, who is a senior paediatrician and a member of Niti Aayog, India's apex government think tank. The assurances come at a time states and private hospitals across the country have reported shortages of vaccines as they seek to inoculate adults aged between 18 and 45, eligible under the revised vaccination policy, while the Centre continues to vaccinate all adults 45 years or older. Paul, providing insights into the health ministry’s expectations, said India would have 750 million doses of Covishield, 550 million doses of Covaxin, 156 million doses of Sputnik V and over 700 million doses of new vaccines from Bio-E, Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute, Zydus Cadila and Gennova. India’s drug regulatory authority has already approved Sputnik V, which is expected to enter the vaccination campaign within days. But the five other vaccines are in various stages of clinical development and would need to prove their efficacy before they are approved. Senior researchers familiar with vaccine science said the prospect of over two billion doses within five months was optimistic and would hinge on all five vaccines being approved and produced. “It would depend on clinical trial results — this is achievable in a best-case scenario,” said a senior virologist. Another vaccine researcher said the expectation of five new vaccines within three months was “very optimistic”. Multiple health experts have criticised what they view as a failure of India’s vaccine policy-makers to anticipate and prepare for the doses required through advance investments and purchase pacts with vaccine makers between July and December 2020 as many countries have done. India had till Thursday administered 180 million doses, but only about 10 per cent of the population has been covered by at least one dose, compared with 46 per cent of the US population and 15 per cent of Brazil’s population. Paul said an asymmetry between supply and demand had been seen across the world at the start of vaccination campaigns. “We are moving through a phase where there is finite supply…. It takes time. It takes time to move out of this phase,” he said. “In this phase, whatever supply is available, every dose should reach everyone with patience,” Paul said. “To cover the entire nation, please remember, it will take a little while and we should accept this as a reality, with humility, giving credit to scientists, industry, health workers, doctors and district teams for the efforts they have taken.” Health experts have criticised what some view as an abrupt policy change by the Centre to allow the states and private hospitals the flexibility to inoculate all adults 18 years or older from May 1 without making provisions for the extra doses needed. But Paul defended the policy change, saying the states and the people of India had sought it. He said the Centre’s earlier policy to inoculate adults 45 years or older was based on the need to protect the most vulnerable people first. “But states wanted flexibility to take decisions. In a federal system, the Centre agreed. People wanted it, the states wanted it. We must now work towards the seamless delivery of vaccination.” Foreign jabs The Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson are unlikely to be available in India until at least the third quarter of 2021, Paul said, providing insights into the outcomes of talks the Indian government has had with the three companies. “We’ve been in touch with Pfizer, Moderna and J&J from the start,” Paul said. “We’ve asked them, ‘Please would you like to send doses to India, please would you like to manufacture in India? We will find partners, we’ll assist you’.” Paul said the companies had indicated they would consider India in the third quarter of the year. “We’re talking with all three companies now. This is being pursued at the highest diplomatic level. We’re inviting (them) to make (the vaccines) here, and to transfer the technology to India.” Health experts tracking global vaccine supplies have said the companies are unlikely to send doses to India for weeks because of the advance purchase orders they have received from other countries such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Britain, the US and the European Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Recipients of Covishield should take second doses after 12 weeks: Union health ministry ||Recipients of the Covishield vaccine should take their second doses only after a gap of 12 weeks, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, accepting recommendations from advisory panels and citing new real-world evidence from the UK. The ministry said it had accepted the recommendations of two advisory panels on vaccines to expand the gap between the first and second Covishield doses to 12-16 weeks from the current gap of 6-8 weeks, introduced on March 22. The recommended gap between the two doses of Covaxin, the other Covid-19 vaccine currently used in the nationwide vaccination campaign, remains four weeks. Medical researchers, including some members of the advisory panels, said the decision on Covishield was backed by scientific evidence. But the timing of the announcement exposes arbitrary decision-making amid what some health experts have described as India’s self-inflicted vaccine shortage. The health ministry said a Covid-19 working group under the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) had recommended the extension of the gap and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration had accepted it. “There is adequate and growing evidence that delaying the second dose of Covishield actually helps,” a member of one of the advisory bodies told The Telegraph. “There is some evidence that a delayed second dose enhances the immune response.” While the initially recommended gap between the two Covishield jabs was 4 to 6 weeks, researchers said, evidence of the benefits of delaying the second dose had emerged by February this year. The World Health Organisation had in February said that “longer dose intervals within the 8 to 12 weeks range are associated with greater vaccine efficacy”. Health officials had in March not explained why the government had revised the gap to 6 to 8 weeks instead of 8 to 12 weeks, as recommended in the WHO guidelines. Some doctors in India, including Gagandeep Kang, a vaccine specialist and senior clinical microbiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, had in March indicated they would take the second dose in the 8-to-12-week period in line with the WHO recommendation. Health experts not associated with the advisory bodies but tracking the vaccination policy said India should ideally have adopted the 8 to 12 weeks interval back in March itself. “This could have prevented a huge amount of confusion among the public,” said an expert who requested anonymity. The Centre’s vaccine advisers are also mulling a decision to ask people who have recovered from Covid-19 to defer their first vaccine doses by up to six months. Researchers say there is strong evidence that those who have recovered from Covid-19 are protected for several months. They believe the expanded gap between the Covishield doses and the recommendation for recovered patients to defer vaccination would help more people get their first doses faster. A study by Britain’s Public Health England, published in April this year, had found that a previous Covid-19 infection was associated with an 84 per cent lower risk of infection, with the protective effect observed for up to seven months after the primary infection. “We’ve known this for a long time — those who’ve recovered from natural infections are protected for some time,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former professor of community medicine at the CMC, Vellore. “We should implement this now without any delay.” Some health officials had last year indicated that one option they were examining was to use the previous history of Covid-19 infections as a criterion for delaying vaccination, but the plan was not implemented when the vaccination campaign started earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Student held from Pathankot for duping 47 people on pretext of providing ICU set-ups||An engineering student has been arrested from Pathankot in Punjab for allegedly duping 47 people on the pretext of providing ICU set-ups and oxygen cylinders at home for their Covid-positive friends and relatives. The accused, Aryan Singh alias Dhananjay, 21, is a resident of Noida in Uttar Pradesh and is pursuing BTech from a renowned institute there. With the money collected from people after falsely promising them the equipment, Aryan allegedly stayed at luxury hotels in Gurgaon, Noida and Jammu, the police said. Fluent in English and a good communicator, he used Instagram to target his victims, taking advantage of the widespread use of social media to help Covid patients with hospital beds, oxygen and medicines. The police said Aryan came up with the plan of cheating people after receiving overwhelming response to a request for help that he had posted on the photo and video-sharing app. He allegedly used the name of a well-known foundation to gain the trust of the victims and requested them to visit the website for verification, the police said. Aryan’s victims were from Delhi, Noida, Faridabad, Mumbai and other cities. The fraud came to light after a relative of a coronavirus patient complained on a Covid helpline. The complainant alleged that he had received a message on a WhatsApp group for setting up an ICU facility at home and contacted the given mobile number whereupon the receiver had introduced himself as Dhananjay and asked him to deposit Rs 3,950 as advance rent. After he transferred the money to an e-wallet on April 30, the accused stopped responding to the complainant’s phone calls, he alleged. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said a case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC had been registered at Wazirabad police station. The cyber crime cell team conducted a technical analysis of the mobile number and online transactions. “As per our technical investigation, the location of the accused was traced to Jammu and his previous transactions revealed that he used to stay in luxurious hotels. His location was traced next to Radisson Hotel in Jammu. When our team reached Jammu, it was found that the suspect had checked out,” Alphonse said. Aryan was caught in Pathankot after a long chase, brought to Delhi and subsequently arrested, the officer added. The police have seized mobile phones allegedly used by Aryan to contact the victims and to operate his online account. “During interrogation, it was revealed that he had posted a story on Instagram for enquiry about an oxygen cylinder and seeing the response of a large number of people, he came up with the idea of duping people in the name of setting up ICUs at home,” Alphonse said. “He further disclosed that his number got shared on WhatsApp through several groups and he had been contacted by relatives of corona patients who were looking for ICU beds in hospitals. The accused Aryan, with his good communication skills, explained the entire process to the victims and provided an online wallet account number and UPI ID for them to transfer money,” Alphonse said. Initially, Aryan had used his own e-wallet but switched to a different account later. He believed that the victims would not approach the police over losing a small amount of money, Alphonse said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||N.V. Ramana launches Android media app for legal journalists ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday launched an Android media app for legal journalists so they can cover Supreme Court proceedings live from their homes or offices and not have to risk infection by travelling to the court amid the Covid surge. While the higher courts and most lower courts have been conducting proceedings via videoconferencing, Supreme Court reporters have till now had to cover the hearings from three media lounges on the apex court premises. The app, developed in-house, will now give them exclusive links to the virtual proceedings on their mobile phones, through the official Supreme Court website. At least half-a-dozen Supreme Court judges — including Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and D.Y. Chandrachud, members of the court’s e-committee — have tested Covid-positive. The panel’s other member, Justice Hemant Gupta, was present at the launch. Some 2,768 judicial officers and 106 high court judges too have tested positive — with data from two high courts still to arrive — and 34 judicial officers and 3 high court judges have died of the infection, Justice Ramana said. Scores of legal correspondents too have been infected. “With great pain and agony, I must state certain facts. The first employee of the Supreme Court registry was reported Covid-positive on 27th April, 2020. Till date, approximately 800 registry staff have tested positive,” Justice Ramana said. “Six of our registrars and 10 additional registrars have tested positive at different times. Unfortunately, we have lost three of our officials to Covid.” He went on: “Despite this demoralising and fear-inducing environment, everyone is rendering service to their best capacity to ensure that justice continues to be rendered.” Justice Ramana said that as a former journalist, he could understand the difficult circumstances under which the media had to work, and so the decision to launch the exclusive media application had been taken. He said many journalists had requested an alternative to the existing system. On a request from the Chief Justice, the e-committee and technical team had toiled to create the media app, despite secretary-general Sanjeev S. Kalgaonkar, registrar (computer) Rajiv Kalra, senior technical director Manoj Tuli, technical director Pardeep Nanda and programmer Sanjeev being down with Covid. “Still, the team worked from home and came out with this feature within seven days. Their commitment to their duty deserves special appreciation,” Justice Ramana said. He said media coverage of court rulings and proceedings, particularly those of the Supreme Court, influenced people’s lives. He recalled how in the late 1970s, when he was a journalist for the Eenadu newspaper in undivided Andhra Pradesh, he travelled by public buses to cover assignments and consciously avoided any offers of free travel by those he was covering. Justice Ramana announced the Supreme Court was introducing a new feature, “Indicative Notes”, on its official website and mobile app that would provide concise and lucid summaries of landmark judgments, past and present. He thanked his predecessor, Justice S.A. Bobde, for coming up with the idea for this feature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Half-a-dozen corpses found floating in Ramganga near Bareilly district ||Half-a-dozen corpses were seen floating down the Ramganga on Thursday in Bareilly district of western Uttar Pradesh after similar discoveries in Ghazipur and Ballia in the state’s east, suggesting the practice of dumping bodies in rivers had become widespread. “Hundreds of people from adjoining areas gathered on the riverbank in Kadarganj village to see for themselves. The news spread by word of mouth,” Kadarganj gram panchayat chief Rakesh Kumar told reporters. “Two of the bodies were tied to logs of firewood,” he added, implying they had been thrown into the river by families unable to find space at the choked cremation grounds or pay the huge bribes sought by crematory staff. In the afternoon, four bodies were found floating down the Ganga at Badaura village in Chandauli district, which borders Varanasi, in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Three were half-burnt and were wrapped in plastic sheets. One was dressed in a shirt and trousers. The administration buried them on the riverbank. Bodies had earlier been found in the Ganga in the eastern Uttar Pradesh districts of Ballia and Ghazipur on Tuesday, and bordering Buxar in Bihar on Monday. Everywhere, local officials suggested the bodies had been dumped further upstream although local people told the media the practice was catching on in their villages. A Kadarganj resident told reporters on Thursday: “I saw an ambulance arrive down Bukhara Road on May 10. Some people carried a body out and threw it into the river in the darkness of the night.” The 600km Ramganga originates in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand and flows into the Ganga in Kannauj, Uttar Pradesh, after passing through districts such as Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Badaun, Shahjahanpur and Hardoi. While Allahabad High Court has rapped the Uttar Pradesh government for concealing the death toll from a resurgent Covid, reports from across the state describe long queues at the crematories and a firewood shortage that may be prompting families to throw their dead into rivers. Cremation ground staff are said to be demanding anything between Rs 5,000 and Rs 15,000 to cremate a body. Besides, the fear of the infection often makes it difficult for families of dead Covid patients to find pallbearers. “Villagers in Padhera, Kadarganj, Kani Nawada, Pankha Khera and Nagaria Kalan, situated along the Ramganga, have been discovering a floating body or two every day. Suddenly today (Thursday), many bodies were spotted,” former Kadarganj panchayat chief Gopal Pathak said. “The villagers are terrorised because every family has people with high fever. It’s not possible to make out who is Covid-positive. Health department teams never visit the area.” Pathak added: “We don’t have a tradition of immersing the dead in the river. But we believe that most of those dying now are Covid-positive, and the families are dumping the bodies in the river for fear of the virus.” Environmentalists have warned that the practice can compound problems by polluting rivers. “We have directed police stations across the state to prevent the dumping of bodies in rivers,” a senior police officer in Lucknow said. “The police in every district are trying to help families get Covid patients treated or cremated. The people must call the police if they face problems.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Uncertainty blights admission process at central universities||Uncertainty has blighted the admission process at central universities with the government dithering on a proposed common entrance test and school boards delaying the announcement of results amid the pandemic. With the future of students hanging in the balance at a time the pandemic has cast a pall of uncertainty over all aspects of life, academics wondered if too much centralisation was eating into the freedom enjoyed by educational institutions. The education ministry is yet to take a decision on whether to launch the proposed Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for the selection of students to undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the 40-odd central universities from the 2021-22 academic session. The exam, according to the plan, is to be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Now, only 10 central universities that were started in 2009 conduct a common admission test to take in students for the master’s courses. Central institutions such as Delhi University and Allahabad University traditionally admit students to undergraduate courses on the basis of Class XII marks. This year, all these universities, including the 10 that had earlier opted for a common entrance exam, are waiting for the Centre to take a decision on the CUCET and are yet to begin the admission process. A committee of vice-chancellors appointed by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, had recommended separate CUCETs for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, to be conducted by the NTA. According to the recommendations that were forwarded to the education ministry in the first week of April, the central universities would admit students to undergraduate courses by giving equal weightage to the common entrance test score and the board exam marks. “There is too much centralisation these days. For the admission process, the university has to wait for the government’s decision. For examinations, the ministry gives guidelines. This centralisation is diluting the autonomy of academic institutions and disrupting their normal activities,” said Rajesh Jha, an assistant professor of Delhi University. He said the central government and the UGC should bring out a broad plan on how to support institutions during the Covid crisis. An education ministry official said no decision could be taken on the common entrance test because key officials were either down with Covid or busy with other official assignments. A senior ministry official had been sent to Bengal as part of a central team to assess post-election-result violence. “The government should take a decision at the earliest. Otherwise, we are unable to start our own entrance process. The entire process is getting delayed,” said the vice-chancellor of a new central university. Last year, the 10 universities had started the application process in April for the common entrance test, which was held in May. Admissions at other higher educational institutions also take place around this time. The VC said most school boards were yet to announce their results, which had aggravated the uncertainty over the admission process. All school boards have postponed their Class XII exams in view of the second wave of Covid. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) conducts its own entrance tests for undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes. The application process starts in March. This time, the procedure is yet to start. N. Sai Balaji, a student of JNU, said it was high time the central universities came out with their admission schedules. “The institutions should take a decision and clarify their admission process. The delay is creating confusion among aspirants,” Balaji said. Institutions such as IITs and deemed universities have prepared their academic road map. IIT Bombay has already conducted semester exams online and is ready to begin classes for existing students from July. “Most students have taken the exams. Those who did not will get an additional chance. Our classes for existing students will start from July. Next month we will decide whether classes will be held online or offline,” said a senior official at IIT Bombay. The fresh batch of students will be admitted on the basis of the JEE Advanced exam whose schedule is yet to be decided. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), a deemed university, is set to conduct its entrance exam soon and online classes from July. Prof. P.K. Shajahan, the dean of academic affairs at the TISS, said the institute had developed an online learning platform — TISSOL — in June 2020 and conducted its classes online for the 2020-21 academic year. The assessment process was also conducted online with more application-oriented assignments and exams from home. “The students who will be unable to complete their academic requirements within this time frame will be given an additional one month for completion. In case any other student is left out after this additional month, the institute will consider their issue on a case-to-case basis. No student will be penalised because of the prevailing crisis they are in,” Shajahan said. He said the TISS was prepared to start classes for the existing batch of students most likely by the fourth week of July and those for the fresh batches by mid-August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine expert moves Supreme Court for transparency in clinical trials ||A doctor who had earlier been a member of a government panel on vaccine administration has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to ensure transparency in clinical trials and recording of post-inoculation data including adverse events. Dr Jacob Puliyel, a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation whose proposal on Thursday to delay the second dose of the Covishield vaccine was accepted by the government, has pleaded that thrusting vaccines on the general public without releasing data was a violation of the citizens’ fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Besides the Union government, the petitioner has made the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research, Bharat Biotech (the maker of Covaxin) and the Serum Institute of India (producing Covishield) respondents. While urging the court to declare the present vaccination mandates as unconstitutional, the petition sought a direction to the Centre to make public data on the |clinical trials of the vaccines that are being administered to the people of the country under the emergency use authorisation granted by the Drugs Controller General of India. “The petitioner avers and wishes to record the evidence in medical literature that vaccines that have not been adequately tested for safety or efficacy are now licensed under emergency use authorisation without the data being disclosed to the public,” Dr Puliyel’s petition said. “This is a clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosure and the guidelines with respect to disclosure of clinical trial data, as laid down by the World Health Organisation and followed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “In India, the manner in which the vaccines have been licensed vitiates and even precludes the possibility that the vaccines can be evaluated objectively in the future,” the petition, jointly filed through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl D’souza, said. According to Dr Puliyel, the importance of disclosure of segregated data of vaccine clinical trials — with age-wise enumeration of numbers — cannot be undermined and must be disclosed through peer-reviewed scientific journals. Such information is essential to ascertain whether a certain section of the population is more susceptible to adverse effects and to determine adverse effects in various age groups and on differing populations, the petition said. “So far, the respondents have practised complete secrecy in the matter and have not disclosed any data from trials for the vaccines that have been developed in India — Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and Covishield manufactured at the Serum Institute of India,” the petition said. It added: “It is important for the respondent authorities to carefully monitor vaccine recipients and publicly record all adverse events. In other countries, this type of observation has helped identify the occurrence of blood clots and strokes in vaccine recipients. “Many countries stopped administering the vaccine till they evaluated this occurrence and countries like Denmark have completely banned the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine (branded as Covishield in India). India, with its huge population and numbers vaccinated, should have reported these adverse events first. But due to poor follow-up, poor adverse events.” “It is submitted that coercing citizens directly or indirectly to get vaccinated is unconstitutional and violates the right to life of citizens. While the government has clearly stated in numerous RTIs that Covid vaccines are voluntary, there are many instances from across the country where now various authorities are mandating the vaccines (on the ground that) Covid is a public health emergency and that such an emergency may require emergency use authorisations of vaccines which may not yet have been adequately tested,” the petition said. It went on: “However, that should not mean that all information and data of relevance as to the efficacy or side effects of the vaccines which have been given such approval should not be collected systematically and made publicly available, especially when the vaccines are being used in a universal immunisation programme. “Though emergency authorisation of the vaccines may be advisable in the present situation, it does not, however, mean that these vaccines can be forced upon people, especially without all relevant data being available for independent public and scientific scrutiny. The present petition therefore should not be understood to be a petition challenging the present Covid vaccination programme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 crisis diminished Narendra Modi: UK Financial Times||The “big read” in the 'Financial Times' of the UK on Thursday was a 2,300-word news report and analysis, headlined, “How India’s Covid-19 crisis diminished Narendra Modi: Many Indians feel abandoned by a leader who ignored signs of a second wave and appears indifferent to their plight.” It appears that the Indian government has given up countering the rising crescendo of foreign news media criticism aimed at Modi because of his alleged mishandling of the Covid crisis, of which the full front attack in the FT is the latest example. As for the future, the FT says: “Regional parties have been buoyed by the victory of West Bengal’s incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, who withstood the full force of the BJP’s electoral machinery in just concluded state elections.” The FT extrapolates from the particular to the general, beginning with the tribulations of Anarya, a 30-year-old art educator who lost her 67-year-old father because she and her brother could not get him timely treatment in Delhi. “Today, the young woman is overwhelmed with grief — as well as rage at her family’s ordeal,” the FT reports. Anarya is quoted as saying: “It’s not our job to find medicine, to find oxygen, to find an ICU bed. Going from hospital to hospital — that is not what should happen. Our job is to pay taxes. It is the government’s job to provide basic facilities. They are failing the people. It’s criminal negligence.” She is not alone, the paper suggests: “It is a fury pervasive in urban India, as citizens struggle to obtain medical care for ailing loved ones — and scarce vaccinations — amid an enormous wave of deadly Covid-19 infections. “This anger has exposed the first cracks in the armour of a charismatic strongman who had until weeks ago seemed all but politically invincible: Narendra Modi, India’s most powerful and popular Prime Minister in decades. “Modi… now appears a diminished figure, presiding over what many see as the biggest disaster to befall the country since its independence from British colonial rule in 1947. His pledges to increase job-generating economic growth, deliver administrative efficiency… and boost India’s stature on the global stage remain unfulfilled. “Instead, many Indians struggling to keep Covid-stricken relatives alive in the face of daunting obstacles feel abandoned by a leader who appears strangely indifferent — if not paralysed — amid their suffering.” The FT seeks to analyse the possible long-term political consequences for Modi: “Tough questions are being asked of Modi’s pandemic management, including public health messages that suggested the virus threat had passed; the failure to heed repeated expert warnings of an imminent second wave; and a botched procurement strategy that has led to an acute shortage of vaccines.” But the FT acknowledges that Modi is still popular. “Modi’s popularity is still at elevated levels that would make most other global leaders green with envy. According to Morning Consult, the data analytics agency, more than 65 per cent of Indians still approve of Modi’s performance, while just 29 per cent disapprove. But Modi’s standing has eroded significantly since late March, when his approval rating was 74 per cent and disapproval rating just 20 per cent.” It is reckoned that the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections will be a test of Modi’s post-pandemic popularity: “India’s next general election isn’t until 2024. But India’s most populous state, Uttar Pradesh… will elect a new state government next year. The poll will provide an early test of voters’ opinions on the BJP’s management of the crisis. “Most analysts still believe Modi will be able to overcome his current woes, given his consummate political skills, the weakness of India’s opposition parties and his proven ability to maintain his standing in voters’ eyes despite inflicting disruptive shocks since he became leader.” The FT report ends with the prediction that the more things change, the more they might remain the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Dharamendra Pradhan urges Naveen Patnaik to involve Opposition in Covid fight||The day Opposition parties urged the Narendra Modi government to accept their advice to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country and save it from an “apocalyptic human tragedy”, BJP’s Odisha face and Union minister Dharamendra Pradhan urged chief minister Naveen Patnaik to involve Opposition parties in the fight against the pandemic. He urged Naveen to constitute a Covid crisis management committee to deal with the situation arising out of it. His call, however, has not gone well with the ruling BJD and the Opposition Congress and the Left parties. The BJP is the principal Opposition party in the state. “This is what you call following double standards. When thousands of people are dying everyday in the country and bodies are seen floating in the Ganga, the Modi government is refusing to take the advice of the Opposition. And here you are asking us to involve the Opposition in the fight against Covid. “He should first give this suggestion to Modi to take everyone with him in this battle. What is the necessity to give nod to Kumbh mela? Odisha is doing well in Covid management,” said senior BJD leader and former minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak. Leaders of other parties also reacted sharply to Pradhan’s call. “Why can’t Dharmendra take up this vital issue of involving the Opposition with Mr. Modi? It’s a national crisis. The Prime Minister should act first. The role of Government of India is missing” asked former Union minister Srikant Jena. Senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said: “Its known that the BJP leaders never do what they say. I think they always maintain a double standard in each issue. They are capable of making statements at any time that suits their political agenda. Let the central minister’s proposal be implemented at the national level and the BJP ruled states.” Senior leader Janardan Pati told The Telegraph, “Why don’t the BJP MPs rise to the occasion and advise the Modi government on the issue? They try to hoodwink the people. You are not involving the Opposition at the Centre but demanding Naveen should involve the Opposition. It’s a kind of double standard. They are opportunists.” Union minister Pradhan on Wednesday had urged Odisha chief minister to take everyone with him in the state’s fight against Covid-19 and constitute a Covid crisis management committee, including members of all the political parties. “Next 15 days will be crucial, I urged the chief minister to engage all intellectuals, members of political parties and social activists in the fight against Covid-19,” Pradhan tweeted. The Union minister said all should be involved in strengthening relief measures and containment efforts at the grassroots level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||India asks China to help stop sharp increase in costs of essential medical supplies||India has asked China to help stop the sharp increase in prices of essential medical supplies being procured from Chinese manufacturers by private Indian traders to deal with the Covid-19 surge in the country and restore the normal frequency of cargo flight services to maintain a steady supply chain. Soaring prices of medical supplies such as oxygen concentrators and disruption of cargo flights to India are slowing arrivals of medical goods, India’s consul-general to Hong Kong Priyanka Chauhan said. “What I would like to say is that our expectation at this point is that the supply chain should remain open and product prices should remain stable,” Chauhan said in an interview with the South China Morning Post on Wednesday. “Even if there is a little bit of supply-demand pressure, there has to be some stability and predictability to product prices,” she told the Hong Kong-based newspaper. “And there has to be a sense of governmental level support and efforts. I don’t have the information as to how much influence the Chinese government can have in this matter but if they can, then it would be welcome,” she said. Her comments came in the backdrop of efforts by private Indian traders to source much-needed medical supplies to meet the shortages in hospitals. The cargo flight disruptions were amplified by the decision by Sichuan Airlines to suspend all its 11 cargo flights for 15 days from April 26, citing the Covid situation in India. Though the state-run airline said it is reviewing its plans to restore the flights, it is yet to do so. Freight Forwarders in Shanghai told PTI here that Sichuan Airlines has announced plans to restore three of its freight flights from Chongqing and Xian to Delhi from May 17. Currently, the air shipments are being carried by other airlines, including India’s Spice Jet and Blue Dart, which runs empty flights from India to bring the medical supplies from China. On whether there should be more government-level cooperation between China and India during the pandemic for more of a guarantee on price stability and supply chain, Chauhan told the Post that India would be open to discussing the issue to see if a better mechanism could be agreed. About the travel bans due to the Covid-19 situation in India, Chauhan said she appreciated the need for travel bans based on public health concerns, but added that India was asking China to facilitate cargo flights so that supplies could be delivered. She said a phone conversation between Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and his Indian counterpart S. Jaishankar in April had helped with the clearance and approval of cargo flights, but they had not returned to the same frequency as before the second wave. She suggested that higher-level assurances to officials for flight clearance could help. “Unreasonable control should be avoided, and transport linkages should be maintained,” she said. About the international response to rush aid to India, Chauhan said more than 50 countries have supported India by sending supplies. India is currently grappling with the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak. India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Medical college in Aurangabad proposes certificate course in Covid-19 prevention||The government medical college in Aurangabad, one of the biggest health facilities in the Marathwada region, has proposed a certificate course in Covid-19 prevention and management for state-run medical colleges, an official said on Thursday. The course will help treatment facilities get a continuous flow of doctors and required manpower for hospital services, Dr Kananbala Yelikar, the dean of Aurangabad Government Medical College wrote in the proposal. A proposal was submitted to the secretary of medical education, director of medical education and research and registrar of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences on Thursday, the official said. The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the condition of hospitals and their management, and it has also revealed the fact that despite providing monetary incentives, there was a shortage of healthcare personnel, the proposal stated. A six-month certificate course is proposed for MBBS, homeopathy, Ayurveda and dentistry graduates, as they are currently involved in treating Covid-19 patients, the official said. According to the proposal, the syllabus would comprise basic laboratory techniques of virology, safety measures, quality control, pathogenesis of infectious diseases, diagnosis of Covid-19 and management, ventilator support awareness and vaccination. “We are currently working with deficit manpower. The course will help us get skilled manpower, which will prove useful during a possible third wave of the pandemic,” Dr Yelikar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid surge: In India, Nepal sees ‘a preview’||Most of Nepal is under lockdown, its hospitals overwhelmed. As India battles a horrific surge of the coronavirus, the effects have spilled over to its neighbours. Most nearby countries have sealed their borders. Several that had been counting on Indian-made vaccines are pleading with China and Russia instead. The question is whether that will be enough in a region that shares many of the risk factors that made India so vulnerable: densely populated cities, heavy air pollution, fragile healthcare systems and large populations of poor workers who must weigh the threat of the virus against the possibility of starvation. Though the countries’ outbreaks can’t all be linked to India, officials across the region have expressed growing dread over how easily their fates could follow that of their neighbour. “I feel like it’s a world war situation,” said  Rajan Pandey, a physician in Banke, a Nepalese district along the India border, who said he was turning away 30 patients asking for hospital beds every day. “If lockdown was enforced two weeks ago, borders were closed and migrant workers returning from India were quarantined better, this situation could have been avoided,” he said. As is, he added, “we are still waiting for the worst.” Nepal shows most clearly how the crisis has rippled. After an initial wave last year, cases in the Himalayan nation of 30 million had plunged by January. Residents gathered for Nepalese New Year celebrations last month, and hundreds of thousands of migrant workers returned to India, where they go each year in search of jobs. But as the new surge began raging across India, many of those workers returned across the porous, 1,770km border. With them came the virus. In the border district of Kanchanpur, more than 1,500 Nepalis come back from India each day. About one-fifth of them test positive, said Ram Kumar Mahato, the chief district officer there. In Banke, as many as 9,000 workers returned last week, said Rajesh Saru Magar, a Unicef worker. Only about 20 per cent are being tested because of a lack of capacity, Magar said. Of those, 30 per cent were positive. Yet even now, Nepal’s government has closed only 22 of its 35 border checkpoints, a decision that officials have said is necessary to ensure that citizens can return. Until late April, Nepal also allowed passengers from India to transit through the capital, Kathmandu, a possible loophole for those seeking to get around other countries’ bans on travel from India. Now, Nepal is recording as many as 9,000 infections per day, with more than 40 per cent of tests coming back positive. More than 4,200 people had died by Wednesday evening. Experts say the cases are likely being undercounted. Still, imported cases are not the only reason for the crisis engulfing Nepal. As in India, the government did not expand health facilities when coronavirus cases appeared to be under control last year, and it was slow to enforce social distancing restrictions when it became clear that they were not. Critics have pointed to huge, maskless rallies in India hosted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi even as infections rose. Likewise, both the ruling and Opposition parties in Nepal held large political gatherings after the Prime Minister dissolved Parliament in December. “Because of this, the virus reached every corner of the country,” said Krishna Prasad Paudel, the director of the epidemiology and disease control division at Nepal’s health ministry. Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli told CNN on Saturday that Nepal’s situation was “under control” but acknowledged that “political instability” had led to “some mistakes”. On Monday night, Oli lost a vote of no confidence in Parliament. Aid workers have warned that the parallels between Nepal and India may continue, as hospitals turn all but the most critically ill patients away. With medical oxygen supplies running short, as they did in India, Nepal’s government has imposed quotas for each hospital, which doctors say are far from adequate. Reports of patients dying from insufficient oxygen have spread. “What is happening in India right now is a horrifying preview of Nepal’s future if we cannot contain this latest Covid surge,” Dr Netra Prasad Timsina, the chairwoman of the Nepal Red Cross, said in a statement last week. Vaccines are unlikely to help immediately. Nepal paid for 2 million doses from India’s Serum Institute. But as India’s crisis has escalated, its government has essentially halted exports, leaving Nepal 1 million doses short. In Nepal, as staggering as the new numbers are, experts have said the surge will likely take more than a month to peak. Nepal’s healthcare system is even more strained than India’s; when the government released its coronavirus response plan last May, it estimated that local facilities would be insufficient if there were more than 5,000 active cases at once. Now there are more than 100,000. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Fourteen govt doctors in UP quit, cite misbehaviour by administrative officials||Fourteen government doctors at designated Covid hospitals in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district have resigned alleging misbehaviour and harassment by administrative officials. The doctors, who had been in charge of community health centres and primary health centres that have been turned into Covid hospitals, alleged in a letter to additional chief medical officer Tanmay Kakkar that they were unable to work in such adverse and hostile conditions. Sources said senior doctors did not turn up at 14 of the 16 community health centres in Unnao on Thursday. Among them were the doctors who have quit or those who have expressed solidarity with them. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, who had been in charge of the Ganjmuradabad primary health centre, said: “The district administration deploys us for anything and everything, including conducting RT-PCR tests and vaccinating people. And then the officers misbehave with us, target us….” Another doctor told reporters in Unnao on the condition of anonymity: “While we have been trying our best to treat Covid-19 patients in these unusual times, district-level officers misbehave with us without any reason. Our work is assessed by sub-divisional magistrates and tehsildars, who don’t understand that we are overburdened.” “We begin fieldwork at noon, visiting patients in home isolation, testing suspected cases and distributing medicines. As soon as we return in the afternoon, the officers call us for review meetings. We have to rush to the tehsil office, which is 25-30km from our health centres. Then these officers accuse us of being behind the rise in Covid cases. They threaten to register FIRs against us and send us to jail,” the doctor alleged. The doctors said that some of them had been transferred to the Covid control room, a 24-hour job that is seen as less important than running health centres, on the basis of complaints of influential patients that are never investigated. The doctors said they were feeling demoralised because of the “one-sided action” being taken against them. They pointed out that several doctors and health workers have died in the line of duty during the pandemic. Kakkar, the additional chief medical officer, said he had handed the doctors’ letter announcing their resignation to Dr Ashutosh Singh, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Unnao. Dr Singh said: “The allegation of misbehaviour with the doctors is wrong. I have received their resignation letter. The final decision will be taken after a discussion with senior administrative officers.” Ravindra Kumar, the district magistrate of Unnao, said: “The doctors are from our team and we will sort out their issues. We will sit together and discuss the problems.” On an average 100 daily Covid cases are recorded in Unnao. As per official records, there are 1,980 active cases in Unnao. The district has reported 168 deaths over the past month. There are 16 community health centres and 37 primary health centres in Unnao district. The CMO said: “There are some primary health centres where people rarely come. We have closed them temporarily and the staff have been shifted to the community health centres where there is a pressure of patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Times Group chairperson Indu Jain no more||Indu Jain, Times Group chairperson, died on Thursday because of Covid-related complications, company sources said. She was 84. Times Now TV channel, part of the Times Group, described Jain as a lifelong spiritual seeker, pioneering philanthropist, distinguished patron of the arts and passionate proponent of women’s rights. Jain was also the founder of the Times Foundation, the company’s vehicle for philanthropic activities, and the founder president of Ficci Ladies Organisation (FLO).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
