15-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tuktae: Modi reviews preparedness, asks states to ensure safety of all||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the preparedness of states, central ministries and agencies concerned to deal with the situation arising out of cyclone Tauktae and asked them to take every possible measure to ensure that people are safely evacuated. He also called for ensuring maintenance of all essential services such as power, telecommunications, health and drinking and their immediate restoration in the event of damages caused to them, a statement said. At the high-level meeting which was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah and top officials concerned, Modi directed them to ensure special preparedness on COVID management in hospitals, vaccine cold chain and other medical facilities on power backup and storage of essential medicines and to plan for unhindered movement of oxygen tankers, the PMO said. "He (PM) also directed the 24x7 functioning of control rooms. He also said that special care needs to be taken to ensure that there is least possible disruption in oxygen supply from Jamnagar. He also spoke about the need to involve the local community for timely sensitisation and relief measures," it added. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said at the meeting that cyclone Tauktae is expected to touch Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18 afternoon or evening with a wind speed ranging up to 175 kmph. It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Gujarat, including extremely heavy falls in Junagadh and Gir Somnath and heavy to very heavy rain at a few places in the districts of Saurashtra, Kutch and Diu, namely Gir Somnath, Diu, Junagadh, Porbandar, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Amreli, Rajkot, Jamnagar. The IMD also warned of storm surge of about two-three metre above astronomical tide to inundate coastal areas of Morbi, Kutch, Devbhoomi Dwarka and Jamnagar districts and one-two metre along Porbandar, Junagarh, Diu, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar and 0.5 to one metre over the remaining coastal districts of Gujarat, the statement said. The IMD has been issuing three hourly bulletins since May 13 with latest forecast to all the states concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
15-05-2021||India||Government, administration, public dropped guard after first wave, says RSS chief||After the first wave of Covid-19, the government, administration and public dropped their guard which led to the current situation, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Saturday and urged people to stay positive and proactive to fight the pandemic. Addressing a lecture series ‘Positivity Unlimited', Bhagwat said the country should stay united and work as a team in these testing times, instead of pointing fingers at each other. "We are facing this situation because, whether it was the government, administration or public, everyone dropped their guard after the first wave despite indications from doctors, he said. Bhagwat said there is talk of a third wave. “But, we will not be scared. We shall stand like a rock. We have to stay positive and take precautions to keep ourselves Covid negative in the present situation,” he said. The RSS chief said that this is not an appropriate time to point fingers and all should avoid making irrational remarks. Citing England's situation in World War II when everything seemed going against it, Bhagwat said a quote was written on the then prime minister Winston Churchills desk which read, "There is no pessimism in this office. We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They don't exist". Similarly, he said, in this situation, we can't give up on courage. We need to also have steely resolve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
15-05-2021||India||Gujarat, some other states under-reporting Covid deaths, alleges Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in some states especially in Gujarat and demanded an explanation from both the central and the state governments. Congress leaders P Chidambaram and Shaktisinh Gohil in a joint press conference alleged that the deaths in Gujarat this year have doubled than in 2020 and claimed that the substantial increase cannot be explained as a natural annual one and can only be attributed to a pandemic. The two Congress leaders cited a news report that claimed that Gujarat issued about 1,23,000 death certificates between March 1 and May 10, as against about 58,000 certificates issued during the same period last year and said they got these verified after collecting data from 33 districts of the state. The Congress leaders said the sum of the number of the death certificates collected nearly matches with the numbers published and that comes to 1,23,873 in 2021 against 58,068 last year. However, during the period March 1 to May 10, the government of Gujarat has officially admitted to only 4,218 Covid-related deaths. Chidambaram said the difference between the increase in the number of death certificates (65,805) and the official Covid-related deaths (4,218) must be explained. It cannot be explained as 'natural annual increase' or 'due to other causes', he noted. "We have a strong suspicion that the bulk of the increased number of deaths is due to Covid and the state government is suppressing the true number of Covid-related deaths. "Our suspicions are confirmed by the fact that hundreds of unidentified bodies have been found floating on the River Ganga and nearly 2000 unidentified bodies have been found buried on the sands along the River Ganga," he claimed. "We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true numbers of new infections and Covid-related deaths. If our suspicions are true, this is a grave misdeed apart from being a national shame and a national tragedy," he alleged. "The government of India and the government of Gujarat owe an explanation to the people of India. The Congress party, We demand answers and an explanation," Chidambaram said. He said it was a matter of shame if this was happening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
15-05-2021||India||Family, friends of Elgar-Parishad case accused plead for their temporary release amid Covid||Friends and family members of the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case accused, who are lodged in jails in and around Mumbai, on Saturday sought their release on interim bail in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the prisons lacked medical facilities to deal with the virus. The friends and relatives of 16 accused, including Hany Babu, Stan Swamy and Sudha Bharadwaj, made the demand during a virtual press conference. While the male accused in the case are lodged in Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail, the women accused are kept in Byculla prison of central Mumbai. Their kin said there was no planning or infrastructure in Taloja and Byculla jails to tackle the pandemic situation, which is why they should be granted interim bail. Jenny Rowena, wife of Hany Babu, said the situation in jails is very dangerous. "There is no plan in place. Even the jail staffers are getting infected with coronavirus. Jail hospitals don't have doctors or trained staff to take care of the patients," she said. "It seems there is no value to life if you are in a prison. A serious note should be taken and they (accused) should be temporarily released on bail," she said. Rowena had earlier said that Hany Babu had acute eye infection and was not getting proper medical treatment at the jail. During the press conference, she reiterated that Babu cannot see properly and suffers from double vision in one eye. Swamy's friend Father Joe Xavier said Swamy's sample was taken for Covid-19 testing in October last year. But now, although he has cough and fever, the jail authorities are not getting him tested for the virus, he alleged. He said during their last telephonic conversation, Swamy had told him that he was "fragile" and feeling helpless. Maaysha, daughter of Sudha Bharadwaj, said her mother has co-morbidity. "Bharadwaj already had health issues prior to her arrest and she has developed a number of problems in prison, due to the unhygienic living conditions there," she said. She is "extremely vulnerable" to the virus, her daughter added. Minal Gadling, wife of Surendra Gadling, alleged that her husband has been denied new spectacles by jail authorities for months. On Wednesday, the family members of these accused sent a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Udhav Thackeray, seeking their release from prisons in view of the pandemic. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at a conclave held in Pune city on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in the district. Pune Police claimed that the conclave was backed by Maoists. The case was later taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Activist Varavara Rao, also an accused in the case, had been granted bail by Bombay High Court earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 situation stabilising in India, 10 states account for 85% cases: Centre||The overall Covid-19 situation in the country is stabilising and the government will work towards ensuring further stabilisation, NITI Aayog member V K Paul said on Saturday. At a press conference on Saturday, top health officials said 10 states account for 85 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country. The Union Health Ministry said 11 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases, 17 have less than 50,000 cases while eight have active cases between 50,000 and one lakh. It also said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, which are recording a high number of novel coronavirus cases, are also reporting decline in the number of active cases. Twenty-four states have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 15 per cent while Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have reported a major drop in case positivity, it said. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 Covid-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated. "It is evident that we can see a certain amount of stabilisation of the second wave of the pandemic. Some states have shown a clear pattern, in some states there are concerns and in some others there is a trend towards an increase. It is a mixed picture. But overall, the situation is stabilising and we hope and we will work towards ensuring further stabilisation and rapid decline of this pandemic," Paul said. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health, said a total of 18.04 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far in the country. This includes 12.74 crore people above the age of 45 years, 1.62 crore healthcare workers, 2.25 crore frontline workers and 42.59 lakh people between the age of 18-44 years who have received their first dose. Agarwal also said the containment efforts of the government are working and the overall Covid-19 positivity rate in India, which stood at 21.9 per cent last week, has now fallen to 19.8 per cent. He also spoke of 'e-Sanjeevani OPD' which is a telemedicine platform that facilitates free online medical consultation to all citizens of India, as well as provides for online prescription of medicines. He said this 'Stay Home OPD' is operational in 28 states and has so far provided over 30,000 consultations by more than 17,000 doctors. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria also warned against the spread of mucormycosis and recommended that with Covid-19 cases increasing, it's of paramount importance that protocols of infection control practices are followed at hospitals. "It is been seen that secondary infections like fungal and bacterial are causing more mortality," Guleria said. The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor. Recently, several states have flagged cases of Covid-triggered mucormycosis, especially among patients who are diabetic. In an advisory released on May 9, the Centre said mucormycosis may turn fatal if uncared for. It also said the fungal infection mainly affects people who are on medication that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Kejriwal announces launch of oxygen concentrator bank for patients under home isolation||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced the launch of an oxygen concentrator bank for COVID patients requiring oxygen support in home isolation or those recuperating after discharge from hospital. He said despite declining cases and positivity rate in the national capital, there would be no laxity in the fight against the virus. Each district in Delhi will have a stock of 200 concentrators that will be rushed to the doorsteps of the patients requiring oxygen within two hours, Kejriwal said at an online briefing. Those requiring oxygen concentrators can call on the helpline number -- 1031 -- and it will be provided free of cost after it is recommended by the doctors, he said. "The oxygen bank will have 200 oxygen concentrators in each of the 11 districts for COVID patients under home isolation and for patients who have returned home after recovery from hospital but require oxygen support as recommended by the doctors," said the chief minister. The COVID patients who are not enrolled under home isolation protocol of the Delhi government may call 1031 and avail of the oxygen concentrator facility, he said. Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet said the COVID patients under home isolation or those discharged from the hospital can avail the facility of the first oxygen concentrator bank in Delhi, after it is prescribed by the doctors. Oxygen concentrators are portable devices that enrich oxygen content in the air breathed by a person. According to the Delhi government's health bulletin on Saturday, there are 42,482 COVID patients under home isolation out of 66,295 active cases. Kejriwal said often oxygen level drops in COVID patients and they can be saved from further deterioration if oxygen is given immediately . "If patients under home isolation require oxygen, our team will ensure the oxygen concentrator reaches them within two hours. A technician will also accompany the team to explain to the family members how to use the the device." Delhi government doctors will stay in touch with all those who are being given oxygen concentrators. If the need arises to send them to a hospital, it will be taken care of, he said. The oxygen concentrators will be returned after the patients do not need it. The devises will be sanitised, and given to other patients in need, he added. A team of Delhi government doctors will first ensure whether a person needs an oxygen concentrator or not. It will be provided after they give their recommendation, Kejriwal said. The oxygen concentrators will be delivered at the doorstep of patients by OLA Foundation and Give India, he said, thanking the two organisations. Atul Satija, GiveIndia CEO and founder said, "Through this initiative, we will provide oxygen concentrators to those who are in home-isolation or in recovery right at their doorstep." The chief operating officer of Ola Gaurav Porwal said, "As part of the O2forIndia initiative, we will provide free and easy access to oxygen concentrators to home isolation patients via the Ola app, and Ola cabs will provide free doorstep delivery and pick up." The chief minister hoped that the COVID cases and positivity rate will gradually decline. The number of COVID 19 cases in past 24 hours have further declined to around 6,500 with the positivity rate slipping to 11 per cent. The number of fresh cases were around 8,500 and the positivity rate was 12 per cent on Friday, he said. "However, there is no laxity in our work. Yesterday, we prepared 500 additional ICU beds, and 500 similar beds were prepared four days ago." Kejriwal lauded the doctors and engineers for making 1,000 ICU beds ready in Delhi in the last 15 days, saying they have set an example before the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Six-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passes away at 100||Senior Congress leader and six-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passed away after a brief illness, his family members said on Saturday. He was 100. Raghunandan Bhatia died at a private hospital here on Friday night and he is survived by his son Ramesh Bhatia, daughter Saroj Munjal and younger brother J L Bhatia, they said. He was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1972 from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency, and again re-elected from the same seat in the 1980, 1985, 1992, 1996 and 1999 elections as a member of the Indian National Congress. Raghunandan Bhatia had also served as the governor of Kerala from 2004 to 2008 and the governor of Bihar from 2008 to 2009. He had also served as the minister of state for external affairs in 1992. He, as a senior member of the Congress, held various positions in the party, including the post of Punjab unit president and general secretary. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed grief over the death of Raghunandan Bhatia. "Saddened to lose former Governor & Senior Congress Leader & six-time MP, Raghunandan Lal Bhatia Ji. My thoughts and prayers are with his family members in their hour of grief. May his soul rest in peace," the chief minister tweeted. Punjab Congress leader and MLA Raj Kumar Verka condoled the demise of Raghunandan Bhatia, describing him as 'Bhishma Pitamah' of the Indian politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Nearly 11,000 oxygen concentrators delivered to states in 15 days, says Centre||A total of 10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen-generation plants and 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials received as global aid were delivered or dispatched to various states and Union Territories from April 27 to May 13, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The major consignments received on May 13/14 from the US, Italy, Canada, South Korea, Oman, the UK and Japan include 157 oxygen concentrators, 900 oxygen cylinders and 338 ventilators/BiPAP/CPAP. According to the ministry, 68,810 vials of remdesivir and 1,000 units of tocilizumab were also received from these countries on May 13/14. Cumulatively, 10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen-generation plants, 6,835 ventilators or BiPAP and about 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air from April 27 to May 13, it said. "Effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states and union territories and institutions is an ongoing exercise," it said. The Union Health Ministry is comprehensively monitoring this on a regular basis. A dedicated coordination cell has been created in the ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations. This cell started functioning from April 26. A standard operating procedure has been framed and implemented by the health ministry since May 2, 2021. The Government of India, at the forefront of the "whole of government" approach to combat the ongoing Covid-19, has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries or organisations to augment its efforts in fighting the unprecedented surge of cases. Through a streamlined and systematic mechanism, various ministries and departments of the Government of India have seamlessly collaborated for expeditiously delivering the incoming global aid to states and Union Territories, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Focus on door-to-door testing in rural areas, PM says in Covid meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for augmenting healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance and asserted that localised containment strategies are the need of the hour, especially in states with high positivity rates in districts. Chairing a high-level meeting, Modi said states should be encouraged to report their Covid-19 numbers transparently "without any pressure of high numbers showing adversely on their efforts", remarks that come amid reports that many states have been under-reporting their case and fatality tallies. Modi also directed that a distribution plan for ensuring oxygen supply in rural areas should be worked out, including through provision of oxygen concentrators, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. He said necessary training should be provided to health workers in the operation of such equipment, and power supply should be ensured for the smooth operation of such medical devices, it said. Unlike the first wave of Covid-19 cases last year when rural India was not badly hit, the region has been seriously affected by the second wave in several states. Prime Minister Modi sought empowering ASHA and anganwadi workers with all necessary tools. Testing needs to be scaled up further, with use of both RT-PCR and rapid tests, especially in areas with high test positivity rates, he added. The PMO noted that testing has gone up rapidly in the country, from around 50 lakh tests per week in early March to around 1.3 crore tests per week now. Modi was briefed about the gradually decreasing test positivity rate and increasing recovery rate, it said, adding that cases had gone over four lakh per day and are now coming down as a result of the efforts of healthcare workers, state governments and the central government. Officials gave a detailed presentation on the state and district level situation of Covid-19 testing, oxygen availability, healthcare infrastructure and vaccination roadmap. The prime minister also took serious note of some reports about ventilators lying unutilised in storage in some states and directed that an immediate audit of installation and operation of ventilators provided by the central government be carried out. He added that refresher training for properly operating ventilators should be provided to healthcare workers if necessary, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Farmers to observe ‘black day’ on May 26 to mark 6 months of protest||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as ‘black day', marking six months of their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three farm laws. In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations. "On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day," Rajewal said. A large number of farmers reached Delhi's borders on November 26 after facing water cannons and police barriers as part of their "Delhi Chalo" march against the Centre's farm laws. Thousands of farmers from across the country joined the protest in the following months at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders around the national capital. Rajewal appealed to people to support the call for observing black day on May 26. "We appeal to people of the country and also Punjab to hang black flags at their house, shops, trucks and other vehicles. We will also burn effigies of (PM) Narendra Modi as a form of protest," he added. He said that the government has not heard the farmers' demands to repeal the three farm laws and "with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible". Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||NDRF teams deployed, Navy on standby as cyclone Tuktae approaches Gujarat||The deep depression over the Arabian Sea has intensified into cyclonic storm Tauktae and is likely to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.
It said Tauktae will be a very severe cyclonic storm from May 16-18.
In a bulletin released at 1:45 PM, the IMD said, "It (Tauktae) is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next six hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around 18th May afternoon/evening."
Both the Centre and states have been gearing up to deal with the cyclone that has been building up over the Arabian Sea for days now.
Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an important meeting to review preparations to deal with the impending Cyclone Tauktae, according to government sources.
The National Disaster Response Force has increased from 53 to 100 the number of teams earmarked to undertake relief and rescue measures in the aftermath of the cyclone. The force's Director-General, S N Pradhan, said in a tweet that these teams are being mobilised for deployment in the coastal regions of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Goa and Maharashtra.
The Central Water Commission has also issued a moderate to high risk alert over watersheds in central and northern parts of Kerala, adjoining south coastal and south interior Karnataka.
The government machinery in Goa has put in place necessary measures to tackle the situation in view of the warning about Cyclone Tauktae.
According to the IMD, Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 15 and 16. The Goa Fire and Emergency Services said it has kept its personnel ready to tackle the situation.
Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the authorities in coastal districts of the state to remain alert and well-equipped to tackle the situation. On late Friday night, the Indian Navy announced that its ships, aircraft, helicopters, diving and disaster relief teams are on standby for “rendering full support to state administrations” in view of Tauktae. Goa gears up too The government machinery in Goa has put in place necessary measures to tackle the situation in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae, officials said on Saturday. As per the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) prediction, Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 15 and 16 as the weather condition is very likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Tauktae. The Goa Fire and Emergency Services said it has kept its personnel ready to tackle the situation. "We have kept our force ready to face any kind of eventualities arising out of the cyclone," its director Ashok Menon told PTI. The Emergency Services, with its force of 800 personnel, have taken proactive steps in this regard, he said. "The cyclonic winds and rains that lashed the state on Friday did not cause much damage," Menon added. The disaster management response forces of the state's two districts - South Goa and North Goa - led by the respective collectors, held meetings on Friday to check the preparedness. According to officials, as a curfew is in place in the state till May 24 due to the coronavirus situation, the impact of the cyclone is likely to be less severe. State Ports Minister Michael Lobo said the entire beach belt in this tourist state is currently empty. "Due to the curfew, all the restaurants and regular activities in the coastal belt are shut. People are also not allowed to move on the beaches. This will help in ensuring that the impact of the cyclone remains minimal," he said. Sanguem tehsil in South Goa witnessed several incidents of trees falling due to cyclonic winds on Friday. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar said he has been personally requesting people not to venture out during the weekend in view of the cyclone warning. "I have requested people to stay indoors and be safe from the cyclone," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||First repatriation flight from India arrives in Australia after end of Covid travel ban||The first repatriation flight carrying Australians stranded in India landed in Darwin on Saturday following the end of the federal government's controversial ban on them from returning home. The repatriation flights facilitated by the Australian government for its stranded citizens in India resumed from Friday following a two weeks ban due to the COVID-19 health crisis in India. The Qantas jet touched down at the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) base shortly before 9:00 am local time. It was scheduled to carry up to 150 passengers but in the end, only carried 80 people back to Australia. Many passengers on the first flight on Friday were grounded due to COVID-19 positive test results, Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O'Farrell was quoted as saying by ABC News. A total of 70 people were barred from boarding. 46 of those tested positive to COVID-19, while 24 others were identified as close contacts. The arrivals will be taken to the Howard Springs centre. Passengers on this flight had to undergo and return a negative result on two tests before they could get on the plane a PCR test in the two days beforehand and then a rapid antigen test. The Australian government had introduced the travel ban for its residents and citizens a fortnight ago to mitigate the risk of high infection rate at its quarantine facilities, including the Howard Springs centre in Darwin. The repatriation flight was the first flight after the Australian government imposed a temporary ban with a threat of criminal sanctions, including five years in jail and fines of up to 66,000 Australian dollars for people who try to return from India. The next flight from India is scheduled in just over a week. Almost 10,000 Australians, permanent residents and their immediate family members are seeking to return to Australia with around 1,000 who have been prioritised as 'vulnerable' for health or financial reasons. The flight from Australia to India on Friday to bring back the Australians carried 1,056 ventilators, 60 oxygen concentrators and other essential supplies, adding to medical equipment sent last week. Prime minister Scott Morrison said the controversial weeks-long pause in travel from India had worked. Australia has delivered over 15 tonnes of medical supplies to India, including over 2,000 ventilators and more than 100 oxygen concentrators. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 COVID-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||India adds over 3.26 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,890 casualties in a day||India on Friday recorded 3,26,098 COVID-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has increased to 2,04,32,898, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.09 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country's case tally crossed the two-crore mark on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 31,30,17,193 samples have been tested up to May 14 with 6,93,093 samples being tested on Friday. The 3,890 new fatalities include 695 from Maharashtra, 373 from Karnataka, 311 from Uttar Pradesh, 289 from Delhi, 288 from Tamil Nadu, 181 from Uttarakhand, 180 from Punjab, 172 from Chhattisgarh, 164 from Haryana, 155 from Rajasthan, 136 from West Bengal and 104 from Gujarat. So far, 2,66,207 deaths have been reported in the country, including 79,552 from Maharashtra, 21,085 from Karnataka, 20,907 from Delhi, 17,056 from Tamil Nadu, 16,957 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,993 from West Bengal, 11,477 from Punjab and 11,461, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Modi to review preparations to deal with Cyclone Tauktae||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an important meeting on Saturday to review preparations to deal with impending Cyclone Tauktae, government sources said. Top officers from across government departments, including the National Disaster Management Authority, will attend the meeting, they said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Friday that the depression in the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" on May 17 and cross the Gujarat coast a day later. The weather condition has intensified into a deep depression. It is very likely to further intensify into cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' by Saturday morning and very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm by Saturday night, it had said. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 53 teams to tackle possible after effects of Cyclone 'Tauktae' that is developing in the Arabian Sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Modi finally talks about the epidemic at PM-KISAN event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday came out to share the “pain” of citizens who had lost loved ones to Covid, breaking his silence after several prominent BJP supporters and Right-wing foot soldiers too had lambasted the government’s mismanagement of the crisis. Modi, however, did not directly mention the shortages of oxygen, drugs, vaccines and hospital beds that have earned him condemnation at home and abroad, choosing instead to give general assurances and a pep talk about not losing “courage”. His references to the epidemic came towards the end of an online event, held to advertise a two-year-old scheme involving a yearly assistance of Rs 6,000 to poor and marginal farmers, and mostly featuring cheery virtual conversations with pre-selected organic farmers. Modi told a farmer from Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, that organic farming would help cleanse “Ganga Ma”, ignoring how corpses were being dumped into the river as the Covid death toll choked crematories, and how 175 bodies had been found buried on the Ganga’s banks in Unnao. Eventually, with a sombre expression, the Prime Minister sought to empathise with the people’s “pain”. “Because of this enemy, this coronavirus, we have lost many people close to us. The pain that people of the country have suffered, I feel it equally. As the Pradhan Sevak of the country, I share your every sentiment,” he said during the over-an-hour event, aired live on online platforms of his government and party. Modi went on to assure the people of victory over the virus, claiming the government and the armed forces were striving to remove all bottlenecks. “Bharat himmat harnewala desh nahi hai. Na Bharat himmat harega, na koi Bharatvasi himmat harega. Hum ladenge aur jitenge (India is not a country to lose courage. Neither India nor any Indian will lose courage. We shall fight and win),” he declared. Modi has been pilloried in foreign newspapers for continuing with his Central Vista “vanity project” instead of diverting its funds to battle the virus amid daily reports of people dying for lack of medical oxygen and depleted vaccination centres downing shutters. His government, which had prematurely celebrated “victory” over the epidemic instead of preparing to meet the second wave predicted by experts, has been accused of aggravating the situation by allowing massive poll rallies and the Kumbh congregation in Haridwar. While Modi was seeking to reassure citizens, a report said 75 Covid patients had died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital over the past four days because of “logistic issues” in the supply of oxygen. All through the people’s sufferings, Modi had remained silent. Friday’s outreach came after some members of the Right-wing ecosystem slammed the administration’s failure to help their Covid-infected near ones and pro-BJP opinion makers expressed disappointment with the government. “Modi’s image has certainly taken a beating. It is, therefore, time to introspect and, if necessary, course correct,” wrote Makarand R. Paranjape, director of the Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, and a known supporter of the Modi government. In an article that echoed a report in Britain’s Financial Times on Thursday that suggested the Covid crisis had “diminished” Modi, Paranjape said the Prime Minister should show more “humanity and humility”. “Especially during a national crisis, it does not help a leader if he appears aloof, isolated, extraordinary, exceptional — or impervious to advice, and above criticism,” he wrote. Bollywood actor Anupam Kher, a known Modi fan and husband of a BJP parliamentarian, too has chided the government. “Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image-building maybe,” Kher said recently, adding that people should get angry and hold the government accountable. Modi had last spoken on Covid during his April 25 Mann Ki Baat, participating in conversations with healthcare workers who painted an optimistic picture of the government’s handling of the situation. He had earlier on April 20 referred to the epidemic, mainly to announce that there would be no nationwide lockdown. He has since then been largely silent while Union ministers and BJP leaders have been counter-attacking his critics and the RSS has been holding “Positivity Unlimited” lectures. At Friday’s virtual event, attended by Union ministers, chief ministers, MPs and MLAs — mostly from the BJP — it did not seem at first that Modi would mention the Covid crisis. Only after one-to-one online interactions with half-a-dozen farmers from different states did Modi turn to the epidemic. He said efforts were on to set up hospitals and oxygen plants and urged people to get vaccinated, but didn’t refer to the vaccine shortage. “I want to alert the people living in the villages: the coronavirus is spreading fast in our villages too,” he said, urging village heads to ensure people wore masks and practised physical distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: India's decision to expand Covishield dose gap comes six weeks too late||India delayed by more than six weeks a decision to expand the gap between the first and second Covishield vaccine doses to beyond three months although data to support the decision was available in March, medical experts have said. The delay possibly prevented many people from receiving a dosing schedule that had been found to be far more effective than that initially adopted in India. (See chart) The Union health ministry said on Thursday that it had accepted a recommendation from two advisory panels on May 12 to expand the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks recommended by them on March 22. The ministry said the panels — the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) — had decided to expand the gap after new “real-world evidence” emerged from the UK. The gap of 6-8 weeks adopted by India in March — after an initial 4-6 weeks interval — was a deviation from the World Health Organisation’s guidance in February that recommended an interval of 8-12 weeks on the basis of data that showed greater vaccine efficacy with delayed gaps. “These are pure science-based decisions,” NEGVAC’s chair Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of the Niti Aayog, India’s apex government think tank, had asserted on Thursday, saying the NTAGI had relied on the “real-life experience” of millions of vaccinated individuals in the UK. But doctors and vaccine experts say the change in the dosing gap twice in six weeks would have likely contributed to confusion among some vaccine recipients and many may have hurried for second doses amid the current surge of infections. India’s vaccination campaign has so far administered about 162 million doses of Covishield, which is produced by the Serum Institute of India and accounts for 90 per cent of the total doses injected. The home-grown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech accounts for the balance 10 per cent. The data from the UK’s medicines regulatory authority, based on clinical trials with the AstraZeneca vaccine available well before February, showed a 60 per cent vaccine efficacy with the 6-8 weeks dosing interval and an 80 per cent efficacy with a dosing interval of 12 weeks or more. The UK had also adopted the 8-to-12-week gap. “I think there was little rationale for the 6-to-8-week dosing interval back in March,” an independent vaccination specialist who is not associated with the Indian government or with the two advisory panels told The Telegraph. “The 12-week dosing interval provides a 20 per cent gain in efficacy and it would have allowed more people to get the first dose of the vaccine between March and now,” said the specialist who requested not to be named. “But it is good India has now increased the interval.” Questions sent by this newspaper to the NTAGI and the NEGVAC asking about the real-world evidence from the UK that the advisory panels had used to recommend the expanded gap have not elicited responses. Paul, explaining the latest change on Thursday, had said that when the NTAGI examined the data in March it looked as if “breakthrough infections” (infections after vaccination) would increase. “We cannot afford to increase the risk — the purpose of vaccination is protection,” he said. He said the NTAGI had examined additional data from the UK’s vaccination experience as part of periodic data reviews. “When we looked at that data and WHO experts were consulted, from the perspective of science, we had confidence to adopt this (latest) change. And there will be no extra risk to people.” Two vaccine science researchers familiar with developments associated with the AstraZeneca vaccine said they were unaware of any additional data that may have emerged between March 22 and May 12 that could have prompted the NTAGI to change its recommendation. “They should have done this in March,” one of the researchers said. “It is unclear why they didn’t; only the NTAGI can explain.” Some doctors speculate that the vaccine shortage may have stirred the rethink. The change will mean more people can get first doses faster at a time when states have offered to vaccinate adults 18 years or older but are struggling to meet the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Delhi police questions Youth Congress president for helping Covid patients and their families||Delhi police’s crime branch on Friday questioned Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas about the help the organisation was providing to Covid patients and their families, prompting the Congress to post this message: “For Modi-Shah, compassion is crime.” Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, said they were following a Delhi High Court order, and the BJP said some of its leaders had been questioned too. But the Congress targeted the government. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Bachane wala hamesha maarne waale se bada hota hai (The saviour is always bigger than the killer).” Party spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s motto was “Na madad karunga, na karne dunga (Neither will I help people nor let anybody else do so).” It was a tweaked version of Modi’s 2014 poll promise of “Na khaunga, na khane dunga (Neither will I take bribes nor let anyone else do so).” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala held a news conference to say Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were following “raid dharma” and not “raj dharma”. “We are ready to face the extremes of Modi’s zulm (tyranny),” he said. Srinivas himself was unruffled. “Somebody has filed a public interest litigation asking how these people are able to help so many patients. The crime branch team came and asked me how we managed to help people,” he said. “I told them the details. They wanted a written answer. We have given that as well. I don’t want to give much significance to this. Our focus is to help people. That will continue non-stop. We are not scared of the police or any PIL.” Under Srinivas’s leadership, the Youth Congress has been responding to calls for help from every part of the country. With a network of around 1,000 dedicated workers, it has been providing food and delivering oxygen cylinders, remdesivir injections and medicine at Covid patients’ doorstep, apart from arranging hospital admissions and transport. Srinivas has personally performed the last rites of the dead whose families couldn’t arrange funerals. Politicians across party lines have approached him for help, as have people from remote corners of the country, journalists and even foreign embassies. Apart from the domestic media, CNN and BBC have profiled him. BJP leaders, including MP Gautam Gambhir and spokesperson Harish Khurana who too have been questioned by the police in connection with the distribution of relief material, said the issue should not be politicised. But Surjewala denied that a routine inquiry was being turned into a political controversy. “Has the court ordered a raid on the Youth Congress office? Has the court said that those who are helping people should be humiliated, demoralised? This is a childish lie,” he said. “Have you seen the crime branch at the BJP headquarters? Have they questioned their youth wing chief? The government is rattled by the remarkable service done by the Youth Congress and is using the police to demoralise them. This is vulgar politics by the BJP.” Congress leaders insisted that this was not the time to set the police after those who were selflessly helping Covid patients, and that the government’s priority should be to help the desperate and the dying. Almost every state Congress unit and a large number of party leaders unleashed a fierce campaign on social media. “India, don’t worry. Nothing can scare us. We are at your service come what may,” one of the messages said. Another said: “You are asking us how we are helping. The world is watching our service. When will you be accountable for PM-Cares Fund?” The high court, hearing a public interest plea, had on May 4 directed the police to examine instances of politicians procuring and distributing remdesivir in Delhi and lodge FIRs if evidence emerged of any offence, PTI reported. Gohil said that if the government wanted to crack down on black marketeering and hoarding, it should have started by interrogating the Gujarat BJP chief, accused of possessing 5,000 remdesivir vials, and the son of a BJP leader in Surat who was allegedly manufacturing fake drugs. “None of our leaders has been found hoarding. We are collecting small donations and arranging things for the needy,” he said. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey and Delhi Congress vice-president Ali Mehdi too have been questioned by the police, PTI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Rajya Sabha office rejects Oppn request for online panel meets||The Rajya Sabha secretariat has turned down an Opposition request to convene virtual meetings of parliamentary committees, citing the need to maintain the confidentiality of proceedings. The decision, it was learnt, was communicated to the leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, in a letter on Friday. Kharge had written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Nadu last Sunday requesting virtual meetings of the committees to maintain legislative oversight on the actions of the executive. Because of the second wave of the pandemic and the lockdowns in several states, in-person meetings are not being scheduled. According to the secretariat’s letter, the presiding officers of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha discussed the matter and noted that the existing provisions for parliamentary committee meetings mandate the confidentiality of proceedings, which cannot be assured in the virtual format. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, the two presiding officers had decided that the issue could be referred to the committees of rules of both Houses but since the parliamentary panels were meeting in person, the matter was not followed up. Once the two committees decide to amend the rules of procedure, it has to be cleared by the respective Houses. Several Opposition MPs, including Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien and the Congress’s Jairam Ramesh, have repeatedly urged the presiding officer to allow virtual meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: 175 bodies found buried on riverbank||Scores of families are burying their dead on riverbanks, just as many others are dumping the bodies in rivers, underlining how a high Covid death toll has left crematory space and firewood scarce and too expensive. Residents of the adjoining villages of Shivrajpur and Rautapur in Unnao district, central Uttar Pradesh, found half-a-dozen decomposing corpses half-buried on the Ganga’s banks at the contiguous Khereshwar Ghat and Buxar Ghat on Thursday afternoon. Storm and rain had swept away the top layers of the sand and revealed the bodies. After hours of digging under the police’s watch, the body count had risen to 175 by Friday morning. Most of the dead had been buried about two feet under the sand. “Since the families fear that someone would spot them, they hurriedly dig up two feet of sand under the cover of darkness and bury the bodies,” Umesh Kumar, a Shivrajpur resident, said. He said all the bodies had been buried in a 600sqm area, some of them hardly two feet from one another, suggesting “the families had coordinated with each other while picking the spots”. Villagers said the bodies would have been buried recently since a similar thunderstorm five to six days ago had revealed no bodies. They said 14 people had died of Covid in Shivrajpur and Rautapur over the past three days, adding that some of the buried bodies would have come from nearby villagers and some from towns such as Unnao (10km away), Fatehpur (30km) and Rae Bareli (40km) “With space for cremation at a premium everywhere, towns people have been bringing bodies in tempos to our two cremation ghats, which are large and well-known,” a villager said, declining to give his name. “But they too have run out of space. Some of the staff there would have advised the families to bury the bodies on the nearby riverbank at night.” Umesh said: “The long wait for cremation is one reason people are burying the dead in the sand. The other is the spiralling cost of firewood, which rose from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 per quintal in the past one month.” He added: “We suspect that all the dead were Covid patients because the coronavirus toll is very high in this area.” K.S. Kanaujia, circle officer for the area, kept up the trend of officials denying dumping of bodies by local people, saying: “Maybe people from the neighbouring district (Fatehpur) have done this.” Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said: “We have appealed to the people to cremate their dead according to rituals.” The local administration has put up banners along the Ganga’s ghats urging people not to bury the dead anywhere they want. The district magistrate has asked the police and panchayat revenue officers to watch the riverbanks. Earlier this week, corpses were found floating down the Ganga in Buxar (Bihar) and Ghazipur and Ballia (eastern Uttar Pradesh), and down the Ramganga in Bareilly (western Uttar Pradesh). A video of dogs dragging and mauling two bodies has gone viral on social media, adds PTI. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered on Friday that the State Disaster Response Force and the Provincial Armed Constabulary should patrol rivers and ensure no bodies are disposed of there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: NHRC issues advisory to ensure the dignified disposal of bodies||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued an advisory to all states to ensure the dignified disposal of bodies on the ground that the fundamental right to life and dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution should extend to the dead. The advisory comes at a time bodies are being handled in a cavalier and inhuman manner as crematoriums and burial grounds overflow with the Covid dead. Relatives are also being forced to dispose of bodies in rivers, unable to find space at crematoriums or failing to pay the exorbitant rates being charged at many places. The NHRC issued recommendations, including enactment of legislation for the disposal of bodies. It recalled that the Supreme Court had recognised that the right to life, fair treatment and dignity should be extended to the dead. “There is no specific law in India for protecting the rights of the dead. However, the courts have time and again reiterated to uphold the dignity and protect the rights of the dead,” the NHRC said. “These rights have been derived from Article 21 of the Constitution. Further, recognition of posthumous legal rights gives the dead significant moral standing within our legal system. The law also strives to honour a decedent’s wishes and to protect his interests,” the commission said in a statement. According to the commission, in both natural and unnatural deaths it is the duty of the State to protect the rights of the deceased and prevent crimes over bodies. The NHRC issued the following recommendations: ⚫ Enact specific legislation to protect the rights of the dead and uphold their dignity. ⚫ Set up temporary crematoriums to avoid delay. ⚫ Sensitise the staff at crematoriums, burial grounds and cemeteries about proper handling of bodies. The staff should be given safety equipment. ⚫ Allow those last rites that do not require touching the bodies. ⚫ In cases where families are not in a position to perform the last rites, the state or local administration may do so. ⚫ Encourage use of electric crematoriums to avoid health hazards posed by smoke from burning pyres. ⚫ Piling of bodies during transportation or at any other place must not be allowed. ⚫ Mass burials and cremations should not be permitted. ⚫ Proper identification of bodies must be done, as also handling of information on the diseased. ⚫ Curbing arbitrary hikes in ambulance or hearse charges. ⚫ Staff handling bodies should be protected and fairly paid. They should be vaccinated on priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka Congress to use their LAD funds to the tune of Rs 100 crore  for vaccines ||The Congress’s Karnataka unit on Friday announced that the party’s MPs, MLAs and MLCs would allocate Rs 100 crore from their local area development funds to procure vaccines. “The government has miserably failed to protect the people and vaccinate them. Hence, the MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the Congress, who are 95 in number, have decided to donate at least Rs 1 crore each to procure vaccines,” former chief minister Siddaramaiah, who is also the Congress legislative party leader, said at a news conference here. According to him, a total of Rs 100 crore will be given by the Congress leaders of Karnataka for the purpose. State Congress chief D.K. Shivakumar, who accompanied Siddaramaiah, said the Congress parliamentarians and legislators were ready to stop development projects in their areas. “It is our bounden duty to save lives rather than carry out development works,” he added. He said the party would write to chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa to utilise their funds for vaccine procurement. Later in a statement, the state Congress unit said it needed two small permissions, one from the central government and another from the state government, to allow the diversion of LAD funds for vaccine procurement. “My appeal to the BJP is to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat (and) allow the Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines,” it quoted Shivakumar as saying. Currently, vaccine procurement rules in India allow central and state governments, hospitals and industries to directly procure vaccines, the party said. “I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Modi and Yediyurappa governments are failing to do so for months now,” the Congress quoted Shivakumar as saying. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: RAT kits sent from UP headquarters turns out to be faulty||When all 10,000 people tested negative for the coronavirus amid a raging pandemic, health officials in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district smelt a RAT. Sources in the district health department said that thousands of Covid rapid antigen test (RAT) kits sent from the state headquarters in Lucknow had turned out to be faulty. According to the sources, when experts had pointed out that all results were coming out negative, seniors in the district health department had insisted that they continue testing with the same kits. When finally RT-PCR tests were conducted on people suspected to be infected from among the 10,000 tested earlier with the RAT kits, 700 were found to be infected over two days, the sources said. Rapid antigen tests are anyway not considered reliable as they frequently throw up false negatives, but they are used because they give quick results. RT-PCR tests are considered the gold standard in Covid detection. The sources in the Bareilly health department said the RAT kits had been supplied to community health centres and medical mobile units from the state headquarters in Lucknow last month. “As we began using the kits, the experts suspected that they were not giving correct results. All the test reports were coming out negative even if the swab samples had been collected from people with high fever, cough and other symptoms of Covid,” a health department official said on the condition of anonymity. “We informed our seniors about the problem in April-end but they asked us to continue testing with the same kits. Eventually all 10,000 people we had tested turned out to be negative,” the official added. He said that finally on May 3, teams in Bareilly were asked to visit the houses of people who had turned up with symptoms for the antigen tests and conduct RT-PCR tests. “We had suspected that at least 10 per cent of those who had undergone the antigen tests were infected. We have now begun getting the results of the RT-PCR tests. We got 300 positive reports on Tuesday and 400 on Wednesday,” the official said. “These people have now been asked to quarantine themselves. All this while they had been mixing with others at home and probably outside, thinking that they were Covid-negative. We fear the infection has now spread among many others,” he added. The health authorities in Bareilly conceded that the RAT kits were faulty. Ranjan Gautam, the assistant chief medical officer of Bareilly, said: “There is lack of clarity on the antigen test reports. We have ordered the remaining kits to be replaced as we had received complaints about them. The faulty kits have been returned to the headquarters. Those whose RT-PCR samples have been collected in the past few days have been asked to stay in home isolation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Gangsters shot dead by undertrial inmate in Uttar Pradesh prison||Gangster Mukeem Kala, who had been the centrepiece of a communal BJP campaign before the 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections alleging a Hindu exodus from Shamli district for fear of criminals, was shot dead by another inmate at Chitrakoot central jail on Friday, police said. Anand Kumar, the director-general of the prisons department, said in the afternoon: “Anshul Dixit, an undertrial, shot and killed Mukeem Kala and Meraz Ali, two inmates, inside the high-security barracks of Chitrakoot jail at 10am. He also tried to kill five other inmates. The police rushed to the barracks and tried in vain to control him. They had to fire at him and kill him.” According to sources, Mukeem, a resident of Shamli, had 56 cases of murder, dacoity and extortion against him, while Meraz had been a member of gangster turned politician Mukhtar Ansari’s gang. Anshul, a resident of Sitapur, was a contract killer the sources said. The late Hukum Singh, the then BJP parliamentarian of Kairana in Shamli district, had in June 2016 created a flutter by alleging an exodus of Hindu residents to Haryana and Delhi for fear of Mukeem’s gang. Singh had release a list of 409 Shamli residents who he claimed had fled because of extortion demands and murder threats from the gang. However, the claim had come under strain when journalists found out that many of those named in the list had never left Shamli and had no idea that such a claim had been made about them. Some others had said they had left Shamli because of business-related reasons. However, Singh’s allegation was used to the hilt by the BJP to run a communal campaign before the 2017 Assembly elections. BJP leaders, including Adityanath, used to claim in their speeches that Hindus were fleeing Shamli for fear of Muslim criminals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Shortages of funeral wood, hearses and crematorium slots||Ashok Khondare, a 39-year-old vegetable seller in Pune, had already borrowed money to pay for his sister’s treatment when she died in a private hospital two weeks after contracting Covid-19. While trying to overcome the tragedy, he also had to deal with money problems that increased with his sister’s death. The only available hearse driver charged Rs 5,000 ($68) for a 6km journey to the nearest crematorium — five times the going rate. When Khondare reached there, there was a long queue of dead bodies and waits of more than a day. He agreed to pay another Rs 7,000 to jump the queue. “I had been experiencing a terrible situation for a fortnight,” he said. “I couldn’t sleep or eat properly. I wanted to end this as early as possible and didn’t mind paying an irrational amount.” India’s second wave of the coronavirus has not only created shortages of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, but also of wood for funeral pyres, hearses and crematorium slots, forcing people like Khondare to pay exorbitant amounts to perform the last rites of loved ones. India is reporting by far the highest number of new daily cases globally, and over 4,000 deaths per day — figures that are almost certainly under-reported, according to experts. “There is huge demand for firewood used for funeral pyres at crematoria, but supplies are not sufficient,” said Rohit Pardeshi, a firewood merchant in Satara, a city in the western Indian state of Maharashtra. Due to a local lockdown designed to curb the pandemic, there is a shortage of people to cut trees and those workers who are available are asking for higher wages. “This has created a shortage of firewood and lifted prices,” Pardeshi said. Retail prices for firewood are up by at least 30 per cent, and have more than doubled in some areas, said a second firewood seller in the same city. In Uttar Pradesh, 24-year-old Mukul Chaudhary faced similar problems after his mother died in the state capital Lucknow. The ambulance driver who dropped his mother off at the hospital for Rs 5,000 charged even more to take her body to the crematorium. “We had to beg him not to overcharge us further,” Chaudhary said. Firewood for the cremation cost double the normal rate, while the priest who performed the last rites charged the family Rs 5,000 — two to five times the usual amount. Rohit Jangam, a Hindu priest in Satara, said many priests there were refusing to enter crematoriums out of fear, and those who were willing were charging higher prices. “It is too risky to perform the last rites of those who died because of coronavirus,” he said. “If someone asks, I do, but I charge more since I am taking the risk.” He declined to disclose how much more he was charging. For Covid patients who manage to survive, black marketing of medical supplies is rampant, with desperate relatives paying huge sums in what is still a low-income country. In the capital New Delhi, oxygen cylinders have changed hands for as much as Rs 70,000, according to interviews with relatives — twenty times the usual price and many times the monthly salary of the average Indian. Police there have made more than 100 arrests in cases connected with overcharging, including for drugs, ambulance services and hospital beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Elgaar Parishaad case: Hany Babu in hospital, family in the dark||Jailed Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu M.T. has been admitted to a Mumbai hospital after he apparently tested positive for Covid-19 when he went there for a second opinion on an acute eye infection that had been festering for some time. Babu has been an undertrial at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison since last year for an alleged Elgaar Parishad-Maoist plot to incite violence at an Ambedkarite event in Bhima-Koregaon in 2018. His wife Jenny Rowena, who too teaches at DU, said in a statement: “It was only after Hany’s lawyer, Ms Payoshi Roy, made over 8 calls to the prison and sent another email dated 10.5.2021 emphasising the gravity of the situation that Hany was taken to J.J. Hospital, Mumbai, on 12.5.2021. On 13.5.2021, Jenny, Hany Babu’s wife, received a phone call from Taloja prison and was informed that Hany had been admitted to J.J. Hospital. She was not informed of either his diagnosis, nor the treatment being administered, and not even the time of his admission. “Now at about 7.30pm (on Thursday), when Hany’s mother arrived at J.J. Hospital to meet her son, she was informed by a nurse that Hany has tested Covid-positive. We are yet to receive any official information either from the prison or from the NIA. Despite requests we have not received any information regarding his CT count, his vital statistics and the results of any tests conducted.” CT, cycle threshold, is a marker of the viral load. Jenny said: “We do not want to leave him at the mercy of a system that treats undertrial prisoners with such cruel indignity and does not believe that it owes us the courtesy of even informing us of Hany’s condition and treatment or that Hany and his family have a right to know and participate in his treatment. “I appeal to the state government to immediately shift Hany to a multi-speciality hospital with the required expertise and facilities, such that Hany can get the best possible treatment in his present condition. I also request that we be given a complete copy of Hany’s medical documents and be updated in real time on a contemporaneous basis on every development regarding Hany’s health so that we can take all necessary decisions in order to protect his life and ensure his safety and well-being.” In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, relatives of the 15 undertrials in the Bhima-Koregaon case had appealed for interim bail, reasoning that many of them had comorbidities that increased their vulnerability to Covid-19. The letter said: “The Supreme Court of India has empowered state governments to form high-power committees which could then decide upon the release of prisoners in each state. We urge you to recommend to the committee to release the BK (Bhima-Koregaon) undertrials on interim bail at least.” Folk artiste Jyoti Jagtap is in isolation for Covid-19 at Mumbai’s Byculla District Prison. Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, now on bail, had to be hospitalised while in prison after he tested positive for the virus, which aggravated his other health issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: St Stephen’s College plea to call off online exams||Students of St Stephen’s College have urged the authorities to cancel the proposed online exams and adopt an alternative method of assessment in view of the acute distress caused by the pandemic. The college was supposed to start the semester exams for second-year and third-year undergraduate students from May 15 and 18, respectively, but has deferred it by two weeks. A new notice on the exams is expected to be issued. A petition endorsed by 418 students has been sent to principal John Varghese urging him to consider performance in internal assessments and/or previous semesters for the evaluation. The college has around 1,200 students. “Given the worsening Covid-19 situation gripping our country at present, the student community of St Stephen’s College is deeply distressed. A lot of our students along with their family members are infected by the virus. We’ve lost our near and dear ones to the disease. Many students have to act as caregivers to their Covid-infected family members and friends,” said the petition. As the period of recovery from Covid varies from person to person, infected students might not be able to appear for the exams at a later date too, the petition said. Children of frontline Covid workers are especially vulnerable, it added. Many teachers and staff are also down with Covid. Holding exams would mean that some teachers and staff would have to go to college, risking themselves and their families, the petition pointed out. The students argued that under the choice-based credit system, the sixth, or last, semester of a three-year undergraduate course was no longer considered the final and most important test, rather it was just a part of the six exams whose cumulative marks make up the final assessment. Any postponement would lead to a delay in the declaration of results, which is required for enrolment at international universities. “There were numerous suggestions in favour of an assessment via 5th-semester marks and the 6th-semester internal assessment. This was done last year as well when the situation was less severe than it is right now and would lead to a faster declaration of results by the university for the third-year junior members,” the petition by the St Stephen’s students said. The education ministry has been insisting on online exams. The central government and the University Grants Commission have issued guidelines to varsities to defer their offline exams but conduct online tests. Many students at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have also said they are worried about impending online exams as they are not mentally prepared because of the toll the pandemic has taken on them.A UGC official said that since students of several institutions have expressed concerns over online exams, the guidelines could be reviewed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Scramble for shot as doses fall short||Arjun Kumar was wary about getting a Covid-19 vaccine until India’s deadly second wave reached villages near his home in the eastern state of Odisha. Now, like thousands of others scrambling to book a vaccine appointment across the country, his chances of finding one hinge on who different state governments think should be given first priority on limited supplies. “Initially I wasn’t planning to take the vaccination because people said you could die or get a fever. But now there is death all around, I’m scared,” Kumar, 30, a teacher, said over phone from his home in Nadarpur village. Alarmed by the television coverage of the nationwide crisis and reports about deaths closer to home, Kumar has tried in vain to book a vaccine appointment repeatedly over the last two weeks, both in person and using an online registration system. “Getting this vaccine seems like a matter of chance,” said Kumar, who became eligible for the jab on May 1, when India opened vaccination for all adults. India is a major producer of Covid-19 vaccines, but by Monday it had fully vaccinated only 34.8 million people — about 2.5 per cent of the population, government data shows. As supplies lag far behind soaring demand, state authorities are having to make difficult decisions on how to distribute the few doses they have available. In some states, allocation policies are proving controversial. In the state of Chhattisgarh, authorities faced a legal challenge for opting to give top priority to “the poorest of the poor” on the grounds they were the most vulnerable, with limited access to health services or benefits such as sick pay. “In view of the limited supply of vaccines, this was done to ensure equity and social justice,” Priyanka Shukla, director of the National Health Mission in Chhattisgarh, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. After frontline health workers, next in line were low-income and marginalised groups, including indigenous groups, single and widowed women, the homeless and former bonded labourers. But a court rejected the state government’s argument last week following a challenge by a group of residents, and people living above the poverty line will now also be eligible in the first phase. India announced in April that vaccine makers authorised by the Centre would be able to directly sell 50 per cent of their stock to state administrations and private hospitals in an effort to boost the vaccination drive across the country. But data collected from the health departments of five states and collated by the Thomson Reuters Foundation showed that the supply of vaccines was not meeting even half of the demand from health departments. In Maharashtra, one of the states worst affected by the second wave, of the 120 million doses needed to cover the 18 to 44 age group, only about 1.1 million have been received. Officials in the state are considering importing vaccines from overseas to plug the gap. Several other states have made similar announcements. In Chhattisgarh and Assam, only a small fraction of the millions of required doses have arrived. “Exact (delivery) dates are not known. Everything depends on the availability,” said Bijay Panigrahi, in-charge of the immunisation drive in Odisha, which has also received only a small number of the doses it needs. The shortages and disparities in state immunisation policies have triggered demands from rights campaigners for authorities to ensure vulnerable groups get fair access. “Prioritising the marginalised is essential because they inherently have poor health, poor documentation and poor access,” said Edwin, who uses one name and is the trustee of the charity Human Rights Advocacy and Research Foundation (HRF). Migrant workers are among those at risk of discrimination as some states give priority to their own residents, he said. Online registration could also lead to inequalities in vaccine access around the country and between different groups, campaigners said. Many poor Indians do not have biometric identification cards that are often required to access public services, including vaccination registration — allowing those who do to jump the vaccine queue. In some instances, residents from the cities of Pune, Bangalore and Hyderabad have booked slots in rural health centres, according to local media reports. “It’s not fair because the stocks are meant for villagers,” said Sandeep Jathar, a rural development official from Mulshi village in Maharashtra, which has seen an influx of residents from Pune at rural health centres. He said local officials were helping villagers register online to ensure they were not pushed to the back of the line. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Govt silent on UGC request for free vaccination||Higher education regulator University Grants Commission has recommended free vaccination for all students and staff of central varsities at a time normal academic activities have been crippled by the pandemic. The UGC has written to the education ministry suggesting the vaccination drive and improvement of the infrastructure at the health centres on central university campuses. The letter, written two weeks ago, has been forwarded to the health ministry, which is yet to respond, a senior education ministry official said. “The UGC has proposed that all students and university staff be vaccinated for free on priority. The health centres on campuses should be improved so that they can conduct RTPCR tests, administer vaccines and provide basic support to Covid and other patients. Once the university community is vaccinated and the Covid situation improves, the universities can open for normal academic activities,” the official said. The health centres at most universities do not treat Covid patients. For example, the hospital at Visva-Bharati has 50 beds for treating routine patients. There is no facility to conduct RTPCR tests or provide vaccines to university members. However, the Bengal government, on the request of Visva-Bharati, had conducted testing camps on the campus a few times. University sources said campus residents testing positive for Covid were being provided free tele-consultation with doctors and also medicines. “This is a crisis situation. What is required is to utilise all available facilities. Visva-Bharati now has a new hospital building where Covid care should be provided. In other universities too, separate Covid-care facilities should be started by using the existing healthcare infrastructure,” said a faculty member of Visva-Bharati. “The problem is that the central government is always in election mode. As a result, governance has taken the back seat,” the teacher said, adding that campus residents had to queue up at the government hospital outside for tests and treatment. Manish Kumar, a PhD student at Visva-Bharati, said that if all students are vaccinated, physical classes can resume. “Now classes are being conducted online. These classes are more ritualistic in nature. The universities can function better and exams can be held if all students are vaccinated,” Kumar said. Surendra Singh, a PhD student of Delhi University and president of Youth for Social Justice, an organisation fighting against caste-based discrimination at DU, said students belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were the worst sufferers of campuses remaining closed due to the pandemic. “The SC-ST students do not have gadgets (phones and computers) and Internet facilities. They are unable to access the online classes properly. They struggle to appear in online exams. Vaccination is immensely required. Once vaccinated, the students will come back to campuses,” Singh said. Some central institutions such as Banaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University have on-campus medical colleges where Covid care is provided. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Congress seeks vaccine report for public||The Congress on Friday demanded a public report on vaccines, alleging that the Narendra Modi government had ignored suggestions for ramping up production and allowed exports violating the India-First policy. Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said: “There has to be total transparency on vaccines. The government should bring out a white paper, telling the nation how many doses have been manufactured by the two companies — Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — and how many doses were exported and how are vaccines being allocated. We have 12 laboratories that can manufacture vaccines. Why were these capacities not used to enhance production?” Gohil pointed out that countries like the US did not export a single dose till a significant section of their population had been vaccinated while India sent out 6.6 crore doses at the very outset. “It is sad that India stands at the 77th position in the vaccination chart of 100 countries. Some countries have covered their entire population and many have vaccinated over 60 per cent. We have not even covered 7 per cent of our population. This despite the fact that our manufacturing capacity is second to none,” he said. Recalling that the parliamentary standing committee on health and family welfare had in a report to the Rajya Sabha chairman on November 21, 2020, suggested stepping up vaccine production, Gohil claimed that the government had ignored the recommendations. The report, tabled in Parliament on February 20, 2021, had said: “The committee also urges the ministry to devise a plan for the availability of the vaccine. For this to happen, the vaccine production capacity in the country has to be considerably ramped up for making vaccines accessible to its citizens.” The report had further stated: “The committee, therefore, recommends the ministry to collaborate with the Serum Institute of India and other vaccine manufacturers so that vaccines are easily available at an affordable rate to the general public. “The committee calls upon the ministry to subsidise the vaccine cost for the weaker sections of the country, especially in rural and urban slum areas. The ministry should be cautious in its efforts to check black-marketing and shortage of vaccines. The committee also recommends the ministry to administer the vaccines according to WHO’s ‘strategic allocation’ approach or a multi-tiered risk-based approach.” The Congress alleged that the addled strategy and thinking of the government had ended up slowing down the vaccination drive. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The government’s vaccine policy is compounding the problem. Vaccine purchase should be centralised and distribution decentralised. India cannot afford this.” The Congress leader’s comment had been provoked by state governments having to float global tenders to directly deal with vaccine manufacturers instead of the Centre, which is in a better position to negotiate with international market forces. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram referred to the government’s confused approach on the Congress demand for invoking compulsory licensing to expand production. The veteran politician said in a series of tweets: “We have heard of two faces, but this government has three faces. Face 1: India joins South Africa and tells the world that IPR (patent rights) for Covid vaccines must be suspended. “Face 2: On May 9, the government files an affidavit in the Supreme Court claiming that bringing vaccine patents under the statutory regime (that is compulsory licensing) will be ‘counter productive’. “Face 3: On May 13, Niti Aayog member, Dr V.K. Paul, supports the manufacture of Covaxin by other private manufacturers (through compulsory licensing). Do you trust this government to do anything to protect your life and livelihood?” Chidambaram added: “The government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court proves that it wants to protect the monopoly of the two Indian companies manufacturing Covid vaccines. It also proves that the government does not care about the supply-demand gap. The poor have to wait indefinitely to get themselves vaccinated. “Another piece of evidence that the government is anti-poor and pro-corporate: its unwillingness to fix a uniform price for vaccines. The two companies are raking in super profits.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
