16-05-2021||India||AAP leaders behind posters critical of PM Modi: Delhi Police||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Gautam was behind the posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the COVID-19 vaccination drive that surfaced in the Mangolpuri area, the Delhi Police claimed on Sunday, a day after it arrested 25 people for allegedly pasting them on walls across the city amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Gautam is absconding, the police tweeted. “Police while patrolling to enforce lockdown announced by DDMA, created by GNCTD, noticed walls in several areas being defaced by pasting posters. Accused persons on questioning told an AAP member & President of Ward 47, Arvind Gautam was behind it in Mangolpuri. He is absconding,” tweeted the Delhi Police, which comes under the Union Home Ministry. The police alleged that AAP leaders were involved in pasting the posters in other parts of the national capital as well. The police have registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people for allegedly pasting the posters, reading “Modiji humare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)”, in several parts of the city. The FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections, including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, across various districts of the Delhi Police, officials had said. The AAP on Sunday owned up its role behind pasting the posters. “The AAP is behind the posters. Our party workers have been arrested and hundreds are being detained in different parts of the city. We challenge Delhi Police to arrest senior AAP leaders and party MLAs instead of harassing poor people who paste posters for a little money,” said senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. According to the police, an FIR was registered under relevant sections at Mangolpuri police station earlier this week for defacement of wall adjacent to Kanjhawala Road. There was no details of printing press or publisher mentioned on these posters. From a video footage, those who were pasting these posters around 4 am were identified, the police said. The accused persons disclosed during interrogation that Gautam, who is a worker of AAP at Sultanpur Majra, had sent instruction on WhatsApp to one Rahul regarding the subject matter of printing and Rs 9,000 for printing and affixing these poster or hoarding, they said. Rahul (26), a resident of Mangolpuri, made a graphic image for printing and placed the order with Rajesh via email. Rahul runs a graphic designing shop, police said. One Anil Kumar (25), a resident of Sultanpuri, is an e-rickshaw driver from whom the hoardings were recovered, police said. Rajesh Sharma (48), a resident of Mongolpuri, is the owner of Addline printing press. This order was given by Rahul via email to Rajesh. The printer did not mention the name of press in the footnote of the printed material and violated the DDMA guidelines for running press in this lockdown period, police said. The Delhi Police has registered the 25 FIRs across its 13 districts, including Outer, South and West, in the national capital. On Wednesday night in South district, similar posters were found pasted in the area of JJ Colony Khanpur. Thereafter, a case was registered at Neb Sarai Police Station, police said. During investigation, two suspects were seen in CCTV footage carrying the posters or hoarding from a street of JJ Colony Khanpur. From local inquiry, the persons were identified as Santosh and Mayank. From their interrogation it is revealed that one Sanjay Chaudhary (ex-councilor candidate of AAP) was behind the pasting of these posters, a senior police officer said. He had directed his party worker Mayank (42), a resident of Khanpur Extension, to get these posters printed and pasted in the area, police said. In West district, five persons were arrested for similar defacement near Bihari Chowk, Mansarovar Garden. They were identified as auto driver Rakesh Kumar (42), fitter Murari (45), contractor Devender Kumar (51), printing press owner Tilak Raj (47) and one Anil Gulati (61), the police said. During further investigation, it was revealed that it was being done on the directions of Prashant Kumar, a resident of New Moti Nagar. He is an AAP worker associated with party leader Rakesh Joshi, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||2 African nationals held for cheating people on pretext of oxygen cylinders||Two African nationals have been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing them oxygen cylinders, police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Cheema Benneth (42), a native of Nigeria and Jonathan Kojo (44), a resident of Ghana, they said. On May 5, a man told the police that he was in need of an oxygen cylinder for his relative who was suffering from Covid-19 and after finding a phone number on the social media, he contacted the accused who told him to pay Rs 16,000 for an oxygen cylinder and Rs 4,000 as transportation charge, following which the complainant transferred Rs 20,000 to their account, officials said. The accused assured him that the cylinder would reach his address. However, the victim did not receive any cylinder and when he tried to contact the accused, they blocked his number, a senior police officer said. “During investigation, it was found that foreign nationals were involved in the cheating racket spread across India. On Thursday, police apprehended Benneth from Green Park in south Delhi. Based on his disclosure, his associate Kojo was also also nabbed on Saturday,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. Police recovered 163 SIM cards, 19 mobile phones, five laptops, four debit cards and other articles from their possession. During interrogation, Benneth told the police that he along with his associates in India and abroad were cheating people via different modes. After seeing the rising demand for oxygen cylinders in Delhi, they planned to cheat people via this mode. They flashed their mobile numbers on different social media platforms, promising to provide oxygen cylinders to needy people, police said. The accused disclosed that he collected phone numbers of the needy people from the social media and along with his associates started sending massages to them regarding availability of oxygen cylinders, they said. One of his associates in Bangalore provided the bank accounts to receive the cheated money. After withdrawing the money, their share was deposited in their respective bank accounts. Their other associates in Africa also assisted in this fraud, police said. Police found that they were using more than 20 bank accounts for cheating and they have duped more than 1,000 people across India of over Rs 2 crore, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Centre: Dumping of corpses in Ganga “most undesirable and alarming”||The Centre directed Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Sunday to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga and its tributaries, and focus on their safe disposal and a dignified cremation after corpses were seen floating in these rivers following a spurt in the number of coronavirus cases. At a review meeting conducted on May 15-16, the Centre said dumping of dead bodies and partially burnt or decomposed corpses in the Ganga and its tributaries has recently been reported, which is “most undesirable and alarming”. “Namami Gange directs states to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga and focus on their safe disposal and providing support for ensuring dignified cremation,” the Jal Shakti Ministry said. The state pollution control boards were directed to monitor the water quality more frequently in consultations with the health departments. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was assigned the task of overall monitoring, providing guidance to the state pollution control boards and taking up advanced analysis in the matter. Support for cremation needs to be given top priority. Effective implementation of the government orders needs to be ensured. No loss of time should take place in implementation, the ministry said. An advisory was issued by Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga, to the district magistrates, who are also the chairpersons of the district Ganga committees, on May 11. This was followed up by a letter the next day to the chief secretaries to prevent the dumping of dead bodies in the river and ensure enforcement of the government guidelines on the cremation of COVID-19 victims. The letter also advised the states to provide financial assistance as well as regulate the rates for the cremation or burial process. On May 15, the steps taken in this regard in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were reviewed at a meeting chaired Pankaj Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, and further action points were decided. Highlighting the instructions already given, Kumar had called for expeditious action and underscored the need to give equal attention to such incidents in urban and rural areas along the Ganga and other rivers. “Stopping of dumping of dead bodies as well as their safe disposal and protection of water quality have to be ensured on a war footing. After knowing the progress from the states, the CWC (Central Water Commission), the CPCB and the state pollution control boards would also be giving their feedback and action plans,” he had said. Mishra stated that the situation is being monitored and follow-up action is being taken in several districts such as Unnao, Kanpur rural, Ghazipur and Balia in Uttar Pradesh and Buxar and Saran in Bihar. However, some cases have also been reported from other districts. He asked the state missions to keep an eye on the situation. Mishra emphasised the need to strengthen enforcement, maintain vigil and take proactive action to facilitate and support the families for the cremation of the bodies and asked the state missions to specifically report on this. “If needed, the project directors can assess and also give support to the district Ganga committees for this out of the NMCG funds available with them, while keeping the NMCG informed,” he said. Rajnish Dubey, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development, and Anurag Shrivastav, Principal Secretary, Jal Shakti and Project Director, State Ganga Mission, represented Uttar Pradesh in the meeting. Shrivastava said all the district magistrates have been alerted about the issue and patrolling is being carried out to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga. He also informed that 13 crematoria under Namami Gange, in addition to the existing ones, have been made available for the cremation of dead bodies. It was informed that orders have been issued for financial support for cremations in urban areas. Dubey said similar orders for a financial support of Rs 5,000 have been issued by the Panchayati Raj department for rural areas and the SDRF and other forces have also been asked to carry out patrolling. Anand Kishore, Principal Secretary, Urban Development and Project Director, State Ganga Mission, Government of Bihar, informed that it has been decided that the cremation or burial expenses of those dying due to Covid-19 will be borne by the state government. He added that even if the deceased did not have a Covid-positive report but showed symptoms of the disease, the family will be offered this support. He also said patrolling is being done to prevent further dumping of dead bodies in the river, especially in districts like Buxar and Saran (Chhapra). CWC Chairman S K Halder informed that they are monitoring the flow and the water quality of the river through their stations and will further increase the frequency. CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava said the board has forewarned all water monitoring stations along the Ganga and her tributaries. The periodicity of testing the water quality has also been increased. Debashree Mukherjee, Additional Secretary with the Jal Shakti Ministry, stated that besides an urgent assessment of the risks to the riverside communities by the pollution control boards, there is a need to raise awareness on the dos and don'ts as regards the use of river water and to prevent such incidents of dumping of bodies in the river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Centre asks states to keep ration shops open all days for longer hours ||The Centre on Sunday asked the state governments to keep ration shops, also called fair price shops, open for a longer duration and on all days to ensure timely and safe distribution of both subsidised and free foodgrains to the poor. An advisory in this regard has been issued by the Union Food Ministry following representations that during the present lockdown in some states/UTs, ration shops' timings have been curtailed due to which the intended beneficiaries might not be getting adequate time to lift their entitled share of foodgrains. "In view of ongoing lockdown in some States/UTs, that may curtail the functioning hours of Fair Price Shop (FPS), an advisory has been issued on 15th May, 2021...to keep the FPSs open, preferably on all days of the month," the ministry said in a statement. The Centre is distributing highly monthly subsidised foodgrains of 5 kg per person at Rs 1-3 per kg via ration shops to over 80 crore poor under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Over and above this, additional 5kg of free grains are being distributed to the same beneficiaries under the PMGKAY (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana) scheme for two months -- May-June in order to minimise economic hardships being faced by the NFSA beneficiaries during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the advisory, the Centre has asked states to keep the ration shops open for distribution of foodgrains under the NFSA as well as PMGKAY scheme in a staggered manner throughout the day, maintaining proper social distancing and adhering to all Covid-19 protocols, it said. To facilitate this, states have been requested to ensure that FPSs are exempted from the restricted hours of opening of regular markets as foodgrains are covered under essential items, it added. Further, the Centre has asked states to take necessary steps for timely distribution of foodgrains at their FPSs without causing hardships to the beneficiaries, and to give wide publicity to the measures undertaken in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Covaxin effective against India, UK strains of coronavirus, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Sunday said its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' has been found to be effective against coronavirus strains found in India and the UK. Citing a study published in peer-reviewed medical journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, the Hyderabad-based vaccine major noted that vaccination with Covaxin produced neutralising titres against all key emerging variants tested, including B.1.617 and B.1.1.7, first identified in India and the UK, respectively. The study was conducted in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology and Indian Council of Medical Research, it added. "Covaxin gets international recognition yet again, by scientific research data published demonstrating protection against the new variants. Yet another feather in its cap," Bharat Biotech co-founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. She also tagged PMO India, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, among others, in the tweet. The study found a modest reduction in neutralisation by a factor of 1.95 against B.1.617 variant compared to vaccine variant D614G, Bharat Biotech noted. Despite this reduction, neutralising titre levels with B.1.617 remain above levels expected to be protective, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||We dare you Prime Minister, arrest us: Congress leaders slam govt||Congress leaders on Sunday slammed the police action against some people for allegedly putting up posters critical of the prime minister and dared the government to arrest them for raising questions on the export of Covid vaccines. Led by Rahul Gandhi, Congress leaders changed their profile pictures on Twitter with the poster asking why Covid vaccines were sent abroad. The Opposition party said tough questions will be asked from the prime minister if people don't get vaccines, medicines and oxygen. "Arrest me too," said Gandhi in a tweet while sharing a picture of the poster "Modi ji, why did you send our children's vaccines abroad". The challenge was posed after a few people were arrested by Delhi police for putting up posters in the national capital on the vaccine issue. The Delhi Police also registered a number of FIRs and arrested people for pasting posters critical of the prime minister. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh dared the prime minister and home minister to arrest him, saying he was putting up such posters on his compound wall. "Putting up critical posters against PM is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is the Delhi Police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic," he asked. "I am putting up posters on my compound wall tomorrow. Come get me," Ramesh dared. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a press conference that questions will be asked from the prime minister if people don't get vaccines, medicines and oxygen they desperately need to fight Covid. "I dare you to arrest me. Where is my vaccine, where is my oxygen? We will continue to ask you questions," he said while alleging that people are being "arrested for asking questions". Khera said most of the deaths could have been avoided and people are dying not because of COVID, but due to the mismanagement in handling the pandemic. He alleged that the government had created man-made shortages and there was chaos all around. "The Government of India did not manage the crisis well," he said. The Congress leader alleged that when it came to negotiating with vaccine manufacturers or putting in place the vaccine policy, everything was "centralised and individualised". "PM Modi wanted to be known as a vaccine guru, but now the entire world and every Indian is asking tough questions," he said. "You can't have centralised decision-making and decentralised responsibility," he said. "What we witnessed is image management, which is the most unfortunate aspect of this government. It is fatal for the country," he felt. On the Centre issuing guidelines in rural areas, Khera said they have come much after the virus has already spread in villages. "We also get to know the under-preparedness of the government, as the entire preparedness was vested with the Centre under NDMA," he said. He said India has successfully implemented immunisation drives in the past and diseases like polio have been eradicated. "India has achieved immunisation in the past, provided there is a political will. The political will is not there under PM Modi," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Second batch of Sputnik V lands in Hyderabad||As many as 60,000 doses of the second batch of Russia's COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V on Sunday landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here, Dr Reddy's Laboratories said on Sunday. "Pleased to share that the consignment that arrived today in Hyderabad contains 60,000 doses of the second dose component of the #SputnikV vaccine. Samples from the consignment will be sent for release to the Central Drugs Laboratory," the drug maker tweeted. Dr Reddy's Laboratories on May 14 soft launched imported COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V vaccine which is priced at Rs 948, with five per cent GST per dose (retail price). "Given the recent launch of the Russian vaccine in the Indian vaccination campaign, this second delivery has become very timely. The efficacy of the #SputnikV is well-known in the world," Nikolay Kudashev Russian Ambassador to India tweeted. The first consignment of 1.50 lakh doses of Sputnik V vaccine from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory. The Indian drug-maker had earlier said these consignments will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up the supply chain for the larger vaccination programme rollout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Centre’s new rules to tackle Covid in rural, peri-urban areas||As rural areas see a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday issued new guidelines for containment of the virus advising that peri-urban and rural areas plan a minimum 30-bedded Covid Care Centre for asymptomatic cases with comorbidities or mild cases where home isolation is not feasible. Provision of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits should be made at all public health facilities including Sub-centres or Health and Wellness Centres and Primary Health Centres, the Union Health Ministry said. Noting that besides urban areas reporting a large number of cases, a gradual ingress is now being seen in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas as well, the ministry released the 'SOP on Covid-19 Containment and Management in Peri-urban, Rural & Tribal areas' to enable communities strengthen primary level healthcare infrastructure at all levels to intensify Covid-19 response. It said Covid Care Centres (CCC) can admit a suspect or confirmed case but should have separate areas for suspected and confirmed cases with preferably separate entry and exit for each. "Suspect and confirmed cases should not be allowed to mix under any circumstances," the SOP said. According to the SOP, in every village, active surveillance should be done for influenza-like illness/ severe acute respiratory infections(ILI/SARI) periodically by ASHA with help of Village Health Sanitation and Nutrition Committee (VHSNC). Symptomatic cases can be triaged at village level by tele-consultation with Community Health Officer (CHO), and cases with comorbidity or low oxygen saturation should be sent to higher centres. Identified suspected Covid cases should link for testing to health facilities either through Covid-19 rapid antigen testing or by referral of samples to nearest Covid-19 testing laboratory, in accordance with ICMR guidelines. CHOs and ANMs should be trained in performing Rapid Antigen Testing. Provision of RAT kits should be made at all public health facilities including Sub-centres, Health and Wellness Centres and Primary Health Centres, the document said. Depending upon the intensity of surge and number of cases, as far as feasible, contact tracing should be done as per Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme's (IDSP's) guidelines, it stated. "Nearly 80-85 per cent Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic/ mildly symptomatic. These patients do not require hospitalisation and may be managed at home or in Covid care isolation facilities," the SOP stated. As monitoring of oxygen saturation is important for monitoring of Covid patients, it is desirable for each village to have an adequate number of pulse oximeters and thermometers. The SOP recommended developing a system of providing pulse oximeters and thermometers on loan to families with a confirmed case of Covid through ASHA/ Anganwadi workers and village-level volunteers. Pulse oximeters and thermometers should be sanitised after each use with cotton or cloth soaked in alcohol-based sanitiser. Follow-ups for patients undergoing isolation or quarantine could be done through household visits by a frontline worker/ volunteer/ teacher duly following required infection prevention practices including use of medical mask and other appropriate precautions. "Home Isolation kit shall be provided to all such cases which should include required medicines such as Paracetamol 500 mg, Tab. Ivermectin, cough syrup, multivitamins (as prescribed by the treating doctor) besides a detailed pamphlet indicating precautions to be taken, medication details, monitoring proforma for patient condition during home isolation, contact details in case of any major symptoms or deterioration of health condition and the discharge criteria," the SOP stated. The health infrastructure planned for peri urban, rural and tribal areas shall be aligned to the already mentioned 3-tier structure -- Covid Care Centre (CCC) to manage mild or asymptomatic cases, Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) to manage moderate cases and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) to manage severe cases, according to the document. The CCCs are makeshift facilities under the supervision of nearest PHC/CHC and may be set up in schools, community halls, marriage halls, panchayat buildings in close proximity of hospitals or healthcare facilities, or tentage facilities in panchayat land, school ground, etc. These CCCs should be mapped to one or more Dedicated Covid Health Centres and at least one Dedicated Covid Hospital for referral purposes. Such Covid care centres should also have a Basic Life Support Ambulance (BLSA) networked among such CCCs equipped with sufficient oxygen support on 24x7 basis, for ensuring safe transport of patients to dedicated higher facilities if the symptoms progress from mild to moderate or severe. Primary Health Centres or Community Health Centres and Sub District Hospitals in these areas shall be the Dedicated Covid Health Centre for management of Covid-19. The facility may plan a minimum of 30 bedded DCHC. District should be prepared to increase DCHC beds as per the case trajectory and expected surge of cases, the document stated. These centres shall offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate (Patient breathless; Respiratory Rate more than 24 per minute; Saturation between 90 to <94% on room air). District hospitals or other identified private hospitals or a block of these hospitals shall be converted as dedicated Covid Hospitals. In addition, sub-district or block level hospitals fulfilling the requirements may also be designated as dedicated Covid hospitals for the identified CCC and DHCC in their catchment area. The upgradation in health facilities shall be undertaken based on case trajectory or the surge in cases, the SOP stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended by another week amid dip in cases||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown by one more week in the national capital to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown imposed on April 19 has been extended for the fourth time till May 24 morning. It was scheduled to end at 5 am tomorrow. The Covid-19 situation has been improving in Delhi with the number of cases and positivity rate going down steadily in the past few days. The chief minister said the lockdown is being extended as the gains made so far in combating the coronavirus cannot be lost due to relaxations now. "We have been witnessing good recovery following the lockdown. Coronavirus cases have been on a decline," ndtv.com quoted Kejriwal as saying. "We don't want to lose the gain that we have made in the last few days. We are extending the lockdown for one more week. Instead of tomorrow, lockdown is extended till next Monday, 5 am in Delhi," he added. The national capital recorded 6,430 new Covid-19 cases and 337 fatalities on Saturday while the positivity rate dipped to 11.32 per cent. The number of active cases decreased to 66,295 on Saturday from 71,794 a day before, as per the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 42,484 from 45,099 on Friday while the number of containment zones mounted to 57,179 from 56,470 a day before, the bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||How many deaths will it take ’til we know too many people have died of Covid?||Long line-ups for space to cremate loved ones, crematoriums operating 24/7, parking lots turned into cremation grounds, bodies floating down the Ganges. The evidence is overwhelming that the real death toll from the pandemic sweeping India is far higher than official numbers. It’s the question on everyone’s lips: What’s the real death toll of the pandemic that’s sweeping India? Now, we may have confirmation that in some parts of the country it’s far greater than our worst fears. Gujarat issued more than double the death certificates between March 1 and May 10 than during the same period last year according to an investigative report by regional newspaper Divya Bhaskar, leading to charges that the state is vastly under-counting its Covid-19 deaths. The state issued 1.23 lakh death certificates compared to 58,000 during the same 71-day period last year. Interestingly, the Gujarat government’s official figures show that only 4,218 people died from Covid-19 during the March 1-May 10 period. However, 65,000 more death certificates than the previous year were issued during the period. On Saturday evening, Opposition leader P. Chidambaram said his party had independently cross-checked the Divya Bhaskar stories and he also called on all states to release figures on the number of death certificates issued. “We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true number of new infections and Covid-related deaths,” said Chidambaram. The Gujarat Government, caught on the backfoot by the allegations of a large-scale cover-up of mortalities, now says the higher number of death certificates issued this year may be due to an operating glitch in its new online system. Gujarat’s state home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja told a news conference that: “Death certificates are issued for various reasons, so we cannot rule out the possibility of more than one registration for a person sometimes." Going city-by-city, Divya Bhaskar found that in Rajkot, 10,878 death certificates were issued in the 71 days from March 1-May 10. That compared with 2,583 death certificates issued during the same period last year. Rajkot city’s official data shows 288 people died from Covid-19 during that period. Similarly, Ahmedabad city issued 13,593 death certificates from March 1-May 10 this year compared to 7,786 during the same period last year. Government data lists 2,126 people as having died from Covid-19 during the period. The same pattern is repeated across the state with Vadodara city issuing 7,722 death certificates compared to 2,373 during the 71-day March 1-May 10 period last year. Officially, government figures show 189 Covid-19 deaths in the city during the period. And in Surat, 8,851 death certificates were issued compared to 2,769 during the same time last year. Gujarat government data indicates that 1,074 people died of Covid-19 during the March 1-May 10 period. The Divya Bhaskar investigation comes after months of allegations that Gujarat has been under-counting both the number of cases and the Covid-19 deaths by a huge margin. It could indicate that the number of Covid-19 deaths are up to 15 times more than indicated by the state’s figures. Global toll 7m to 12m, says The Economist If that’s true, it would put Gujarat amongst the worst under-counting offenders at a global level. The Economist magazine reckons that globally between 7.1 million and 12.7 million people have died from Covid-19. It says under-counting ranges from 1.7 per cent in developed countries in Europe and the US to 14 times the official number in Sub-Saharan Africa. The official global death toll is 3.3 million. In Asia, The Economist reckoned there could have been between 2.4 million and 7.1 million excess deaths since the pandemic began. Trying to work out the death rates both in India and elsewhere has become a global preoccupation. The direst forecasts come from the Washington-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation which reckons that by end-July 1.01 million Indians will have died after suffering from Covid-19. More conservatively, an Indian Institute of Sciences model estimated 404,000 deaths by early June. Other experts concur that the actual fatality figures must be much higher than the official ones. Says Professor Ashish Jha, dean at the Brown University of Public Health in Rhode Island: “India reports 400,000+ cases and 4,000+ deaths a day. A sustained level of horribleness. And it’s not correct. The true number is surely closer to 25,000 deaths. There are lots of simple ways to estimate but here’s a simple one. Look at the crematoriums.” ‘Can’t ignore the dead’ Jha argues that about 27,000 Indians die daily during normal times. “Crematoriums handle that level of deaths every day. An additional 4,000 deaths won’t knock them off their feet. Crematoriums across the country reporting 2-4x times normal business.” He adds: “So, best estimate. 55K to 80K people dying daily. If you assume baseline deaths of 25-30k. Covid likely causing additional 25K to 50K deaths daily.” Jha goes on to point out: “India can’t be experiencing 4k deaths a day. If it were. it would barely be a blip in the background. There’s an old saying in global health. ‘You can ignore, fail to test for, or undercount whatever disease you want. But you can’t ignore the dead.’ ” In the same vein, another medical expert notes: “India has shown a consistent drop in mortality. About 27,000 deaths daily. If there are 4,000 more people dying every day how come crematoria and graveyards are so overloaded." In Uttar Pradesh, too, most experts and on-the-ground journalists reckon under-counting must be on a massive scale, as in Gujarat. There have been devastating scenes of bodies floating down the Ganga and crematoriums where huge pyres are burning late into the night. Says Virologist Shahid Jameel: “If we are getting only 4,000 daily Covid deaths, that is just 15 per cent more. Would we see the cremation and burial scenes that we are witnessing with just a 15 per cent increase? It has to go up by at least 50 per cent, possibly 100 per cent to reach this situation.” UP panchayat polls Villagers in Uttar Pradesh insist that deaths have soared ever since the panchayat elections in mid-April. The panchayat elections are of supreme importance in rural India because panchayat officials get to control the purse strings of numerous schemes. Also, in smaller villages, every vote counts, so people of all ages are dragged out to vote. One Bangalore techie originally from Uttar Pradesh tells of how his grandmother was pulled out of the house to vote and later caught Covid-19 and died. Other villagers too have confirmed that the pandemic spiralled out of control after the panchayat elections. Official statistics show that daily deaths peaked in Uttar Pradesh at 373 on May 7. This is widely considered to be a gross underestimate. Virologist Jameel tells about a relative whose test results were delayed for several days and finally came back only after the patient had died. Since the test results hadn’t come in, the death wasn’t classified as due to Covid. Also, very frequently, many people who have tested positive but who died following a cardiac arrest or other illnesses that may have been triggered by being infected by the coronavirus are not classified as Covid deaths. Gujarat testing very few people The Gujarat government has been facing charges of testing very few people from the start of the pandemic and had appeared to defend itself against this charge by saying it did not wish to trigger panic. Gujarat’s huge number of deaths could be partly due to the fact that medical treatment for other illnesses, not just Covid, has been hard to access in the last year. Says Dr Arun N. Madhavan, who has been tracking Covid-19 deaths during the last year: “Lots of deaths may not be Covid-related but because of the difficulty getting hospital beds” for other illnesses. Madhavan notes that in Gujarat, there’s a big urban-rural divide and public health is generally very poor. Madhavan suggests conducting door-to-door surveys in selected districts to establish the exact number of Covid-1 deaths. Chidambaram has also suggested that that the National Human Rights Commission should call for death certificates from all states so that accurate fatality figures could be worked out. Even in Kerala, which had kept a tight hold on its fatalities, deaths rose to 97 on Friday. Kerala on Saturday announced what it termed a “triple lockdown” in four districts where stringent restrictions have been introduced. Through most of the pandemic Kerala has been able to keep its deaths at below 30 per day. But new infection rates have climbed in recent weeks and that is finally pushing up the death toll. Analysts looking at Kerala insist that the state could be under-counting but not by huge amounts. Similarly, in Maharashtra the pandemic was simmering all through last year. The state has around 79,000 fatalities but it appears to have made fewer efforts to conceal its problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening, says IMD||The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae is likely to intensify during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening, the IMD said. It would cross the state's coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district by early Tuesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin on Sunday. The IMD has also issued a yellow alert for the coasts of Gujarat and Diu and Daman. Tidal waves are likely to inundate several coastal districts during the landfall, it said. "The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae over the east-central Arabian Sea moved nearly northwards with a speed of about 11 kmph during the past six hours," the bulletin said. Around 5.30 am on Sunday, the cyclone lay centred about 130 km west-southwest of Panjim-Goa, 450 km south of Mumbai, 700 km south-southeast of Veraval (Gujarat) and 840 km southeast of Karachi (Pakistan), it said. "It is very likely to intensify during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross the state coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around May 18 early morning," the IMD said. With the cyclone intensifying, the wind speed along and off Gujarat coasts in Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Amreli districts will reach 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph by Tuesday morning. It will reach a speed of 120-150 kmph gusting to 165 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar districts during the same period, the IMD said. "Gale winds with speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch, southern parts of Ahmedabad, and Anand districts, as well as Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman (Union Territories) from May 17 midnight till Tuesday morning," it said. The sea conditions will become "very rough to high" along and off the south Gujarat coast from Monday morning, and "very high to phenomenal" from Monday midnight. A tidal wave of about 3 metres, 1-2.5 metres above the astronomical tide, is likely to inundate several coastal areas of the state during the time of the landfall, it said. By Sunday afternoon, the coastal areas of the Saurashtra region will start getting light to moderate rainfall, with heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch and Diu on Monday, and extremely heavy rainfalls at isolated places on Tuesday. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea, the state government said, adding that 107 out of the 149 fishing boats which were out into the waters returned to the coast by Sunday morning. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held a high-level meeting on Saturday and said the state government was fully prepared, while the administrations of districts likely to be affected by the cyclonic storm have been alerted. The government was working with a "zero casualty" approach, Rupani said. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed along the south Gujarat and Saurashtra coast. Rupani said hospitals in coastal areas have been instructed to ensure that treatment of critical Covid-19 patients is not disrupted in case of a power outage or other adverse events. All patients who are on oxygen or ventilator should be shifted to Covid-19 hospitals in nearby districts if needed, he said. Ambulances with advanced life support systems and ICU ambulances should be sent from other parts of Gujarat to Jamnagar, Rajkot, Kutch and Junagadh, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Gusty winds, heavy rains lash several parts of Goa as Tauktae approaches||Gusty winds and heavy rains lashed several parts of Goa on Sunday morning due to cyclonic storm Tauktae, uprooting electric poles and affecting power supply in many parts of the coastal state, officials said. No casualty was reported so far, they said. Power supply in majority of areas of Goa was disrupted as several electric poles got uprooted due to the high speed winds, state Power Minister Nilesh Cabral told PTI. "Hundreds of electric poles are broken and scores of power conductors have snapped. Many high tension 33 KV feeders are down due to the falling of trees. Even the 220 KV lines bringing power to Goa from neighbouring Maharashtra have been damaged," he said. The electricity department deployed its full force for the restoration work, but it was getting hampered due to the strong winds, he said. The state Fire and Emergency Services control room was flooded with hundreds of calls from locals about falling of trees and blocked roads, its director Ashok Menon said. "Our force has been working since last night to clear the roads and remove trees which have fallen on the power lines," Menon said. No casualty was reported so far, he added. At the Cacra village in Bambolim near state capital Panaji, fishermen were seen rushing back from the sea with their canoes as gusty winds hit the coast. Local fisherman Sanjay Pereira claimed this was the worst cyclone since 1994. "The water level in the sea has increased and it is expected to rise further by afternoon. All the fishermen are on alert to ensure their canoes are not pulled into the waters by strong currents," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Congress MP Rajeev Satav dies days after recovering from Covid-19||Congress MP Rajeev Satav died at a private hospital in Pune on Sunday, days after recovering from the coronavirus infection, hospital sources said. He was 46. Satav was on ventilator support at the hospital after his health deteriorated. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. He was later diagnosed with a new viral infection and was in a critical condition, they said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled his demise and said it is a big loss to him. "I'm very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress. It's a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family," he tweeted. Satav, who hailed from Maharashtra, was considered to be close to the former Congress chief. He was in-charge of the party's affairs in Gujarat, where the Congress had put up a spirited fight in the last assembly elections. Condolences poured in from various quarters. "We are deeply saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP and compatriot, Shri Rajeev Satav. His unwavering dedication towards the nation and the party carried out with pure simplicity will be greatly missed. Our condolences to his family, friends and followers. May he rest in peace," the Congress tweeted from its official handle. All India Congress Committee general secretary K C Venugopal said the Congress has lost its frontline warrior, Congress Working Committee member, MP and a most promising young leader. "I am devastated by the irreparable loss. The party will forever miss his indelible dedication, connect and immense popularity," he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he has been rendered speechless due to the loss. "Today I lost a fellow who took the first step of public life with me in the Youth Congress and walked along till today...We will always remember Rajeev Satav's simplicity, ever smiling, connected to the grassroots, loyalty and friendship. Good bye my friend. Keep shining, wherever you are," he tweeted. Party leader Jairam Ramesh said, "My young colleague Rajeev Satav has passed away from Covid-19 complications. He had been president, Youth Congress, as well as MP in both Houses. He was a forceful speaker and was always well prepared. A thorough organisation man, he was integral to the Congress' revival. Tragic!". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "In Rajiv Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress and devoted to the people of India." "I have no words, just prayers for his young wife and children. May they have the strength to carry on without him," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||India logs 3.11 lakh fresh covid cases, over 4,000 deaths||India recorded 3.11 lakh fresh cases of coronavirus in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 infections to 2,46,84,077, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. A total of 3,11,170 new cases were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 2,70,284 with 4,077 daily fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases have reduced to 36,18,458 comprising 14.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 84.25 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,07,95,335, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,48,50,143 samples have been tested up to May 15 with 18,32,950 samples being tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi police arrest 15 people for vaccine query ||Delhi police have arrested 15 people on the charge of pasting posters that asked questions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the floundering vaccination drive, officials said on Saturday. The posters read: “Modiji humare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi, why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)?” They had been put up in several parts of the city, the officials said. The police received information about them on Thursday, following which senior officers of the districts were alerted. Based on further complaints, as many as 17 FIRs were registered in various districts under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, the officials said. These sections entail a maximum punishment of a year’s jail and/or a fine of up to Rs 50,000. A senior police officer said: “More FIRs are likely to be registered if further complaints are received. An investigation is underway to ascertain on whose behalf these posters were put up across the city, and accordingly further action will be taken.” The Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, said three FIRs had been registered in northeast Delhi and two persons arrested from there. Three FIRs were registered in west Delhi and another three in outer Delhi, they added. Two FIRs were registered in central Delhi and four people were arrested. Two FIRs were registered at Rohini and two persons were arrested, while one FIR was registered in east Delhi and four people were arrested. One FIR was registered at Dwarka with two arrests made. One FIR was registered in north Delhi and one person was arrested. One of the accused has claimed he was given Rs 500 to paste the posters, the police said. Another case was registered in Shahdara where the police have studied CCTV footage and are trying to arrest a person seen in the video pasting posters, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Congress blames Centre for suppressing actual death tolls, seeks judicial probe||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the Centre, in conjunction with some state governments, was suppressing the actual Covid death tolls that were several times higher than the official figures, and demanded a judicial probe. A joint statement from P. Chidambaram and Shaktisinh Gohil described the alleged fudging as a “grave misdeed” and “national shame” and cited specific numbers to suggest that BJP-ruled Gujarat had heavily manipulated Covid death figures. “On May 14, Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati-language newspaper, published a news story that sent shock waves throughout Gujarat and the country,” the statement said. “The thrust of the story was that during the period March 1 to May 10 of this year (2021), Gujarat issued about 123,000 death certificates as against about 58,000 death certificates issued during the same period last year (2020). The increase was an alarming number of about 65,000 death certificates.” The statement added: “This increase cannot be explained as a natural annual increase in the number of deaths. It can only be attributed to a pandemic or any other natural disaster. We have independently verified the two numbers referred to above for the period of 71 days. We have collected the numbers from 33 districts. “The sum of the numbers of the death certificates nearly tallies with the numbers published by Divya Bhaskar: 123,873 in 2021 vs 58,068 in 2020. During the period March 1, 2021, to May 10, 2021, the government of Gujarat has officially admitted to only 4,218 Covid-related deaths.” The Congress sought an explanation of the difference between the official Covid death figure and the increase in death certificates. “Our suspicions are confirmed by the fact that hundreds of unidentified bodies have been found floating on the River Ganga and nearly 2,000 unidentified bodies have been found buried (in) the sand along the River Ganga,” the statement said. “We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true numbers of new infections and Covid-related deaths. If our suspicions are true, this is a grave misdeed apart from being a national shame and a national tragedy.” At a joint news conference, Gohil said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should muster the courage to order a judicial probe by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge. Chidambaram said: “The National Human Rights Commission must ask every state to submit the number of death certificates issued in 2020 and 2021. Gujarat has recorded 65,000 more deaths and the situation will be more or less similar in all the states. “The Congress state units should also write to all the chief ministers seeking the number of deaths and (that of) death certificates issued during this period. These statements can be sent to the lawyers who are fighting Covid-related cases in the Supreme Court.” Chidambaram sought the media’s help in ascertaining the correct numbers and congratulated Divya Bhaskar. He asked doctors and scientists to speak the truth instead of playing the government’s game on the recommended gap between the two vaccine doses. He cited how Britain had reduced the gap for the AstraZeneca vaccine from 12 to 8 weeks while India had widened it from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. Chidambaram said: “The government is trying to fool the people of the country. We don’t have the vaccines. Can the government tell us which international firm has assured us (that it will) supply vaccines? Have we finalised the contract, placed the order?” Asked about the Karnataka Congress unit’s declaration that it would buy vaccines worth Rs 100 crore to give it free to people aged between 18 and 45, he said: “That is just a gesture, signalling our intent to help. There must be somebody willing to give vaccines.” Chidambaram described as “very very disappointing” the refusal by the presiding officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to allow virtual meetings of parliamentary committees on the ground of the confidentiality of the proceedings. “The world over, parliaments are meeting. What is the secrecy they are talking about? We are going to discuss the pandemic, not defence secrets or nuclear policy. The pandemic should be discussed on public platforms,” he said. Gohil added: “Modi doesn’t want his failures to be debated. That’s the Gujarat model. He didn’t allow the Assembly to function in Gujarat. The same thing is happening here now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Assembly elections 2021: BJP in tatters in Kerala ||If the Congress in Kerala is in disarray after its dismal performance in the Assembly elections, the BJP is in tatters. The Hindutva party, or at least its state leadership, had high hopes in the southern state but ended up surrendering the lone seat it had won in 2016. Even Ayyappa, the reigning deity at Sabarimala, did not come to the aid of the party. All its calculations went wrong. It expected the Left Front to retain power but not with such a huge majority. Nor did the party foresee such a downfall for the Congress-led United Democratic Front. The BJP had expected at least half a dozen of its star candidates to enter the Assembly this time. It had thus hoped to make an impact within and outside the House and gain the upper hand in the state by diminishing the Congress step by step. Instead, the party that rules the country found itself in the political gutters in Kerala. The state BJP will take a long time to recover from this terrible fiasco. What went wrong? Some blame overconfidence, others say Kerala’s soil is not fertile for the lotus. The most popular theory is that this time the RSS decided to teach the BJP a lesson. For quite some time, the two organisations have not been on good terms when it comes to matters Kerala. This had begun in 2018 when then BJP president Amit Shah summarily packed off the then state president, Kummanam Rajasekharan, a hardcore RSS man, to Mizoram as governor. Even Rajasekharan, who was entrusted with retaining Nemom, the lone seat the party won in 2016, lost this time. Whatever the reasons for the setback, there is discontent brewing within the leadership. As with the Congress, the problems within the BJP cannot be solved through cosmetic changes here and there. The current state president and firebrand leader who spearheaded the Sabarimala agitation, K. Surendran, has offered to resign after losing from both the constituencies he contested. But the central leadership, which seems to be busy analysing its defeat in Bengal, has not yet found time to sort things out in Kerala. The southern state is anyway no longer on the radar of the BJP leadership in Delhi. Still, at some point the central leadership has to step in and put an end to the bitter rivalry among its state leaders. The sooner the better for the party. But what had been more damaging for the BJP in Kerala were the charges of “vote trading” raised by the CPM. A day after the results, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had accused the Congress of trading votes with the BJP to ensure more seats. “The poll results have shown that the UDF has been dealt a massive drubbing. But what we saw even during counting day, May 2, was that they were extremely confident of winning the elections,” Vijayan said at a media briefing. “This sort of confidence must have stemmed from the vote trading they had engaged in with the BJP.” Vijayan attributed UDF victories in 10 seats to this “pact” with the BJP and alleged that if such a deal had not taken place the Congress-led front’s defeat would have been starker. While the Congress has denied the charge, there has only been a muted response from the BJP accusing the CPM of “fixing” votes to defeat its candidates — an example being the defeat of Metro Man E. Sreedharan from Palakkad. The BJP, which had earned 10.5 per cent of the votes in the 2014 parliamentary elections, had improved to 14.21 per cent in the 2015 local body elections. According to Election Commission data, the party this time polled 2,354,468 votes, which is 11.3 per cent of the total votes cast in the 115 constituencies where it fielded its own candidates. This figure is 0.77 percentage points higher than the BJP’s vote share of 10.53 per cent in the 2016 Assembly elections. However, the NDA’s overall vote share fell by about two percentage points in the 2021 Assembly elections. This was because of the pathetic performance of its ally BDJS, the backward Ezhava outfit floated before the 2016 Assembly polls. The BDJS could garner just over 1 per cent of the total votes polled this time, compared to 3.93 per cent in 2016. Together, the BJP and the BDJS had 14.46 per cent of the vote share in 2016, which has fallen to 12.4 per cent this time. Clearly the Ezhavas this time went back to the CPM, which they have traditionally supported. Unbelievably, while the BDJS did not get a single vote in 319 booths, in another 493 booths it got just one vote each. What led to such a slump for the BJP? Sreedharan had claimed the party would come to power with a minimum of 70 of the 140 seats. Surendran had claimed the party needed only 35 seats and would “acquire” the rest from other sources, meaning the buying of MLAs. The BJP had apparently pumped more than Rs 250 crore into this election. While old and ailing leaders like Vijayan and the Congress’s Oommen Chandy trudged across the state by road, Surendran hopped from one constituency to another in a chopper. Perhaps the biggest mistake the party made in Kerala was to bring Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath to inaugurate the NDA’s election campaign in the state. Guess what he spoke about: women’s security and “love jihad”. This was to an audience with cent per cent literacy. Even a school-going girl in Kerala knows what sort of security her sisters get in the Hindi heartland. Did the leaders of the BJP expect their mothers to vote for the party? If so, they were totally out of tune with reality. It’s time the party wakes up and sheds its Hindutva ideology if it wants the lotus to bloom in Kerala’s fertile backwaters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha threatens to open front against Punjab government||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which is spearheading the farmers’ movement across the country against the three contentious farm laws — on Saturday threatened to open a front against the Punjab government if it does not increase the minimum support price for sugarcane. The outfit said the support price for sugarcane has not been increased in the state for the past five years and demanded it be brought on a par with that in Haryana, which offers Rs 350 a quintal. Punjab gives Rs 310 a quintal. The SKM has demanded immediate release of arrears to sugarcane farmers. “If this is not done, Punjab will also witness permanent sit-ins like Delhi’s borders. There will be protests in front of every sugar mill,’’ SKM leaders warned, trying to push their demand ahead of the elections in Punjab next year. By threatening to open a front against the Congress-led government in Punjab, the farmers will also be able to shrug off allegations that their ire is only directed at the BJP. Meanwhile, the SKM has decided to step up the agitation at the Delhi borders that has lost some steam because of farmers returning home for the harvest season, the second wave of the pandemic and the accompanying lockdown. The SKM has given a call to observe May 26 as a Black Day as the completion of six months of the protest coincides with seven years of the Modi regime. Village and mohalla-level mass protests, including the burning of effigies of the Modi government, are being planned for the day. Farmers have also been asked to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles. All the protest sites will organise black flag demonstrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: New York promises medical aid to India||New York City mayor Bill de Blasio has announced plans to tap into the city’s stockpile to send Covid-19 test kits, swabs, ventilators, pulse oximeters and other vital medical supplies to India to save lives in the country. In a statement posted on the official website of the City of New York, de Blasio said that just over a year ago, the city was the centre of the global pandemic. “Now it is our turn to step up and help India in its moment of crisis. We are sending vital medical equipment to India to send a clear message: nobody is in the fight against Covid-19 alone. Together, we can save lives and beat back the pandemic,” he said. Kapil Longani, counsel to the mayor, said: “As a proud Indian immigrant with generations of family currently living in India, it breaks my heart to see the ongoing Covid-19 tragedy unfold.” “The mayor is a leading citizen of the world, and on behalf of the Indian community, I offer my deepest gratitude for his decision to commit life-saving resources to India,” he said. Deputy mayor of health and human services Melanie Hartzog said: “This horrible pandemic has taken too many lives, and we cannot stand idle as it continues to wreak havoc in another city. I stand with my colleagues in the City government to make sure we provide any and all support possible to our fellow citizens in India.” When Covid-19 struck the US last year, New York City became an epicentre, prompting authorities to shut it in mid-March as the coronavirus ravaged the metropolis. Democratic lawmaker Grace Meng, representative of New York’s 6th Congressional district in New York City, said: “India is our dear friend and ally and we must continue to be there for its people in their urgent time of need. I thank mayor de Blasio for sending this critical aid, and ask all New Yorkers to keep India in their thoughts and prayers.” Indian-origin Assembly member Jenifer Rajkumar said: “As the first Indian-American woman elected to state office in New York, I stand in solidarity with the people of India at their time of need.” “The largest Indian-American population in the western hemisphere is here in New York City. It was Reverend Dr Martin Luther King Jr who said, ‘Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly,’ and that has never been more true than during the Covid-19 pandemic…. “ I applaud mayor de Blasio and (health) commissioner (Dave A.) Chokshi for recognising that we are all in this pandemic together and for sending supplies to the people of India so they can fight this deadly virus,” she said. Randhir Jaiswal, consul-general of India in New York, said: “We greatly appreciate the generous gift by New York City to the Government of India. The ventilators, bipaps (bi-level positive airway pressure) and testing kits which have been donated by New York will be immensely useful in fighting the pandemic in India. The supplies being sent will further add to the robust assistance provided by the US government to India. The empathy shown by this great City is admirable.” New York’s thousands of Indian-Americans are filled with anger and helplessness as they witness the unnecessary tragedy back in the country, said Harpreet Singh Toor, co-founder and president of South Asians for Global Empowerment. “Especially when our own situation has become so full of hope, it is the right time to join mayor Bill de Blasio in calling for a full-scale effort to donate vaccines, Covid-19 test kits, swabs, ventilators, pulse oximeters, and every other type of relief possible to India,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Appeal on PM CARES Fund in Supreme Court||An appeal was filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that money from the PM CARES Fund is used to import vaccines, oxygen and other equipment so that citizens get free medical aid during the pandemic. The following are the directions sought: ⚫ Utilise PM CARES Fund for immediate import of vaccines, oxygen plants and generators, and other equipment and their installation in the 738 district hospitals in the country. ⚫ Exempt import duty on equipment relating to medical oxygen generation for indefinite period. ⚫ Direct all states and Union Territories to ensure all private and charitable hospitals  procure adequate medical equipment to see no more lives are lost. ⚫ Ask states and Union Territories to forthwith set up crematoriums for disposing of bodies in a dignified manner. ⚫ Ensure MPs and MLAs spend area development funds on Covid relief. ⚫ Ask Centre and states to prepare a national plan under the Disaster Management Act to tackle the pandemic. ⚫ Pay compensation to victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid outbreak: National Talent Search Examination postponed||The National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), which is conducted to select Class X students for scholarship till they complete higher studies, has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has issued a notice to postpone stage-II of the test, which was supposed to be held on June 13. Stage-I of the exam is conducted at the state level while stage-II is held at the national level. The NCERT has a state-wise quota system while allowing the stage-I qualified students. The stage-I exam has already been held. Students qualifying in stage-II get Rs 1,250 per month in Classes XI and XII and Rs 2,000 at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The NCERT attributed the postponement to the prevailing Covid situation in the country and lockdown in many states. Earlier, the National Testing Agency (NTA) had postponed tests such as the Joint Entrance Examination Main, which is used to select students for admission into BTech courses, and the National Eligibility Test for posts of assistant professors. The National Board of Examination has also deferred its NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) postgraduate exam. The AIIMS, too, has postponed its PG entrance test. Student demand Student associations such as the Students’ Federation of India and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad have demanded cancellation of all types of tests after students of different higher educational institutions opposed the move to hold online exams. Students of St Stephen’s College had on Friday demanded the cancellation of the proposed online exams for the fourth and sixth semesters. Students of Jawaharlal Nehru University have also written to the deans and vice-chancellor to not hold online exams now. “The university community is losing many of its members due to the deadly spree of the virus. With many of our professors failing in their fight with Covid and most of our departments being down with Covid, the time is just so improper for academic activity or examination,” said Akhil K.M., convener of the SFI in Delhi University. The JNU’s ABVP unit has in a letter to the vice-chancellor requested him to stop all forms of examinations now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||India||Veterans seek Ram Nath Kovind's intervention to postpone Central Vista project||A group of veterans has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention as the head of State to direct the government to postpone the Central Vista project by two years. In their letter to the President, the veterans from the three armed services said: “We are Covid-19’s worst-affected nation, with millions of people impacted every day, and our medical services are not only overburdened, but also experiencing a catastrophic scarcity of nearly everything. Is this the time to indulge in such a wasteful spending when our economy is in such a state of flux and we lack the resources to provide even basic medical assistance to our thronging and suffering millions of Indians?” Of the view that deferring the project, under which a new Parliament House and a host of other buildings, including a residence for the Prime Minister are being built, would be in the best interest of the nation, the veterans said this would not tarnish anyone’s credibility but would only add to it; quoting Mahatma Gandhi who had said: “Acknowledgment of an error is like a broom that sweeps away the dirt and leaves it cleaner than before.” Work on the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project has been going on uninterrupted despite the lockdown in the national capital with the central government designating it as an essential service. The sight of the lawns along Rajpath being dug up and the trees that lined the road uprooted has triggered widespread outrage not just for the destruction of a heritage area but also for the government going ahead with the “vanity” project at a time of unprecedented pain and misery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||India||Steroid abuse and uncontrolled diabetes link to black fungus infection among Covid patients||Steroid abuse and uncontrolled diabetes are likely contributing to outbreaks of a black fungus infection among Covid-19 patients across India, two senior doctors guiding India’s pandemic response said on Saturday, urging vigilance and immediate preventive measures. The doctors said some states had reported among their Covid-19 patients hundreds of cases of the mucormycosis infection that can start in air pockets behind the forehead, nose, or cheekbones and spread to the eyes, lungs, or brain. Maharashtra, the state hardest hit by the Covid-19 epidemic, has reported over 2,000 cases while some other states have reported 400 to 500 cases. The Union health ministry said on Friday that at least 10 patients had died and some had gone blind. “This has emerged as a new priority — we need to fight this,” said Vinod Paul, chairman of the national Covid-19 task force and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. He said the Centre was trying to gather data from states on the numbers of cases detected. Doctors classify the fungus as a low-virulence organism that has been known to cause infections mainly in patients with compromised immune systems such as transplant recipients who have immunosuppressant medications or cancer patients on chemotherapy. “But because of Covid and Covid treatment, we’re seeing quite a lot of cases,” said Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “At AIIMS itself, we have 23 cases admitted, 20 of these are Covid-positive, three are negative.” Guleria said the Covid-19 infection lowered a class of blood cells called lymphocytes, increasing the risk of infections. “We’d seen this in the first wave too, but this time we’re seeing much more because of two other factors — uncontrolled diabetes and misuse of steroids,” he said. The risk of mucormycosis increases when blood sugar is uncontrolled and through inappropriate use of steroids either too early during the mild stages of Covid-19 infection or excessive doses of steroids given too long. Mucormycosis can lead to blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties or coughing of blood. “We’ve said this earlier — steroids are not needed during the mild and early stage of Covid-19 when they can cause harm and yield no benefit,” Guleria said. “Some patients don’t even know their sugar levels and when they get steroids, their sugar shoots up.” Covid-19 patients on oxygen therapy where humidifiers are used may also be susceptible to the fungal infection because of exposure to moisture. Doctors recommend that sterile or distilled water be used in the humidifiers to reduce risk. The standard treatment for mucormycosis involves the anti-fungal medicines called amphotericin B, posaconazole or isavoconazole. Paul said India had sufficient stocks of anti-fungal medicines. He cautioned that extensive spread of the infection sometimes needs to be treated through complex surgery that would require multi-disciplinary teams, for instance, ear-nose-throat (ENT) surgeons working with neurosurgeons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Govt cites second wave to stop migrant survey ||The government has cited the Covid second wave to freeze fieldwork for five national surveys, including one on the socio-economic conditions of the epidemic-ravaged migrant workers. Workers’ representatives, however, have said this should not become an excuse to delay assistance, underlining that a lot of data already exists on the vulnerable sections among the working class that make it clear they need immediate relief. A labour ministry wing, the labour bureau, was to start these surveys from April. “The house-to-house survey work has been paused for now because people would not entertain the enumerators. The survey work will immediately begin as and when the situation improves,” said D.P.S. Negi, senior labour and employment adviser in the labour and employment ministry and director-general of the labour bureau. Two of the surveys were meant to assess the socio-economic conditions of migrant workers and domestic workers, respectively. The remaining three were to study the employment generated by (a) professionals such as doctors, chartered accountants and lawyers (in the form of attendants, secretaries and the like); (b) the transport sector; and (c) all registered and registered establishments (the All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey or AQEES). The AQEES and the migrant survey were to start from April 1 and the other three in a phased manner from the third week of April. The surveys were to be completed by October. A.R. Sindhu, general secretary of CPM labour arm Citu, said the findings of about a dozen surveys that were in the public domain had already highlighted the sufferings of migrant labourers, domestic workers and other unorganised-sector workers. “Even if the official surveys had to be put on hold, a lot of surveys have already been done by universities and civil society groups. They all suggest that the unorganised-sector workers and migrant labourers have been hit the worst by the epidemic,” Sindhu said. “The Centre and state governments need to provide food, vaccination and monetary assistance to the vulnerable sections. The Centre must issue a notification to ensure that workers are not retrenched and are paid the full wages for the work done and a compensation for the lean period.” Sindhu said the Centre had had ample opportunity in the past one year to survey the working class. After the migrant workers returned home in the months following the March 25 lockdown last year, the government could easily have gathered data from the quarantine centres and prepared a registry of migrants, she said. “But the government showed no interest. We demand immediate assistance, based on the available data, for migrant and unorganised-sector workers,” Sindhu added. Ashok Singh of Congress labour wing Intuc echoed Sindhu. “Except for announcing free rations for two months to ration card holders, the Centre has not taken any step so far to help the migrants and domestic workers. It wants the states to bear the responsibility, which is not right,” Singh said. In 2019, the labour bureau had abolished its Quarterly Employment Surveys (QES) that used to collate job data from organised-sector establishments employing 10 or more workers. Negi said the QES had now been subsumed under the AQEES. Negi said the survey questionnaires would now have to be revised since the original ones had not envisaged a second wave of Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
