17-05-2021||India||CoWIN portal now in Hindi and other languages||The CoWIN portal will be made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week, while 17 more laboratories will be added to the INSACOG network to monitor the variants of Covid-19, the health ministry said on Monday. According to a statement by the ministry, these decisions were announced at the 26th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, on Monday. Vardhan informed his colleagues that 17 new laboratories are going to be added to the INSACOG network to increase the number of samples screened and allow for more spatial analysis, the ministry said. The network is presently served by 10 laboratories located at different corners of the country. Speaking on their contribution to the country's achievements today, Vardhan said, "India's new Covid-19 cases have dropped to less than three lakh for the first time after 26 days. Also, a net decline of 1,01,461 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in the last 24 hours." He lauded the efforts of defence scientists and the leadership of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching the country's first indigenous anti-COVID drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose or 2-DG (developed by the DRDO in collaboration with the INMAS and the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories), the ministry said. The research efforts for the drug started in April last year and ended recently, when the DCGI gave it the emergency-use approval (EUA). The minister informed the members that the drug can become a gamechanger in the country's response to the pandemic as it reduces the dependence of patients on oxygen administration and has the potential of getting absorbed differentially and in a selected manner. In the Covid-infected cells, it inhibits virus synthesis and energy production for the process. He noted that the Centre continues to help the states under a "whole of government" approach to tide over the pandemic. Over 4.22 crore N95 masks, 1.76 crore PPE kits, 52.64 lakh Remdesivir injections and 45,066 ventilators were distributed among the states and Union territories, according to the statement. The Union health secretary apprised the meeting that the CoWIN platform is being made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week. Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, NCDC, presented a detailed report on the mutations of SARS-CoV-2 and the Variants of Concern (VoCs) being reported in India. He showed figures related to the state-wise prevalence of VoCs like the B.1.1.7 and B.1.617. The B.1.1.7 lineage (UK variant) was found predominant in the samples collected in Punjab and Chandigarh between February and March, the statement said. Dr Balaram Bhargava, Secretary, Health Research and DG, ICMR, made a presentation on the innovative changes in testing policy that would widen its scope of application and help in mass screening for COVID, particularly in peri-urban and rural settings, where the health infrastructure is relatively weak. Deployment of mobile RT-PCR testing vans and amplification of RAT tests were presented as the way forward. While the present capacity is around 25 lakh (RTPCR 13 lakh, RAT 12 lakh), this is projected to exponentially increase to 45 lakh (RTPCR 18 lakh, RAT 27 lakh) under the new testing regimen. The DG, ICMR also informed regarding the home-isolation guidelines, which have been converted into Hindi and other regional languages for a wider reach. Warning signs for hospitalisation, admission to ICU and for potential administration of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab were also highlighted. S. Aparna, Secretary (Pharma) informed that a dedicated cell has been created to coordinate production and allocation of the drugs in demand to treat Covid-19. Stress was laid on the procurement and allocation of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Amphotericin-B. She notified that the demand for Favipiravir too has increased, although the drug is not recommended in COVID medical guidelines. She suggested IEC campaigns for a judicious use of these drugs. The secretary (pharma) also highlighted that Remdesivir production has more than tripled in the country with government intervention from around 39 lakh to 1.18 crore vials per month. The demand for Amphotericin-B, which is used in the treatment of mucormycosis, has also increased. Five suppliers have been identified and efforts are being made for an optimal allocation of the drug. The states were given one lakh vials from May 1-14, while avenues for import are being actively explored, the statement said. The secretary (pharma) further emphasised that the states must make an equitable distribution among the government and the private hospitals and keep the public informed on availability and shop details, help prevent unnecessary stockpiling and ensure timely payments to the manufacturers. Vardhan expressed his appreciation to all COVID warriors who have remained steadfast in their duty during the pandemic, "without showing any signs of deprivation and fatigue". He was joined by Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways (I/C) and Chemical and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health, joined the meet digitally. Dr Vinod K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog was also present virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
17-05-2021||India||Modi speaks to CMs of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa on cyclone response||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa besides the lieutenant governor of Daman and Diu regarding preparation and response to deal with cylone Tauktae. Cyclonic storm Tauktae over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai, civic officials said. On Monday, residents of Mumbai woke up witnessing gusty winds and heavy showers due to the cyclone. The city continued to be battered by heavy rains through the day. State Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said 193 COVID-19 patients admitted in a makeshift centre in Mumbai's Bandra-Kurla Complex had been shifted to other BMC-run hospitals due to the heavy rains that lashed the city. The police have been asked to maintain close coordination with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials ward-wise to implement mitigation measures, an official told PTI. "All police stations and posts have been asked to check communication equipment like wireless sets and public address systems to ensure they are working optimally. The same instructions have been given for vehicles and life-saving and rescue items like life jackets, first-aid kits, ropes, hammers, emergency lighting, stretchers etc," the official informed. Over 12,000 citizens were relocated to safer places from Maharashtra's coastal areas. Those relocated include 8,380 people in Raigad, 3,896 in Ratnagiri, and 144 in Sindhudurg districts. Two persons died in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe the cyclonic storm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said. Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with the cyclone's fallout in a high-level meeting which was attended by several ministries and agencies concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
17-05-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt extends Covid curfew till May 31||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday decided to extend the curfew till May 31 as the coronavirus graph continued to be on a steep upward spiral in the state. The Covid-19 curfew, daily from noon to 6 AM, that came into force on May 5 was supposed to end on Tuesday but, at a high-level review meeting on the pandemic, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to extend it till the month-end. The state added 1,43,684 cases in the first week of May and the number shot up to 1,90,117 during May 8-16. AP reported over 20,000 cases per day, with a record 24,171 on May 16, in the last six days, clearly indicating that the curfew had had no impact. "The curfew should be in force at least for four weeks to achieve the desired results (breaking the coronavirus chain). So continue it," the Chief Minister directed the authorities. A release from the Chief Minister's Office said Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the health officials to take steps to bring down the Covid-19 cases, particularly in rural areas. The Chief Minister also asked the officials to take care of children who lose their parents to Covid-19. "Prepare an action plan on extending required financial assistance to such children. Deposit a fixed amount in their name so that they can utilise the interest for their regular needs," Jagan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||AirAsia announces free cancellation, rescheduling for flights to and from Bengal||Budget carrier AirAsia India on Monday announced free cancellation and rescheduling for flights to and from West Bengal in the wake of a 15-day lockdown in the state. A 15-day lockdown came into force in Bengal on Sunday, with the government putting in place a host of stringent measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. Further, the Bangalore-based private carrier said it was extending the similar facility, announced earlier for flights to and from Karnataka, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu as well for the current duration of the respective state lockdowns. While the lockdowns in Karnataka, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are in force till May 24, West Bengal will continue to be under lockdown till May 30, while in Maharashtra, it will last till June 1. All AirAsia India guests who booked their flights before the announcement of the lockdown can opt to cancel or change to another flight without incurring any change fees or cancellation charges, the airline said in a release. Flights can be changed or cancelled seamlessly in less than a minute by AirAsia India's new chatbot, Tia, available on airasia.co.in or on WhatsApp Chat at +91 63600 12345 as well as by entering flight details on Manage' on airasia.co.in, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||First batch of anti-Covid drug 2DG released||The first batch of anti-COVID oral drug 2-DG, developed by the DRDO, was released on Monday by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients earlier this month. In his brief remarks, Singh said the drug has brought a new ray of hope for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. "This is a great example of the scientific prowess of our country," he said. At the same time, the defence minister said that it is not the time to relax and get tired as there is nothing definitive about the course of the pandemic. "We do not need to be relaxed, nor should we get tired. Because this wave has come for the second time, and there is nothing definite about this. We have to take steps with full caution," he said at the event in DRDO headquarters. Singh said the government has taken the overall situation seriously, whether it is the matter of oxygen supply or ensuring ICU beds or the arrangement of cryogenic tankers for transportation of liquid oxygen. "I am happy to say that the Medical Corps has also decided to take back its retired doctors so that our health system can be strengthened further. I heartily commend such physicians who are joining this campaign even after their service," Singh said. The defence minister also listed efforts of the armed forces in helping civilian authorities deal with the situation across the country. However, he asserted that deployment of the armed forces for Covid-relief measures has not impacted their operational preparedness at the borders. "Even after going through all these difficulties, we have ensured that our preparedness at the border does not have any impact. There is no shortage of enthusiasm and enthusiasm of our forces anywhere. We know this very well, no matter how big the difficulty is, we will overcome it," he said. The Defence Ministry on May 8 said that the clinical trials of the drug 2-DG showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. The approval of the drug has come at a time India has been grappling with a record-breaking wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched the country's healthcare infrastructure to its limit. The anti-COVID-19 therapeutic application of 2-DG drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of DRDO, in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) in Hyderabad. The drug comes in powder form in sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water, the ministry said. In efficacy trends, the ministry said, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care (SoC) on various endpoints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally drops below 3 lakh after a month||India's COVID-19 tally mounted to 2,49,65,463 on Monday with 2,81,386 fresh cases, the lowest in 27 days, while the death toll climbed to 2,74,390 as 4,106 more people succumbed to the disease, according to Union health ministry data. However, 2,11,74,076 patients have recuperated from the disease, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.10 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases stands at 35,16,997, accounting for 14.09 per cent of the total infections. The national recovery rate has improved to 84.81 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 31,64,23,658 samples had been tested up to May 16 with 15,73,515 tested on Sunday. The 4,106 new fatalities include 974 from Maharashtra, 403 from Karnataka, 311 from Tamil Nadu, 308 from Uttar Pradesh, 262 from Delhi, 202 from Punjab, 188 from Uttarakhand, 156 from Rajasthan, 147 from West Bengal, 144 from Chhattisgarh, 139 from Haryana and 101 from Andhra Pradesh. Of the total 2,74,390 deaths reported in the country, 81,486 were from Maharashtra, 21,837 from Karnataka, 21,506 from Delhi, 17,670 from Tamil Nadu, 17,546 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,284 from West Bengal, 11,895 from Punjab and 11,734 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Tauktae expected to cross Gujarat coast on Monday evening ||CycloneTauktae is expected to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva between 8 pm to 11.30 pm and can cause heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated parts of the state, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. Extremely powerful winds with speed up to 185 kilometres per hour - enough to uproot trees and electricity poles - are expected to hit the state. The Gujarat government has shifted over a lakh people living in coastal areas to safer places after the IMD issued warnings of tidal waves and flooding. Several places in 21 districts received light rainfall due to the cyclone. The Gujarat government has deployed teams from several departments to provide rescue and relief. Special arrangements have been made in hospitals treating COVID-19 patients to ensure uninterrupted electricity, the government said. Hundreds of ambulances have been kept on standby to shift patients in cases of emergency. Earlier in the day India Meteorological Department announced that the cyclone had turned into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm", the (IMD) said on Monday. The rapid intensification happened in the early hours of Monday, said the IMD which had earlier not predicted that Tauktae will intensify into an extremely severe cyclonic storm. The IMD has, however, forecast that its intensity will reduce when it hits the Gujarat coast. "The very severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' (pronounced as Tau'Te) over eastcentral Arabian Sea moved north-north-westwards with a speed of about 20 kmph during past six hours, intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of 17th and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) during the night (2000 2300 hours IST) of May 17 as a very severe cyclonic storm with a maximum sustained wind speed 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph," it added. Around 1.5 lakh people are being shifted from low-lying coastal areas in Gujarat, while 54 teams of the NDRF and SDRF remained deployed after IMD's warning that Tauktae will reach the state coast on Monday evening and cross it Tuesday. "The cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' has further intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) at 000 UTC and lay centred at 18.5N/71.5E, with a ragged eye," the IMD tweeted Monday morning. "Very severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' over the east-central Arabian Sea intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm: cyclone warning and post-landfall outlook for Gujarat and Diu coasts (Red message)," the IMD tweeted. Skymet, a private company that provides weather forecasts and solutions, said landfall is likely between Gujarat's Mahuva and Porbandar areas and close to Diu. "A swathe of 100 km on either side of the anticipated strike always remains vulnerable," it said. In Mumbai, five temporary shelters each have been put up in 24 civic wards of the metropolis so that citizens can be shifted there, if necessary. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, warning of very heavy rains at isolated places with strong winds on Monday as Tauktae is likely to pass close to the Mumbai coast. Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) stationed in the western suburbs of Mumbai have been put on alert. Teams of the Indian Navy are also kept on standby, officials said. Meanwhile, in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra, two people died and another was injured after a tree fell on a hut, an official said. It wasn't clear if the incident was directly related to the severity of the cyclonic storm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Rahul shares poster critical of Modi, dares PM to arrest him||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday dared Narendra Modi to arrest him as he shared a poster critical of the Prime Minister’s handling of the vaccination drive that has led to the arrest of around 25 people in Delhi over the past few days. Rahul uploaded the poster that read, “Modiji hamare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya (Modi, why did you send abroad vaccines meant for our children)?” and tweeted: “Arrest me too.” Other than undermining the right to ask questions, the arrests have triggered outrage because poor people who had been paid paltry amounts to paste the posters had been arrested. Several social media users underlined that by cracking down, the government had ironically ensured that lakhs of people across the world have now viewed the widely shared pictures of the posters, which would otherwise have caught the attention of a few hundred in Delhi’s neighbourhoods. The Congress wondered who else could be questioned for the export of crores of doses of vaccines without ensuring adequate supplies within the country, and over other Covid-related concerns if the sole decision-making authority was the Prime Minister himself. While Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made the poster her profile picture on Twitter, former Union minister Jairam Ramesh pasted similar posters on the walls of his residence. Ramesh had tweeted earlier: “Putting up critical posters against the Prime Minister is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is Delhi police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic?? I am putting up posters on my compound wall tomorrow. Come get me Delhi police, Amit Shah.” The Delhi police report to the Union home ministry helmed by Shah. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Celebrate, India is a free country. There is freedom of speech. Except, when you ask a question of the honourable Prime Minister. That is why Delhi police arrested 24 persons for allegedly pasting a poster in Delhi. “The poster asked a simple question of the PM: Why did you export the vaccines meant for our children? Even before the Prime Minister could answer, the loyal Delhi police answered with arrest. Celebrate, India is a free country!” Lawyer and Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted: “Am shocked & stunned. May vehemently disagree but under what authority, what law, what power can you arrest those who put up posters — auto driver, printer, daily wager etc. “This, like the Uttar Pradesh arrest of a person who complained on losing his father, smacks of a lawless state gone amuck!” Veteran lawyer and Congress leader Kapil Sibal tweeted: “Whither democracy: Has our government lost it! Arresting daily wagers, printer, auto driver for anti-Modi posters. That too in New Delhi. Why don’t you arrest those responsible for loss of lives because of the government’s mishandling of this pandemic?” The Congress later held a media conference where spokesperson Pawan Khera flashed a placard that read: “I dare you, Mr Prime Minister! Arrest me.” Criticising the police action, the Congress said the government was behaving as if Modi’s “fake image” was more important than the lives of millions of people. Pointing to the national gloom with every family in grief and mourning, Khera said: “Lakhs of people are already dead. Most of these deaths could have been prevented as the real cause was not the pandemic but mismanagement and failure to provide oxygen and medical assistance. Even vaccines are not available. “Decision-making is not only centralised but individualised. One person will take all the decisions. One person will place the order for vaccines. Because he has to become the vaccine guru. Now if there is a crisis, who answers questions if not the Prime Minister?” Attributing to Modi personally the total control of Covid management, Khera said: “You negotiate with vaccine manufacturers. You delayed setting up of 162 on-site oxygen plants across 14 states. When things turn bad, you go silent, you disappear, you blame the states. You decide that Bengal will have elections in eight phases, you address super-spreader rallies. You said yes to the Kumbh Mela… then who will answer questions?” Khera added: “In January, you were patting your back at the World Economic Forum. You were ridiculing all those people, experts, leaders of Opposition, Rahul Gandhi for warning you, for forewarning you that a tsunami was coming. You were making fun of them, you were asking where is the tsunami? “When citizens were helping each other, young Congress leaders were arranging oxygen and medicines, your ministers were sitting with 300 officials to discuss how to refurbish your image. They were worried about perception management. Your fake image is more important than the lives of millions?” The Congress spokesperson dripped sarcasm when he asked Modi to enact a law that would make it necessary for bodies “to hail the emperor” to be cremated or buried. “Arthi tabhi uthegi jab badshah salamat ki wah-wah ho,” Khera said, defending the questions about the export of vaccines when Indians had not been adequately vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Virologist quits as chair of scientific advisory group||An eminent virologist who had said complacency had contributed to the ferocity of India’s second Covid-19 wave resigned on Sunday as chair of the scientific advisory group to a 10-lab government consortium tracking coronavirus variants in India. Shahid Jameel sent his resignation to the Union health ministry and the science ministry’s biotechnology department, the agencies supporting the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog), two senior consortium scientists told The Telegraph. The resignation comes days after Jameel published a guest article in The New York Times on India’s Covid-19 epidemic, where he wrote that his fellow scientists “are facing stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking”. The two senior consortium scientists contacted by this newspaper declined to speculate about Jameel’s resignation. “We’re sad to lose him,” one of them said. Jameel, contacted by this newspaper, declined comment. Jameel chaired the scientific advisory group to the consortium which is tasked with sequencing coronavirus variants across the country to determine their role in the epidemic and, if possible, predict future changes. The consortium’s efforts have suggested that a variant named B.1.617 observed to be more infectious than earlier variants has contributed to the sharp surge of infections across India since February. The World Health Organisation designated B.1.617 as a “variant of concern” last week. Some consortium scientists, however, have for weeks been concerned about the slow pace of sequencing and what they view as a conspicuous lack of the epidemiological data necessary to understand how the variants are spreading and affecting the disease pattern and severity in India. The Centre had announced the establishment of Insacog in late December but until at least the third week of March this year, the consortium had not received funds to support the sequencing efforts. The scientists had been asked to borrow funds from other projects. “Insacog has been slow but we have generated very useful data,” one consortium scientist said. Jameel had earlier this month, in an online video interview with another media organisation, expressed concern that India had allowed the virus to spread and cause “mayhem”. “Don’t let me give you this message that it is the virus alone that has caused this mayhem,” Jameel had said. “We allowed the virus to do this. The virus, of course, infected people and will continue to infect people as long as there are susceptible people. But we gave it the opportunity not to just spread but to spread so quickly.” During the video interview, Jameel had also said that India’s Covid-19 cases had continued to fall from the previous peak last September till February, even through the festivals during October and November. “All through the time as our graph was going down, we and our leaders started thinking we had conquered Covid,” Jameel said. “But you just had to look around. Every country in the world that peaked before us (had) a second wave before us. But we were constantly fed this narrative and we started believing the narrative that somehow Indians are special.” Jameel said several “superspreader events” such as weddings, local body elections, state elections, and religious congregations such as the Kumbh Mela would have provided opportunities for the virus to spread at a time when a more infectious variant had emerged in India. “First we became complacent and then this variant virus caught us at the right time, right time for the virus, wrong time for us. This together caused this mayhem that we’re looking at,” he said. Multiple public health experts, including some government medical researchers and members of national or state Covid-19 task forces, have expressed similar concerns to this newspaper over the past four weeks. “We’re unable to articulate some of these things,” one expert had said on the condition of anonymity earlier this month. Another expert and member of a task force had said he believed India had collectively failed to act on some early warning signals. Other scientists too had expressed concerns about policies not guided by evidence. One example, they said, was the Union health ministry’s persistent denial of community transmission of Covid-19 for which evidence had been available by April 2020. “Community transmission will happen only when they say it will happen,” a senior consortium scientist had told this newspaper last month. “We can’t do anything about this really. I wish things were different.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Suspected Covid corpses in the Ganga triggers fears of water contamination||The presence of corpses of suspected Covid-19 patients in the Ganga in northern India has triggered fears of contaminated water, but medical experts say people are far likelier to get infected from respiratory droplets and close contact than river water. Scientists say that while the disposal of Covid-19 patients’ bodies into rivers could release viral particles into the water, there is no evidence for Covid-19 transmission through water or food. Local authorities have over the past week plucked hundreds of bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients out of the river in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Many believe the dead were released into rivers because their families were unable to access or afford the increasingly scarce and costly crematory space and firewood. Downstream in Bengal, the images of bodies in rivers have hit fish demand. But, one doctor said, this is more likely driven by the disgust of consuming fish that may have fed on human bodies than by a fear of infection. Viruses need living cells to multiply in and cannot replicate in a dead body, but scientists say viruses in dead tissues can remain infectious for some time. This makes bodies of Covid-19 patients a potential source of infection requiring special precautions while burial or cremation. However, the chances of Covid infection through water remain minimal, scientists say, although corpses in rivers can easily spread many kinds of infections such as bacterial disease. Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, said: “Whether of a Covid-19 patient or not, any dead human or even a dead animal floating in rivers has the potential to spread infection.” “But this must not happen,” Tripathi said. “No civilised country should have dead bodies floating in rivers.” Any risk of Covid-19 infection posed by a floating body would depend on multiple factors – the body’s viral load, how long the virus can survive in dead tissues, the survivability of the virus in the water, and even the volumetric water flow at the site – Tripathi and others say. Four years ago, scientists at Japan’s National Institute of Animal Health found that the viability of another respiratory virus – the H1N1 influenza virus – in dead tissues depends on the temperature and type of tissue. At 20°C, the virus survived 3 days in the liver, 20 days in muscles, and 30 days in feather tissues. But at 4°C, the temperature inside a refrigerator, the virus survived for 20 days in the liver, 160 days in the muscle and 240 days in feather tissues. “We don’t have similar data yet to know how long SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) can survive in either dead bodies or in water,” said Tripathi. But viruses would be expected to lose their viability within hours to days in the current hot season across the country. While respiratory droplets and close contact are the main routes of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, multiple studies have shown strong evidence of intestinal infection by SARS-CoV-2. But, scientists say, intestinal infections by themselves do not necessarily mean the virus can spread through food or water. Many studies have found viral genetic material in stools and the gastrointestinal tracts of patients, Richard Flavell, professor of immunology at the Yale School of Medicine, and his colleagues said in a research review earlier this year. “But further research is needed to determine the mechanism of intestinal infection and the possibility of faecal-oral transmission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Cloud over scholarship for SC-ST schoolgirls||A government study has questioned the implementation and relevance of a scholarship programme for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe schoolgirls, raising concern among social activists that the education ministry might now discard the scheme. The activists believe that the government should come up with more scholarship schemes for students from the deprived sections, especially with the second wave of Covid leaving many children orphaned in these communities. What has compounded the activists’ fears is that before the government-run Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) handed in its report in March, the Union budget had already cut the scheme’s allocation to Rs 1 crore from the previous year’s Rs 110 crore. Ambedkarite scholar and Delhi University teacher N. Sukumar and activist Ashok Bharati said that instead of axing the National Scheme on the Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education, the government should rectify the programme’s shortcomings. “The coronavirus has put a question mark over the education of many children from the deprived sections who have lost one or both parents. More scholarship schemes should be started instead of closing any,” Bharati said. Under the scheme that the IEG has questioned, Dalit and tribal girls enrolled in government schools are entitled to a one-time scholarship of Rs 3,000 that is deposited in their name in Class IX. The money can be withdrawn after the student turns 18, provided she has cleared Class X and is unmarried. The scheme was launched in 2008 to try and ensure that Dalit and tribal girls finished school and were not married off before they turned 18. Last year’s budget allocation of Rs 110 crore was consistent with the kind of sums spent on the scheme over the past few years, but the amount was later revised to Rs 1 crore, which this year’s allocation mirrors. The education ministry had last year attributed the fund squeeze to a plan to redesign the scheme and commissioned the IEG study, two government officials said. The IEG studied the scheme’s impact in seven states, including Bengal. It said its implementation had remained erratic because of a lack of coordination among the Centre, states and school administrations and an absence of monitoring. Its findings: ⚫ Most students and teachers seem unaware of the scheme. ⚫ The parents often find it difficult to obtain caste certificates. ⚫ Schools struggle to upload the eligible students’ data on the online portal. ⚫ The scholarship sum is too meagre to make any difference. ⚫ Under-18 marriages have fallen, lowering the scheme’s relevance. A small sum like Rs 3,000 is no deterrent to the practice, anyway. ⚫ The girls usually clear Class X at 16 and have to wait two further years for the money. And often, the payment is further delayed. ⚫ The states’ parallel schemes are more popular. The IEG report went to the length of saying the scheme promotes discrimination since only Dalit and tribal girls receive the benefits — delivering a sweeping condemnation of all affirmative action and welfare schemes for specific genders, castes and economic groups — an official said. “The study’s findings do not support the scheme’s continuation. The government will take a decision,” the official said. Bharati said the Centre seemed to have got the report drawn up to clear the decks for closing the scheme. “If there are implementation issues, they need to be addressed. This scheme is not very popular because the government never tried to popularise it. To say it’s not relevant shows the government’s intent of scrapping it,” Bharati said. Sukumar said the scheme’s withdrawal would hinder the efforts to end caste discrimination. “If there’s a feeling of (undue reverse) discrimination, scholarship programmes can be started for other groups or this scheme can be broadened to include them,” he said. An email sent to the education ministry on April 5 with questions about the reduction in allocation and the possible fallout of the IEG’s report has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19 outbreak is probably India’s greatest challenge since Independence: Raghuram Rajan||The Covid-19 outbreak is probably India’s greatest challenge since Independence, former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan said on Saturday, adding that in many places the government was “not present to help the people”. “This is a tragic time in India given the pandemic. The Covid-19 pandemic is probably India’s greatest challenge since Independence,” Rajan said, addressing a virtual event organised by the University of Chicago Center in Delhi. “When the pandemic hit first, the challenge was largely economic as a result of lockdowns. Now the challenge is both economic and personal, and there will also be a social element to it as we go forward.” He added: “One of the effects of the pandemic is, we don’t see the government presence for various reasons.” Noting that the Maharashtra government was able to provide oxygen beds to Covid-19 patients, he said: “In many places that level of the government was also not working.” Rajan said: “I do hope (that) as this pandemic passes, we recognise that there are situations where government breaks down. The pandemic has shown that we are all connected. No man is island, no woman is island.” Rajan, a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said governments need to adjust and course-correct and this can be done in a polite way. “But enough people within the government and outside government have to speak up, otherwise we get a disaster,” he said. Rajan said that sometimes one needed to reform not by stealth but in full openness. He added that India needed a quick bankruptcy process for the MSME sector. Rajan, who was RBI governor from September 2013 to September 2016, recalled his famous IIT Delhi speech of October 2015, delivered in the middle of the “intolerance” debate in the country, which was seen by many as a criticism of the Narendra Modi government. “My IIT Delhi speech was not a criticism of the government.... Things get over-interpreted sometimes,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||AAP claims posters after Congress leads charge ||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday claimed it was behind the posters in New Delhi asking the Prime Minister why vaccines meant for India had been exported, hours after the Congress had launched an intense campaign condemning the arrests over the incident. The AAP municipal in-charge for the capital, Durgesh Pathak, told reporters: “If you (the Centre) are fond of arresting people, you believe that jailing people will silence them, then I want to tell you that these posters were put up by the AAP and me. Arrest me or our MLAs. Spare the poor who stick posters for Rs 200.” Police named five AAP activists in a media release on Sunday on the posters. No other party has been named so far. Pathak alleged that party cadres were being detained. He said: “Lakhs of people could have been saved had they been vaccinated. Nowadays people sit all night to find a vaccination slot, and spend their days trying to somehow manage a vaccine for themselves. Those above 45 are being pushed around outside vaccine centres. The only reason for that is that India’s Prime Minister and the BJP government sent crores of vaccines abroad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Union Health ministry releases guidelines for Covid management in rural areas||India’s health ministry on Sunday released guidelines for Covid-19 management in rural areas that some health experts say were overdue but pose an implementation challenge and carry the risk of an overemphasis on medicines. The standard operating protocols for containment and management of Covid-19 for “peri-urban, rural and tribal areas” outline processes for surveillance, detection and treatment — at home for mild cases and in a three-tiered structure for moderate or severe cases. While the Covid-19 epidemic arrived and predominantly grew in India’s urban areas, the ministry said on Sunday “a gradual ingress is now being seen” in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas. Some 490 districts across India on Sunday had a test positivity rate — the proportion found positive among those tested — of 10 per cent or higher, implying large epidemics. The guidelines recommend that “every village” should have active surveillance for influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory infections with the help of local accredited social health activists and village health sanitation and nutrition committees. They require community health officers and auxiliary nurse-midwives to be trained to perform rapid antigen tests to detect Covid-19 cases and triage — screen — patients to determine who could be treated at home in accordance with standard treatment guidelines. Each Covid-19 household would get a “home isolation kit” with paracetamol, ivermectin, multivitamins and provisions for periodic measurements of patients’ oxygen level and fever. The guidelines recommend a three-tier structure — a Covid-care centre for mild cases, primary health centres or community health centres or sub-district hospitals for moderate cases and district hospitals or private hospitals to manage severe cases with ambulances available for the rapid transport of patients. “The architecture they’ve proposed is very good — they know what’s required,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine specialist. “We should have had this document earlier, but better late than never. But implementation will pose a severe challenge.” Sundararaman said he was worried that during the implementation, the emphasis on home care would go into the medications because it is far easier to distribute paracetamol or vitamins than to provide the constant monitoring and quick transport of patients to hospitals. Doctors familiar with rural healthcare infrastructure said the human resources and the skills to implement the proposed guidelines were not available in many places. “We absolutely need to shore up our rural healthcare resources and Covid-19 is a good reason to do this,” said Yogesh Jain, a senior physician and member of the Jan Swasthya Sahyog, a non-government health organisation providing healthcare services in rural Chhattisgarh. “But at this moment, our focus should be to save lives,” Jain said. Efforts to decentralise Covid-19 care across the rural landscape by asking all primary health centres or community health centres to manage moderate patients, he said, will face staff and resource challenges. Over 63 per cent of the approved posts of specialist doctors in India’s community health centres were vacant on March 31, 2020, according to the health ministry’s rural health statistics. The shortfall from the actual requirement was 76 per cent. For now, Jain said, it might be more useful to concentrate staff, resources and skills in district hospitals or hospitals with stronger infrastructure and ensure that every patient who requires hospital care is moved with the help of dashboards and ambulance networks. “Healthcare in rural India is like oases in a desert. You can’t plant trees overnight in the desert.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid claims Congress rising star Rajeev Satav||Rajeev Satav, one of the Congress’s prominent young leaders and Rajya Sabha member, passed away on Sunday after he had appeared to have recovered from Covid. He was 46. The Congress MP from Maharashtra had tested positive for Covid on April 22 and had been admitted to a private hospital in Pune the next day. He had been on ventilator support. After testing negative on May 9, Satav was diagnosed with a Cytomegalovirus infection and his condition turned critical. “He had recovered from Covid-19. He had been taking immunosuppressant drugs as he was suffering from spondylitis and as his immunity was low, he contracted Covid-19. He later developed a bacterial infection due to which he had fibrosis in the lungs. Despite the best efforts of doctors, he succumbed to the infection,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. Satav had been in charge of the Congress’s affairs in the important state of Gujarat and was one of the key members of Rahul Gandhi’s team. A former Youth Congress president, Satav strongly believed in probity in public life and was committed to clean politics and secularism. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said she was deeply pained by Satav’s death, describing it as a “personal loss”. She spoke to his mother and wife and expressed her heartfelt condolences. Satav, who hailed from Maharashtra’s Hingoli district, leaves behind two children aged 11 and 16. Sonia described Satav as a rising star of the party who was known for his unfailing dedication and sincerity. “As Lok Sabha member (from 2014 to 2019), he championed people’s issues and fought for the ideals of the Constitution. He was a rising star of the Congress party,” she said. Rahul, who had invested heavily in Satav in terms of future politics, tweeted: “I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress. It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family.” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “In Rajeev Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress & devoted to the people of India. I have no words, just prayers for his young wife & children. May they have the strength to carry on without him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Valley smells political bias in state's vaccine distribution ||Many in the Valley are smelling political discrimination in the Jammu and Kashmir government’s vaccine distribution policy as BJP stronghold Jammu city has clocked nearly 100 per cent inoculation of the 45-plus population with the first dose while Srinagar city remains starved at 35 per cent. While Jammu is the winter capital of the fledgling Union Territory, Srinagar is the summer capital. The cries of bias have only got shriller after the administration of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha failed to administer even a single jab in Srinagar city in the past four days while Jammu city fared better with 14,714 jabs. According to official figures on Sunday, Jammu had administered the first dose of anti-Covid vaccine to 5,63,880 people in the above-45 category, or 99.39 per cent of the total beneficiaries in this group. In Srinagar, the number stood at 1,97,571, or 35.52 per cent. In the past four days, Kashmir has got only 504 jabs while the Jammu region, which has 10 districts including Jammu city, received 42,409. For the Jammu region as a whole, the percentage of the above-45 population inoculated with the first dose is 85.56. The Kashmir Valley region has clocked 61.15 per cent. Many in Kashmir see the skewed statistics as part of the Centre’s alleged anti-Valley policies. The government has attributed the low numbers to initial vaccine hesitancy in Kashmir. “We care for the people of all regions as much as we care for ourselves, but prioritising one region and ignoring the other amidst the deadly pandemic is regrettable,” former minister Imran Raza Ansari, one of the few Valley politicians believed to be close to the Centre, said in a statement. People’s Democratic Party spokesman Najmus Saqib alleged that Kashmir was being ignored on all fronts, vaccination being no exception. “Plus, you have an administration in place here which is directly run by the Centre, by the Union home ministry, which had been busy conducting the Bengal polls. How do you expect them to have any time for our state?” the PDP leader said. The director-general of the family welfare department, Dr Saleem-ur-Rahman, rubbished the claims of politics over vaccine distribution. “We are facing some delay in vaccine (availability) for the past one week. Before that, vaccines had been available in plenty, but people (in the Valley) were not coming initially. In Jammu, it (vaccination) remained steady,” Rahman told The Telegraph. “In Shopian (in the Valley), we have covered (nearly) 100 per cent. In the Valley (on the whole), we made repeated pleas to people to come for vaccines. But they were reluctant…. In the last 20 days, we have witnessed a massive demand in Kashmir, so much so that we administered 50,000 jabs in a day. In Jammu, we never touched that number in any day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: The girl with the oxygen cylinder in Uttar Pradesh||Arshi, 26, has earned herself a new name in the pandemic: “cylinder waali bitiya” or the daughter with the oxygen cylinder. What began as a struggle to procure the life-saving gas for her father, who has recovered from coronavirus disease, has turned into a mission to save the lives of others. Arshi has distributed around 20 oxygen cylinders for free. On the first day of Ramazan, the condition of her father, Mashoor, began deteriorating. While in home isolation, the doctor asked Arshi to get an oxygen cylinder. “When I approached the authorities, I was told that patients in home isolation cannot get oxygen cylinders and was advised to get my father admitted to a hospital,” she said. “I somehow managed to get one from the office of the city magistrate,” Arshi said. “I then came in contact with a social organisation based in Uttarakhand through WhatsApp which provided oxygen for my father and he recovered,” she said. Ever since, she has been helping anyone reaching out for oxygen over phone or WhatsApp, she said. The Shahjahanpur district president of the Samajwadi Party, Tanveer Khan, said: “Arshi is doing historic work.” Resident Syed Naved said Arshi got him three oxygen cylinders for his father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Yogi's rural clinics lack doctors, medicine||The Navdiya primary health centre in Shahjahanpur district, about 170km west of Lucknow, has no doctor, lab assistant, medicines or Covid testing kits. And no patients, of course. Another at Ranmandi in Saharanpur, 550km west of Lucknow, has no doctor — not even tables or chairs. But don’t say it is “shut”: its doors too have fallen off. “Our sole doctor, pharmacist and lab technician were all shifted last month to the Khutar community health centre (CHC), about 20km away. So, our hospital is empty,” Mamta Devi, an auxiliary nurse and midwife at the Navdiya primary health centre (PHC), said. Neighbouring Mudiya Kurmiyat is luckier. While its lone doctor too was shifted last month to a CHC in Banda, its lab technician is running the outpatient department, handing out paracetamol to people who come with Covid-like symptoms. None of these PHCs has admitted any patient for months if not years, local people say. An Uttar Pradesh health department report says 224 of the state’s 2,936 rural PHCs and 43 of its 293 CHCs have no doctor, paramedic or medicines. This, when Covid is ravaging the state’s rural areas. The PHCs are expected to have five to six doctors each and the larger CHCs, about a dozen. Vinay Dev Sharma, the lab technician at the Mudiya Kurmiyat PHC, said: “Pharmacist Suresh Kumar and I used to give medicines to the patients at the OPD. Now Suresh is on leave and I hand out paracetamol to 15 to 20 patients with Covid-like symptoms every day. We have no kits to test them for Covid. The lone doctor here was sent to the CHC last month.” Sub-divisional magistrate Satish Chandra said: “The doctors and paramedical staff are travelling door to door to test suspected cases and give them medicine. That’s why the PHCs are vacant.” But Abhinav Singh, panchayat chief of Mudiya Kurmiyat, confirmed that the lone doctor had been transferred. “At least 40 people have died in this neighbourhood of 10 villages in the past one month. Nobody has ever visited these villages to test people,” he said. Health department sources said health centres were vacant because the appointment process was slow and because doctors avoided rural postings. In the past six years, the Uttar Pradesh government has appointed just over 400 doctors. The Ranmandi PHC, inaugurated in the 1950s by then President Rajendra Prasad, has had just a lab technician and no doctor for a year. “But even the technician doesn’t report for work because there’s no chair or table in the four-room building, not even a door. It’s become a shelter for stray dogs and cattle,” a villager said. Veer Singh, a Ranmandi resident, said: “Sixteen people with Covid-like symptoms have died in our village in the last 10 days. We have not seen any doctor or health department official here in the past one year.” Ambedkar Nagar, 200km east of lucknow, seems to have witnessed a Covid survey for some time. But Ramakant Mishra, a social worker from the district, has written to the state government saying the rapid antigen tests were halted in the villages a fortnight ago while RT-PCR tests were being conducted in limited numbers. “When the government is sitting idle during the second wave of Covid, what should we expect from it in the third phase?” Mishra said. Jamal Ahmad, a schoolteacher in Ambedkar Nagar, said: “While dozens are dying every day in rural Ambedkar Nagar, the medical teams are busy in the towns. The government knows that rural people don’t raise a hue and cry over the death of their kin.” Dr Om Prakash, chief medical superintendent at the Ambedkar Nagar district hospital, said: “We don’t have antigen test kits. We shall start a door-to-door survey as soon we have the kits and medicines.” Sixty people with Covid-like symptoms have died in the Dulheri, Assa and Akbarpur Sadat villages in Meerut in the past 10 days, sources said. Dr Ashutosh Kumar, who is in charge of the local CHC, said: “We shall soon organise camps in the villages and start testing people. We are waiting for the kits.” “When will they start treating us, when all the villagers are dead?” asked Pramod Kumar, a resident of Akbarpur Sadat. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has claimed to have deployed 59 nodal officers across the state to contain the spread of the infection in the rural areas. “The chief minister has asked us to focus on the rural areas. Nodal officers, district magistrates and sectors-in-charge are vigilant. Medical teams are monitoring the situation,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home department. Awasthi, claimed there was no shortage of anything in the state’s Covid hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi lockdown extended by a week||The Delhi government has extended the lockdown in the capital by a week, buoyed by the falling coronavirus positivity rate. The national capital recorded 6,456 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest since April 7. The positivity rate has dropped to 10.40 per cent, the lowest in over a month, according to a Delhi government health bulletin. The positivity rate was 11.32 per cent on Saturday, 12.4 per cent on Friday, 14.24 per cent on Thursday, 17 per cent on Wednesday, 17.8 per cent on Tuesday, 19.10 per cent on Monday and 21.67 per cent last Sunday. Delhi, at one point the worst affected city in the country, had recorded its highest positivity rate of 36.2 per cent on April 22. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told the capital’s residents in a webcast on Sunday not to expect more vaccines as his pleas to the Centre had not been answered. “Coronavirus cases are also rapidly declining, but the gains we have made in the past few days, we don’t want to lose them. So we are going to extend the lockdown for another week,” the AAP leader said. Kejriwal added: “As far as I can understand, Delhi is slowly coming back on track. The lockdown is to continue as it is, no concessions will be given. Regarding Covaxin and Covishield, we have written both to the central government and the two companies to provide us with the vaccines, but there is no indication of the vaccines being given to us.” New Delhi has been under a lockdown since April 20 with several exemptions, which included weddings with up to 50 attendees. This exemption has been further restricted to weddings only inside homes or at courts with no more than 20 people present. Last week, Metro services, which had earlier been restricted to the bare minimum, was stopped. With Delhi following the national trend of more recoveries than new cases, the oxygen crisis in the capital has abated. However, the city is yet to start food relief for migrant workers without ration cards, which had led to their flight last month. Vaccine stocks are running short in the capital, and Covaxin-manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused additional supplies. None below 45 is receiving Covaxin now in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: 30 deaths in two weeks at minister V.K. Singh’s village||As many as 30 people have died at Union minister V.K. Singh’s ancestral village Bopara in Haryana in the past two weeks, the sarpanch said on Sunday as the unusually high number of deaths raised concern that Covid-19 could be the cause. Bopara village head Naresh said many of these people had shown symptoms of the novel coronavirus infection, but only three of them had tested positive. “Over 30 people have died in the village over the past two weeks. Many of them were aged. Among those who died, only three were confirmed Covid-19-positive cases,” he said. Bhiwani deputy commissioner Jaibir Singh Arya told PTI over phone that all residents of the village had been screened for the disease. The officer, who toured the village on Sunday, also said that an ambulance had been stationed there. “We have set up an isolation centre in the village and also stationed an ambulance for emergency use. Vaccination centres have been set up here,” he said. “The entire village has been sanitised.” Sarpanch Naresh said Bopara village had a population of over 20,000. Commenting on the deaths, he said: “They had symptoms like fever and cough, but did not get tested. So, the real cause behind their deaths remains unknown.” He said many villagers were reluctant to undergo Covid-19 tests. The village head, however, said health department officials had stepped up testing and screening in the village to check the spread of the infection. “Random tests of over 150 people were conducted during the past couple of days and only one was found positive,” he said. Naresh said the state government had also been holding vaccination camps and one such camp recently saw good response from the villagers. Bopara, the sarpanch said, is also known as the “village of faujis (soldiers)” and happens to be the native village of Union minister Singh, a retired general. Bopara is not the only village to have reported such an unusually high number of deaths due to suspected Covid-19. Last month, 21 people had died in Rohtak’s Titoli village, but officials said only four of them were confirmed to have died of the infection. There had also been reports of nearly 40 deaths in Mundhal Khurd and Mundhal Kalan villages in Bhiwani in recent weeks. Reacting to such developments, the Opposition had demanded that Covid-19 testing in rural areas be stepped up. Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had sought the formation of a task force to deal with Covid-19 in rural areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Newly-wed woman dies after allegedly failing to get a hospital bed  in Odisha||A newly-wed bride in Odisha died of Covid-19 on Saturday after allegedly failing to get a hospital bed in the state capital of Bhubaneswar. Swarnalata, 25, breathed her last in an ambulance. Her husband, Bishnu Charan Bhol, 29, visited at least nine hospitals in the city, but was turned down citing full occupancy. She was cremated on Sunday afternoon at Satya Nagar crematorium in the city. Bhol said he tried his luck almost everywhere, knocking the doors of the AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, and the state-run Capital Hospital but, everywhere he was told that no beds were vacant. They also told him that they could not help him, as his wife had not undergone a Covid test. “I pleaded with the authorities but everywhere I was asked to leave. I was shocked by the behaviour of hospital authorities as at some places they asked the guards to drive me out. None helped me because I am a farmer and semiliterate. I am feeling completely broken,” the husband said. Bhol, a resident of Indolo Kusiari village under Balipatna block near Bhubaneswar, got married to Swarnalata on April 28. “Our wedding was just a fortnight old. It was fixed six months ago, but had been delayed because of the pandemic. During the last six months, we had chatted and talked about our dreams. We had dreamt to build a house in the village and lead a happy life with our kids. Now all those dreams are gone,” Bhol told The Telegraph from the crematorium. Swarnalata had started running temperature only five days ago. “I immediately got in touch with my in laws. We gave her some medicines after consulting the nearby by medical shops. She used to have temperature late in the evening and by the morning it used to subside.” “As her health was deteriorating, I took her to the government hospital at Athantar near my village.  As we don’t have the Covid report of Swarnalata, the local doctor referred us to the Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar which is 25km from my village,” Bhol said. When the government ambulance did not immediately turn up, Bhol hired a private ambulance. “As soon as I reached the Capital Hospital around 11. 30am on Saturday, they asked me go to the SCB Medical College, Cuttack, which is 35km from Capital Hospital. So, I decided to go to the AIIMS, which is nearly 10km,” Bhol said. But the AIIMS, too, refused to admit Swarnalata as she did not have a Covid report and her condition had deteriorated. “Later, I went with her to almost every hospital in the city trying my luck with them one by one and moved around the city for nearly 100km in five hours.  I even paid Rs 35,000 to the ambulance driver as he used six oxygen cylinders during the journey.” Turned away by the hospitals, Bhol returned to the Athantar Hospital once again near his village. “It was too late by the time I reached there. She passed away in the ambulance itself. I was completely broken,” said Bhol, who is the only son of his parents. Local ward member Sushant Kumar Biswal said: “After we intervened, the Athantar Hospital authorities did the Covid test of the patient and it turned out to be positive. Had the medical authorities intervened at the right time and provided her a bed in the ICU, her life could have been saved.” Following a rise in complaints about patients not getting ICU beds, the state government has constituted four flying squads that would inspect different hospitals and ensure that patients get beds. Additional chief secretary and head of health and family welfare department, P.K. Mohapatra told this newspaper: “We are examining this particular incident. We will certainly take steps if anyone is found guilty. Why not the relatives of the patients availed the government ambulance.  We do have beds.  But only deserving patients will get them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Odisha govt forms doctor panel to suggest measures for tackling the third wave of Covid-19||The Odisha government has roped in eminent surgeons, including president, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) Prof. K. Srinath Reddy, vice-chairman and managing director of the Asian Heart Institute and Research Centre Ramakanta Panda and chairman and founder of Narayana Health Devi Prasad Shetty to suggest measures for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 that is expected to hit the state and the country after the current wave. The state government on Saturday constituted the high-powered advisory committee under the chairmanship of Prof. K. Srinath Reddy. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said: “Scientists, eminent doctors, surgeons are included in the committee. They would suggest measures on how to fight with the corona pandemic in its third wave. The committee will also suggest measures to streamline the ongoing vaccination drive.” Mohapatra also said that as per the cabinet decision, the state has floated a global tender to purchase 3.8 crore vaccine doses. “If the bidding is successful, the state will get all the vaccines by May 28,” he said. The other eminent doctors of the advisory committee are Dr Subrat Acharya, Prof Dutteswara Hota, Prof M.R. Patnaik, Prof E. Venkateswar Rao, Dr Sanghamitra Pati and Dr Ajaya Parida. Director, Directorate of Medical Education and Training (DMET) Dr C.B.K. Mohanty will act as convener of the advisory committee. Sources revealed that the Odisha government would go for extension of the lockdown further which ends on May 19 as there is no sign of decline of corona cases in the state. Meanwhile, the number of Covid cases in Odisha surpassed 6.12 lakh marks on Sunday with report of another 11,713 fresh cases. So far 2,313 people have succumbed to the disease. Following complaints about the poor treatment being provided to corona patients in hospitals, resulting in the rise in death cases, the state health department has constituted four special squads that would inspect private hospitals and examine the number of ICU beds available. “It would also examine whether patients who need ICU beds are being provided the beds in time or not,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
