18-05-2021||India||Never exported vaccines at the cost of Indians, says Serum Institute||Serum Institute of India on Tuesday said it has never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remains committed to support the vaccination drive in the country. In the past few days, there has been an intense discussion on the decision of the government and Indian vaccine manufacturers, including Serum Institute of India (SII) to export vaccines, the company said in a statement. Giving the background on the decision to export vaccines, SII said, "In January 2021, we had a large stockpile of vaccine doses. Our vaccination drive had started successfully and the number of daily cases being recorded were at an all-time low." Around the same time, many other countries in the world were facing an acute crisis and were in desperate need of help. The Indian government extended support wherever possible during this period, it added. "Today, it is this reciprocity, where India has helped other countries with the supply of HCQ and vaccine exports, that has in turn led to support from other countries," SII said. This pandemic is not limited by geographic or political boundaries. "We will not be safe till everyone globally is able to defeat this virus at a global scale. Further, as part of our global alliances, we also had commitments to COVAX, so that they could distribute the vaccines globally to end the pandemic," it added. Another important factor that people do not tend to realise is that India is among the two most populous countries in the world, and a vaccination drive for such a large population cannot be completed within 2-3 months, as there are several factors and challenges involved, SII said. "SII has delivered more than 200 million doses, even though we received EUA (emergency use authorisation) two months after the US pharma companies, " it added. “Serum continues to scale up manufacturing and prioritise India. It also hopes to start delivering to COVAX and other countries by the end of this year,” the statement said. "We would like to reiterate that we have never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remain committed to do everything we can in support of the vaccination drive in the country," it said. SII has been working with the government tirelessly to do its best for humanity and will continue in the same spirit, it added. "This is the time for all of us to unite and work together to defeat the pandemic," SII said. On Sunday, Congress leaders led by Rahul Gandhi had put up a poster critical of the Prime Minister over Covid vaccine export as their Twitter profile picture and dared the government to arrest them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||Congress accuses BJP of creating ‘fake’ Covid toolkit to defame it||The Congress on Tuesday accused the BJP of propagating a "fake toolkit" to defame it and said it would lodge a police complaint against the ruling party chief JP Nadda and its spokesperson Sambit Patra. The Opposition party alleged on its Twitter handle that instead of helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP is stooping to low-level politics. "BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' on 'Covid-19 mismanagement' and attributing it to the AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against JP Nadda and Sambit Patra," Congress' research cell head Rajeev Gowda said on Twitter. "When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries," he also alleged. The opposition party was reacting after the BJP alleged that the Congress wants to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling the new strain of the coronavirus the "India strain" or the "Modi strain". Citing a purported Congress toolkit, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra said according to the document, it is clear that the Congress extending help to the needy during the pandemic is "more of a public relations exercise with the help of friendly journalists and influencers than a soulful endeavour". However, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate at a virtual press conference claimed that there is no such document as shown by the BJP spokesperson and the party was initiating legal action. The party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Soon after the BJP forged the 'fake toolkit', all its 'fake devotees' and 'friends in the media' came out to set the agenda." "We are going to file a case against BJP President JP Nadda and his spokespersons, but the truth about their misdeeds will not be left hidden," he said. Shrinate alleged that the government's priorities are misplaced as it was resorting to such "tactics" instead of helping the Covid affected. "We never expected that the national spokesperson of the BJP would resort to such blatant lies," she said. Meanwhile, Nadda hit out at the Congress, alleging that the opposition party is a "master" at "dividing society and spewing venom against others". "India is seeing the Congress' antics, while the nation is fighting Covid-19. I would urge Congress to go beyond 'Toolkit Models' and do something constructive," the BJP chief tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||Kejriwal announces Rs 50,000 ex gratia to families who lost member to Covid||The Delhi government will provide Rs 50,000 ex gratia to each family that has lost a member to Covid-19, besides a monthly assistance of Rs 2,500 if the deceased was an earning member, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. He also said that the children who have lost both parents, or single parent, due to Covid-19 will also be provided a monthly assistance of Rs 2,500 up to the age of 25 years. Also, the government will take care of their education, he said. "Many children have lost both parents because of Covid... such children should not think of themselves as lonely and helpless. I stand with them all the time," Kejriwal said in a brief televised statement. All these announcements will be implemented after they are approved by the Delhi Cabinet, he said. The chief minister also said that all 72 lakh ration card holders in the city will be provided free 10 Kg ration this month, half of which will be provided by the ruling AAP government and the rest by a central government scheme. The Chief Minister said rations will be given without proof of low income, as is normally the case. The poor and needy even without ration card will be provided free ration, he added. "Each month five kg ration is given at a subsidised rate. But this month they (poor families) will get it free. Over and above this another five kg is being given under PM's schemes... so a total of 10 kg of ration will be given free this time," he said. "Not everyone has a ration card and they can't be issued at such short notice... so, in good faith whoever says they need free ration, because they are poor, will get it," he added. Delhi has been particularly hard hit by the second wave of coronavirus infections and deaths, with daily new cases peaking at nearly 30,000 a few weeks ago. The numbers have slowed since. The flood of new cases drove the city's active caseload from below 10,000 on April 1 to near one lakh by the end of the month. As of Tuesday evening that figure is around 56,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||KK Shailaja, praised for her work in fighting Covid, dropped from Kerala cabinet||Kerala Health Minister in the outgoing Assembly, K K Shailaja, did not find a place in the new cabinet on Tuesday, which has 11 new faces from the CPI (M). Shailaja was praised internationally last year for her exceptional work in fighting Covid-19 in Kerala. CPI(M) veteranPinarayi Vijayan was on the other hand elected its Parliamentary party leader, paving the way for his successive stint as Chief Minister of Kerala. The state committee of the Marxist party, which met at its headquarters AKG Centre at Thiruvananthapuram elected Vijayan to lead the party, a CPI(M) statement said. The party state committee, chaired by senior leader Elamaram Kareem, decided to entrust Shailaja with the position of party whip, the statement added. The Kerala cabinet, which won the elections for the second year in a historic stint, will have a new look altogether, with Vijayan as the only old face. "No one from the earlier LDF ministry is part of the new ministry except for the Chief Minister. This is our party decision. Only our party has the courage to do so. Many top performers were also not allowed to contest elections. We want new faces," AN Shamsheer, a CPM MLA, was quoted by NDTV as saying. Those picked for the new cabinet are MV Govindan, K Radhakrishnan, KN Balagopal, P Rajeev, VN Vasavan, Saji Cherian, V Sivankutty, Mohd Riyas, Dr R Bindu, Veena George and V Abdul Rahman, as per a report by NDTV. Shailaja’s exclusion from the cabinet drew flak on social media. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “Sorry to see Shailaja Teacher leave the Kerala cabinet. Aside from her reputed competence and efficiency, I always found her helpful, responsive and accessible as Health Minister, especially during the #Covid crisis. She will be missed.” Shailaja had won in the Assembly elections by a huge margin of over 60,000 votes from Mattannur, her constituency and hometown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||Congress wants to tarnish image of India, PM, alleges BJP||The BJP hit out at the Congress on Tuesday over an alleged toolkit of the opposition party, saying it wants to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling the new strain of the coronavirus the "India strain" or the "Modi strain". Citing the toolkit, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra said according to the document, it is clear that the Congress extending help to the needy during the pandemic is "more of a public relations exercise with the help of friendly journalists and influencers than a soulful endeavour". In accordance with the agenda of the toolkit, the Congress has instructed its social media volunteers to call the new mutant strain of COVID-19 the "Modi strain" or the "India strain", Patra claimed in a tweet. Taking on the Congress over its alleged toolkit, BJP president JP Nadda said dividing the society and "spewing venom against others. Congress is a master at this". "India is seeing Congress' antics, while the nation is fighting COVID-19. I would urge Congress to go beyond 'Toolkit Models' and do something constructive," he said in a tweet. Echoing similar sentiments, Union minister Smriti Irani said the country is at war with the coronavirus. "I can understand the opposition would want to attack the government. But to singularly commercialise it as a political opportunity and deal in death; I never imagined Congress was capable of such a low," she wrote on Twitter. Attacking Gandhi over the toolkit, Patra alleged that the Congress leader wants to use the pandemic to destroy the image of Modi. "Congress workers instructed to call the mutant strain as Modi strain," he wrote on Twitter. The BJP spokesperson alleged that no stone has been left unturned to tarnish India's image with the help of foreign journalists. The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that the new strain of the coronavirus would not be named after India, but the Congress wants to do so. The opposition party is ready to tarnish the country's image for its politics, Patra said. He further alleged that the "Congress toolkit" has also suggested calling the Kumbh Mela the "Super Spreader Kumbh". However, the Congress denied the allegation. "BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' on 'COVID-19 mismanagement' and attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against BJP chief JP Nadda and Sambit Patra. When our country is devastated by COVID, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries," the research department chief of the opposition party, Rajeev Gowda, said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||CBSE extends deadline till June 30 for schools to tabulate marks for class 10||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday extended the deadline up to June 30 for schools to tabulate class 10 marks and submit it to the board, according to officials. The board had earlier announced that the entire exercise of tabulation of marks will be completed by June 11 and the result will be declared by June 20. The decision has been taken in view of the lockdown in several states due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation and to ensure safety of teachers and staff members. "CBSE accords highest priority to safety and health of teachers. Keeping in view the situation of pandemic, lockdown in states and safety of teachers and other staff members of affiliated schools, the board has decided to extend the dates," said Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations, CBSE. "The marks will have to be submitted to the board by June 30. For rest of the activities, the result committees can make their own schedule based on the scheme provided by CBSE, " he added. The CBSE had earlier this month announced a policy for tabulation of marks for class 10 board exams which have been cancelled in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the country. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. The board had asked schools to form a result committee consisting of principal and seven teachers for finalising esults. Five teachers from the school should be from Mathematics, Social Science, Science and two languages, and two teachers from neighbouring schools should be co-opted by the school as the external members of the committee. "The schools will form eight-member result committees by May 5. The provision for school-wise distribution of marks as well as finalisation of rationale document will happen by May 10. For candidates who have not appeared in enough tests through the year, the schools will conduct online or telephonic assessment for them by May 15 and will have to finalise the result by May 25," Bhardwaj had then said. The CBSE had on April 14 cancelled class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in COVID-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The board exams are usually conducted in February-March. However, the board had decided to conduct them in May-June this year due to the pandemic situation. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes are again being suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae batters parts of Gujarat, seven deaths reported till now||At least seven people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae battered parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees, and damaging several houses and roads, officials said on Tuesday. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and over 1,000 poles uprooted due to the cyclonic storm, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It crossed the Gujarat coast as an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" and gradually weakened. On Tuesday morning, it lay over the Saurashtra region near Amreli as a "severe severe cyclonic storm," and was likely to weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm by the afternoon, the IMD said in its latest bulletin. The wind intensity reduced to 105-115 kmph gusting to 125 kmph, as the cyclone lay 15 km east-northeast of Amreli, around 125 km south-southwest of Surendranagar, and 205 km southwest of Ahmedabad, as per the IMD bulletin at 10.30 am. Even as the cyclonic intensity weakened, it left behind a trail of destruction, with at least seven people losing their lives - three in Bhavnagar, and one each in Rajkot, Patan, Amreli and Valsad, officials said. An official of the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) confirmed three casualties due to the cyclone, one each from Rajkot, Valsad and Bhavnagar. An electric pole fell on a woman while she was sleeping in Patan town late Monday night amid strong wind, an official from Patan A-division police station said. A woman and her daughter were killed when the wall of their house collapsed at Badeli village in Palitana taluka of Bhavnagar, a local administration official said. In another incident, a girl died after the roof of their house collapsed on four members of the family at Rajula in Amreli district on Monday night, police said. Chief Minister Rupani told reporters in Gandhinagar that 16,500 houses, mostly thatched ones, were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and 1,081 poles, mainly of electric supply, were uprooted due to the cyclone. Also, 159 roads were damaged and 196 blocked due to different reasons, he said, adding that 45 of them were so far cleared for traffic movement. There was power outage in 2,437 villages and the supply has been restored in 484 villages till now, he said. Rupani said the state government's major concern was uninterrupted treatment of COVID-19 patients in around 1,400 hospitals across the state. Out of these facilities, 16 faced power outage due to the cyclone. The electric supply was restored in 12 of them, while the remaining four were operating on backup power generators, he said. The production of medical oxygen at a plant in Bhavnagar was disrupted due to the cyclonic storm, but the supply continued. from the buffer stock, he informed. According to the IMD, most places of Gujarat and Saurashtra meteorological regions of the state are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Tuesday, with heavy to very rainfall and extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places in these areas. The wind speed is likely to decrease during the day, it said, adding that "astronomical high" tidal waves would continue to inundate coastal areas, it said. As many as 35 talukas received more than one inch of rainfall, with Bagasara taluka receiving 9 inches of rainfall, Gir Gadhada-8 inches, Una-8 inches, Savarkundla-7 inches and Amreli-5 inches downpour. Rajula, Khamba, and Babra talukas also received 5 inches of rainfall each, the CM said. "The administration remains on standby mode and is working to clear roads, restore power and water supplies. The animal husbandry department is taking care of the cattle by shifting them to safer places," Rupani said. The state government had shifted over two lakh people to safer locations before the cyclone hit the Gujarat coast. The cyclone hit the coast between Diu and Una around 9 pm on Monday and landfall ended around midnight, the IMD said. The landfall process started with the entry of the "forward sector of the eye of the cyclone" into the land near the Union Territory of Diu with a wind speed of between 150 and 175 km per hour, IMD officials said. Landfall is the storm moving over the land after its intensification in the ocean (heat source). A cyclone is said to make landfall when the centre of the storm (eye) moves across the coast. The landfall brings with it high-speed winds, severe storm surge and torrential downpour. The storm usually weakens rapidly after the landfall as the ocean heat and moisture that fuel it are no longer available. The place above which the eye of a cyclone crosses is designated as the place of landfall, an official said. A major cyclone in Gujarat on June 9, 1998, had brought widespread death and destruction in its wake, particularly in the port town of Kandla. While official figures had then put the death toll at 1,173, adding 1,774 went missing, media reports, eyewitness and volunteer accounts suggested this was grossly an understatement. Modi to visit state tomorrow Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to personally review the situation there and the damage wrought by cyclone Tauktae, government sources said. He will leave Delhi at around 9:30 AM and land at Bhavnagar from where he will proceed for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, they said. Modi will also hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad. After reviewing the situation, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters that despite such a high-intensity cyclone hitting the state, his government has managed to prevent any major loss to life or property as over two lakh people were already shifted to safer places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-05-2021||India||Live-in-relationships morally, socially unacceptable, says Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has said a live-in-relationship is morally and socially unacceptable while dismissing a petition filed by a runaway couple seeking protection. Petitioners Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22) in the petition had stated that they were residing together and intended to get married shortly. They had apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari's parents. "As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed. The petition stands dismissed accordingly," Justice H S Madaan said in his May 11 order. According to petitioner's counsel J S Thakur, Singh and Kumari were living together in Tarn Taran district. He said Kumari's parents, who are in Ludhiana, did not approve of their relationship. The couple could not get married as Kumari's documents, which have details of her age, were in possession of her family, Thakur added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Continuous efforts being made to ramp up Covid vaccine supply, says Modi||Describing state and district officials as "field commanders" in the fight against COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said localised containment zones, aggressive testing and sharing correct and complete information with people are weapons to defeat the pandemic. Interacting with them at a meeting, which was attended by district magistrates from 46 districts across nine states, through video-conferencing, Modi said they were free to innovate to suit their local requirements and asked them to share their feedback about any change in policy without any inhibition. Asserting that vaccination is a strong way to fight COVID, Modi said myths about it have to be collectively rooted out. He added that continuous efforts are being made to ramp up COVID vaccine supply in a big way, asserting that attempts are on to provide states 15-day advance schedule of the programme as it will allow them to prepare accordingly. Testing, tracking, treatment and COVID appropriate behaviour are some of the key things required to check the spread of the virus, Modi said. Hailing officials, the prime minister said many of them worked despite being COVID positive while some lost their family members but they gave duty foremost priority. He said a lot of attention has to be paid to rural and remote areas during the second wave of the pandemic. Several chief ministers besides Home Minister Amit Shah also attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Former IMA president dies of Covid||Padma Shri awardee and eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal has died of COVID-19, a statement posted on his Twitter handle said. Aggarwal (62), the former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here and was on ventilator support since last week. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal described his death as a "setback for the whole nation". "Passing away of Dr. KK Aggarwal is a setback for the whole nation. He acted all his life for the health rights of common people especially poor, deprived n marginalized. A great human being. RIP! (sic)," he wrote on Twitter. According to the statement posted on Twitter, Aggarwal passed away at 11.30 pm on Monday after a "lengthy battle with COVID-19". "Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated and not mourned," the statement said. Aggarwal posted videos raising awareness about the deadly virus on his Twitter handle. Even while he was hospitalised, his team at the Heart Care Foundation of India kept uploading videos about COVID-19. In January, Aggarwal's banter with his wife during a live session on a social media platform had left netizens in splits. In the video, Aggarwal's wife was heard scolding him for going to take the anti-COVID vaccine shot alone and not taking her along. The former IMA president is survived by wife Dr Veena Agarwal, son Nilesh and daughter Naina. He had received the Padma Shri, the country's fourth-highest civilian honour, in 2010. He was also honoured with the Dr B C Roy Award. Aggarwal's name was mentioned in the Limca Book of Records for training the maximum number of people in the lifesaving technique of hands-only CPR at one go. Aggarwal was born in Delhi on September 5, 1958. He completed his MBBS from MGIMS, Sevagram under the Nagpur University, where he was adjudged the best graduate in 1979. The IMA said his demise was "an unexpected and tragic loss" to it. "Dr. K. K. Aggarwal was a true legend was iconic figure in mass education and awareness. He served millions of lives and his services proved a guiding torch to all of us even during the pandemic... IMA is poorer by the loss," it said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Google rolls out News Showcase in India||Google on Tuesday said it is rolling out its News Showcase in India with 30 news organisations, a move aimed at incentivising and supporting publishers in the country to curate high-quality content on Google's News and Discover platforms. The tech giant is also stepping up its efforts to strengthen digital skills in newsrooms and journalism schools across India and will train 50,000 journalists and journalism students over the next three years. "We are launching News Showcase now to help publishers reach people with trustworthy news, especially in this critical time with the COVID crisis continuing. News Showcase panels highlight the articles publishers want, allow them to give additional context about a story, so audiences can better understand what's going on around them," Google Vice President (Product Management) Brad Bender said. He added that these news panels ensure branding, and drive all traffic back to the website of the publishers that helps deepen the relationship with readers. "We are also paying publishers for access to paywalled content to provide users free access to select content, enabling people to try content that they may not have otherwise seen on their journey to becoming a subscriber," he added. Google News Showcase is rolling out in India with 30 news publishers including national, regional and local news organisations. Discussions are underway with more news partners to further expand the offering. This builds on News Showcase deals signed by 700 news publications in more than a dozen countries, including Germany, Brazil, Canada, France, Japan, the UK, Australia, Czechia, Italy and Argentina. Bender said Google sends 24 billion visits to news websites globally every month, helping people discover content via Google Search and also helps publishers monetise their platforms through a suite of products. News has been a deep focus and commitment for Google and the company has been helping a large number of journalists and media players to reach out to customers, Google Country Head and Vice President, India Sanjay Gupta said. Gupta noted that while consumption of news across print, television and digital is growing, there are changing consumer habits wherein more young consumers are leveraging reach of digital to access news and that this poses two significant challenges - branding and monetisation. "We were very keen to get Showcase to India... When you solve for India, you need to solve for languages in a very significant way and that's one capability that the product team was developing to help launch... Over the last 8-9 months, we spent a lot of time talking to each one of the publisher partners to see how we can both enable them and work with them," he said. Content from Google's Indian publisher partners in English and Hindi will begin to appear in dedicated News Showcase panels in Google News and on Discover, and additional Indic languages will follow later. Google Program Manager Tanuja Gupta stated that Google has not changed any of the ways that stories appear in the user's feed. "...We have not artificially injected ranking or anything. We have swapped out regular articles with these premium content panels, making the brands more noticeable... Users can click on them and read other articles from publishers," she added. Google is also expanding its efforts under Google News Initiative (GNI) efforts in India. Over the next three years, with increased support from the News Lab, the company intends to train 50,000 journalists and journalism students. "We'll focus on digital tools to aid verification and combat misinformation online, and we'll expand our programs to connect Indian journalists and fact-checkers. Second, we are introducing several new programmes to help small and mid-sized publications achieve financial sustainability all part of the GNI Digital Growth Program," Gupta said. The programme has already trained executives at 100 Indian news organisations since its launch last year. The new initiatives include new business training workshops, delivered virtually, to help news organisations address the needs of their audiences, grow their readership and deepen reader engagement. These workshops will be available for free to Indian publishers, alongside Google's existing workshops to support business success for news organisations. The GNI Advertising Lab will include training sessions and implementation support to help more than 800 small and mid-sized Indian news organizations grow their digital ad revenue, while the GNI Transformation Lab is a more comprehensive programme for 20 local small and mid-sized Indian news organizations to help them succeed online. Gupta said these new and expanded programs build on years of investment in India. In 2018, Google had launched the GNI India Training Network in partnership with BoomLive, DataLeads and Internews. To date, it has trained over 25,000 Indian journalists in 10 languages, touching more than 1,000 news organisations and more than 700 universities. In response to Covid-19, the company has provided financial support to 228 news organisations in India through the GNI Journalism Emergency Relief Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Hope rides on the wings of Tagore’s words||To mark the 160th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, The Bengal, in association with Shree Cement, presented a virtual programme called “Jiboner Joygan” (Triumph of Life over Death) on their Facebook page. Anandabazar.com and The Telegraph Online were the exclusive media partners for this event. Goutam Ghose, veteran filmmaker and working president of The Bengal, opened the proceedings with a call to follow the philosophy and the humanism of Tagore. Swarnava Roy, the moderator for the evening, then turned to poet Joy Goswami, who read out two poems by Shankha Ghosh -- whom Bengali literature lost to Covid last month -- that were a homage to the Bard. Goswami then recited one of his own poems dedicated to Tagore and the ritual of Rabindra Jayanti celebrations. Next, professor Biswajit Roy read out a short passage from Tagore’s “Ruddha Griho”, celebrating life. Pranati Thakur recited poems from his anthologies. Lopamudra Mitra and Jayati Chakraborty sang Tagore songs that reflected his sense of optimism. Elocutionists Urmimala Basu and Bratati Bandyopadhyay recited poems by Tagore showcasing the triumph of light over darkness. Ritapa Bhattacharya and Priyam Mukherjee joined the virtual meet from Santiniketan, Gurudev’s abode. Rabindrasangeet exponent Adity Mohsin tuned in from Bangladesh. After all, tribute was being paid on this auspicious day to the creator of the National Anthems for both India and Bangladesh. Veteran theatre personality Soumitra Mitra presented two pieces from Rabindranath’s verse -- “Bidushak” and “Ohe ontorotomo” -- mirroring our present insecurities. Eminent stage actor Debshankar Haldar shared Tagore’s letters on the relentless quest of a better world. Mohan Singh’s recital of “Udiye dhoja ogrobedhi rothe” underlined the indomitable spirit of human nature. Elocutionist Sumantra Sengupta shared how Tagore’s literary creations inspired freedom fighters. Amidst the raging pandemic, the programme was hailed by viewers near and far, joining through Facebook Live, as it injected some much-needed positivity riding on the wings of Tagore’s immortal words. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Daily Covid toll touches record high, 4,329 patients succumb to the virus in 24 hours||India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 2,78,719 with a record 4,329 fresh fatalities, while the single day rise in coronavirus cases stood at 2.63 lakh, the lowest in 28 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country reported a total of 2,63,533 new cases in a span of 24 hours, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,52,28,996, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 2,59,170 cases were reported in a span of 24 hours on April 20. The active cases further reduced to 33,53,765 comprising 13.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 85.60 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,15,96,512, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,82,92,881 samples have been tested up to May 17 with 18,69,223 samples being tested on Monday. The 4,329 new fatalities include 1,000 from Maharashtra, 476 from Karnataka, 340 from Delhi, 335 from Tamil Nadu, 271 from Uttar Pradesh, 223 from Uttarakhand, 191 from Punjab, 157 from Rajasthan, 149 from Chhattisgarh, 147 from West Bengal, 114 from Haryana and 109 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 2,78,719 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 82,486 from Maharashtra, 22,313 from Karnataka, 21,846 from Delhi, 18,005 from Tamil Nadu, 17,817 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,431 from West Bengal, 12,086 from Punjab and 11,883 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Indians receiving Covishield run 'tiny risk' of clotting or bleeding ||About six people in 10 million who receive Covishield in India risk developing bleeding or clotting, an expert panel said on Monday, asserting the vaccine’s benefits far outweigh this “minuscule risk”. The panel also said that no suspected thromboembolic events (clots forming in blood vessels, breaking loose and blocking other vessels) had been observed after the administration of Covaxin, the other vaccine currently used in the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign. The Union health ministry said the national AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) committee had observed a rate of 0.61 cases of thromboembolic events per million doses. However, it also said that 26 suspected thromboembolic events had been observed in 68,650,819 Covishield doses administered until April 3, which comes to 0.38 cases per million doses. Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the panel, told The Telegraph he would clarify the mismatch between the two numbers on Tuesday. “There is no error, no discrepancy,” he said. The health ministry said that AEFI data from across India had shown a “very minuscule but definitive risk” of thromboembolic events from Covishield vaccination. Doctors and health officials have reaffirmed that the benefits of the vaccine — the protection it offers from severe Covid-19 — far outweigh the tiny observed risk. This is especially so because patients who develop Covid-19 are at high risk of death from clotting complications caused by the disease itself. The Indian figure of 0.61 cases of thromboembolic events per million doses is much lower than the 4 cases per million doses reported by Britain’s regulatory authority and 10 events per million doses observed in Germany, the ministry said. Earlier medical studies had found that the risk of thromboembolic events was almost 70 per cent lower in people of South Asian and Southeast Asian descent compared with populations of European descent. The National AEFI panel said it had completed “an in-depth review” of 498 serious and severe events in vaccinated people, among which 26 were suspected thromboembolic events. The panel said a digital platform tracking AEFIs had recorded over 23,000 adverse events among the 75 million vaccine doses administered in India until April 3, of which around 700 (9.3 per million doses) were classified as “serious or severe”. The AEFI panel has not specified the number of deaths among these 700 events. Vaccine recipients from several cities have, however, said they are unaware of how to report AEFIs. A 21-year-old man in Delhi who had received Covishield on May 14, for instance, developed high fever and transient numbness in one hand and fingers on May 15 evening. He recovered a short while after the family consulted doctors on the phone. But until Monday, the family had not been able to report the AEFI to health authorities. “The AEFI reporting system appears to be a farce,” the boy’s mother told The Telegraph on Monday. The mother had posted a tweet on May 15, tagging the health ministry, the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Serum Institute, asking for contact numbers or email addresses to report the AEFI. “Two days have gone by, no reply yet,” she said on Monday. Medical experts say a strong AEFI reporting system is critical for analysis. While the health ministry has directed all vaccination centres to inform recipients about telephone numbers where they could call if any AEFI emerged after the mandatory 30-minute waiting period, many recipients remain unaware of this reporting system. The health ministry said it was “separately issuing advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries” to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms that occur within 20 days after Covid-19 vaccination and report to their vaccination centre. The suspect symptoms include pain in the chest; pain in the limbs or on pressing the limbs; swelling in the limbs; multiple, pinhead-sized red spots or bruising of skin in an area beyond the injection site; persistent abdominal pain with or without vomiting; seizures in the absence of previous history of seizures; severe or persistent headache; weakness or paralysis of the limbs; persistent vomiting; blurred vision or a change in mental status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Palestine-Israel conflict: India reiterates its 'unwavering commitment to the two-State solution'||India on Sunday supported “the just Palestinian cause’’ and reiterated its “unwavering commitment to the two-State solution’’ in a UN Security Council meeting on the situation in West Asia much to the disappointment of the Right-wing back home which had been voicing solidarity with Israel as tensions escalated last week in the Levant. India’s nuanced statement reflects the balancing act that New Delhi has to do to maintain its historic ties with Palestine and nurture its newer but deepening relationship with Israel. The statement refers to the trigger of this latest crisis — the eviction of some Arab families by Israel from East Jerusalem — condemns the “indiscriminate rocket firings’’ from Gaza, calls Israel’s bombings on Palestinian territory as “retaliatory’’, and makes no mention of East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. In this open meeting of the UNSC, India’s permanent representative at the United Nations in New York, T.S. Tirumurti, iterated what he had said in the closed meetings on the issue over the past week. “In both these meetings, we had expressed our deep concern over violence in Jerusalem, especially on Haram Al-Sharif/Temple Mount during the holy month of Ramadan, and about the possible eviction process in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhood in East Jerusalem, an area which is part of an arrangement facilitated by the UN,’’ he said. While acknowledging Israeli actions in East Jerusalem to evict Palestinians from Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan as part of its project of “systemic Judaisation’’ of the area as the trigger, India clearly condemns the rocket firings from Gaza. “The indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel, which we condemn, and the retaliatory strikes into Gaza, have caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths, including women and children”, clearly accepting Israel’s contention that it is acting in self-defence. Calling for “immediate de-escalation’’, India has urged both sides to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions, and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhood. Further, according to India, last week’s incidents have once again underscored the need for immediate resumption of dialogue between the Israel and Palestinian authorities. “The absence of direct and meaningful negotiations between the parties is widening the trust deficit between the parties. This will only increase the chances for similar escalation in future. We believe that every effort should be made to create conducive conditions for resumption of talks between Israel and Palestine,’’ Tirumurti said. Former diplomat Talmiz Ahmad, however, felt that the statement fell short on various counts and that India lost the opportunity to assert its considered and principled position of yore in the UNSC of which New Delhi is currently a non-permanent member. “India failed to assert the principled position it has held till 2015 for a sovereign independent state of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital,’’ he said. This, according to Ahmad, is symptomatic of a larger shift in India’s foreign policy under the Narendra Modi government; particularly in its second term. “We do not see India taking principled positions on regional or global issues. We have become insular, and more interested in pandering to domestic politics.’’ While batting for maintaining status quo in East Jerusalem despite continuing with the silence on it being made the capital of the future Palestinian state, India also sought to underscore its own links with Jerusalem as a whole. “It also houses the Al Zawiyya Al Hindiyya — The Indian Hospice, which is a historic place associated with a great Indian Sufi saint Baba Farid and located inside the Old City. India has restored this Indian Hospice. The historic status quo at the holy places of Jerusalem, including the Haram Al-Sharif/Temple Mount, must be respected,’’ Tirumurti said. He also made a reference to the death of an Indian caregiver working in Israel, Soumya Santhosh, in the rocket fire in Ashkelon early last week. The Right-wing in India had sought to make political capital of her death. On Sunday, beleaguered Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted out a thank you message to 25 countries “for resolutely standing with and supporting our right to self defence against terrorist attacks’’. He named the countries by including their flags, and India was not among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Construction of chariots for  Lord Jagannath and his siblings begins in Puri||Work for construction of the three chariots of Lord Jagannath and his siblings began in Puri on Saturday coinciding with Akshay Tritiya. However, the Rath Yatra scheduled to be held on July 12, will be organised without devotees for the second consecutive year in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “It has almost been finalised not to hold the Rath Yatra in a big way. We had enough lessons from the recently organised Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. We have seen people dying helplessly and their bodies are floating in the Ganga. “Last year we had managed to stop the explosion of corona(virus) cases by not allowing devotees to participate in the Rath Yatra. This year the same practice will be followed. We had even informed the Supreme Court last year how the Rath Yatra was organised without the participation of devotees,” said a senior state government official. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has decided to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to all the servitors who are going to be involved in the Rath Yatra. All the servitors above the age of 18 will be administered vaccine. “Those who are willing to participate in the Rath Yatra and all the rituals relating to it, will be kept in isolation. A list of the servitors will be prepared. An official announcement to this effect would be made soon,” an SJTA official said. So far 2,294 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and six lakh people have been affected by the pandemic and millions have lost their livelihood. After the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic last year, Odisha had decided not to hold the Rath Yatra. Later the Supreme Court issued an order not to hold the festival as the congregation of people in Puri would aggravate the crisis and help spread Covid-19. Following pressure from devotees across the globe, the state government had appealed to the apex court to reconsider its decision of prohibiting the Rath Yatra and pleaded that it would organise the festival without devotees. Later the Supreme Court gave its nod for the Rath Yatra with a set of guidelines demanding a compliance report from the state on the issue. The Rath Yatra was then organised with the support of only the servitors of the Shree Jagannath temple. This time, around 200 carpenters will be involved in the construction of the three chariots — Nandighosh (of Lord Jagannath), Darpadalan (of Goddess Subhadra) and Taladwaja (of Lord Balabhadra). The place where the chariots are being constructed in front of the temple has been barricaded and no devotees are allowed there. “On a priority basis, we will vaccinate all those involved in the construction work. At this difficult time they are doing their job. We will give them almost double the normal wages. We need to ensure all the rituals of the Lord go smoothly,” SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar told reporters on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Groups urge Maharashtra govt to push for bail for the 15 undertrials||Civil society groups have urged the Maharashtra government to push for bail for the 15 undertrials in the Elgar Parishad case and hospitalisation of activist Father Stan Swamy, who is suffering from Parkinson’s disease. The pleas come days after jailed Delhi University professor Hany Babu M.T. was transferred from a Navi Mumbai prison to a Mumbai hospital with Covid-19 and an acute eye infection after repeated re¬ quests by his family. Fifteen academics, activists, artistes and lawyers, including Hany Babu and Fr Stan, are in judicial custody in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Chargesheets have been filed but the trial is yet to begin. Some have been behind the bars for more than two years as bail is rare for those booked with terror charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state home minister Dilip Walse Patil, Mumbai-based NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) listed the health ailments of the 15 detainees, “which warrants their immediate release on temporary bail”. “With the absence of testing in prisons, in fact with RT-PCR tests being denied to the prisoners, there is a gross violation of the basic right to dignified life in Maharashtra. Now, in addition to the absence of testing, there is Covid-19 spread, leading to the possibility of threat to their lives. With no trial in sight, they face the possibility of losing their lives,” the CJP said. Citing several court judgments, the CJP reiterated the demands made by the kin of the accused last week that the state government recommend their release on interim bail to high-power committees mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons. Civil rights coalition Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha wrote to Patil saying: “On May 14, Stan called up his colleague and shared that he was unwell. For the first time since his arrest, he said he was feeling very weak and fragile. Following that, he was too weak even to speak on the phone and his condition had to be described by others. Stan has fever, cough and a running stomach. He was given antibiotics by an ayurvedic doctor at the jail. The medicines did not help much. He is yet to be tested for Covid. He has also not yet received his first vaccine shot. There are reports of rising Covid cases in Taloja jail. In this situation, Stan should immediately be shifted to a good hospital and given adequate medical treatment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||ADR seeks collegium system of appointing election commissioners||Civil liberties organisation Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) on Monday moved the Supreme Court seeking a collegium system of appointing the Chief Election Commissioner/election commissioners to ensure their independence, as it said the present appointment system controlled by the government was unconstitutional. In a writ petition filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, the ADR has challenged the constitutional validity of the practice of the Centre appointing the members to the Election Commission as being “…violative of Articles 14 (right to equality) and 324 (2) and basic features of the Constitution”. Article 324(2) of the Constitution of India states: The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix and the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President.” “Presently, the appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioner is done solely by the executive. The impugned practice is incompatible with Article 324(2) and is manifestly arbitrary…” the ADR said. Citing the reasons, it said: “Article 324(2) mandates Parliament to make a just, fair, and reasonable law. It is pertinent to mention that Dr B.R. Ambedkar introduced an amendment that the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner shall be made by the President ‘subject to any law made in that behalf by Parliament’ with the hope that in due course of time the Government will take an initiative to make fair, just and reasonable law for the appointment of the members of Election Commission so as to ensure its independence and integrity.” The petition said that democracy is a facet of the basic structure of the Constitution and in order to ensure free and fair elections and to maintain healthy democracy in our country, the Election Commission should be insulated from political and/or executive interference. The appointment of members of the Election Commission on the whims and fancies of the executive violates the very foundation on which it was created, thus, making the commission a branch of the executive, it said. Further, the Election Commission is not only responsible for conducting free and fair elections but it also renders a quasi-judicial function between the various political parties, including the ruling government and other parties, it added. In such circumstances the executive cannot be the sole participant in the appointment of members of the Election Commission as it gives unfettered discretion to the ruling party to choose someone whose loyalty to it is ensured and thereby renders the selection process vulnerable to manipulation. Thus, the aforesaid practice violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India and is incompatible with free and fair elections, the petition said. Hence, the petitioner sought a direction for constituting a neutral and independent collegium/selection committee to recommend the names for appointment on the vacant post of the members of the Election Commission on the lines of the recommendations of the Law Commission in its 255th report of March 2015; Second Administrative Reform Commission in its fourth report of January 2007; Dr Dinesh Goswami Committee in its report of May 1990; and Justice Tarkunde Committee in its report of 1975. “Pertinently, all the Committees and Commissions have recommended in similar lines for independent/neutral committees in order to strengthen the autonomy of Election Commission and to ensure their impartiality. However, the recommendations of the Committees and Commissions have not been implemented yet. “The inaction of the Respondent (Union government) in not making appropriate law for ensuring just, fair and reasonable selection process for the appointment of members of Election Commission since 1950 is unwarranted and thus, to ensure proper implementation of the rule of law, it is in the interest of justice to issue necessary directions/guidelines to fill the vacuum occurred on account of the aforesaid inaction till such time the legislature steps in to cover the gap or the executive discharges its role,” the ADR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||PIL filed to quash FIRs over Modi posters in Delhi||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Monday seeking the quashing of around 25 FIRs registered in the national capital against various persons for pasting posters on public places which were critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the floundering vaccination drive. Last week posters were found pasted on walls and boards across Delhi with the message: “Modiji humare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi, why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)?” Subsequently, Delhi police registered FIRs in connection with the posters under relevant sections of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, the Delhi Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code and arrested 25 people. The petition filed by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav on Monday pleaded that the registration of FIRs are in violation of several Supreme Court judgments on free speech and also the top court’s recent directions this month that no case should be registered by police against citizens for ventilating their grievance over Covid-19 situations on social media or other public domain. On April 30, the Supreme Court had warned police and other authorities of contempt proceedings if any restriction was put on citizens from airing their grievances on social media platforms relating to the Covid-19 crisis as the top court asserted that such free flow of information would rather help in tackling the crisis in a more effective manner. The court warned that any “clampdown” on such citizens’ expression of free speech, particularly during the troubled times, would invite contempt action against the authorities who will be liable for contempt proceeding entailing a punishment up to six months. The petitioner said that in the 2015 Shreya Singhal case, the apex court had quashed as “unconstitutional” Section 66A of the IT Act which made it an offence for sharing any information on social media. The court had held that any information shared on social media does not constitute any criminal offence, under the impugned section. The petition said: “…contrary to the above decision of this Hon’ble Court the authorities are registering FIR against the innocent persons over their hate speech against the Hon’ble PM with regard to his official functions over the second wave of Covid-19 crises and Government vaccine policies. “That the petitioner is… seeking the intervention of this Hon’ble Court into the 25 arrests in Delhi over posters against the Prime Minister on the vaccination Policy. At least 25 First Information Reports (FIR) have been registered in connection with posters that surfaced across the capital questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy in a sarcastic tone. “The petitioner herein is seeking quashing of FIR/complaint directing the Commissioner of Police, DGP, not to register any case/FIR in relation to Covid-19 posters/advertisement/brochures surfaced in the context of vaccinations…” According to media reports, the cases were registered against a 19-year old school dropout, a 30-year-old e-rickshaw driver and a 61-year-old maker of wooden frames, among others. The arrests across Delhi were made on complaints by police personnel. The FIRs have been lodged under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and those under the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act and the Epidemic Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Journalist thrashed by alleged members of Yogi militia in UP ||A television stringer who questioned a BJP lawmaker and a senior official about what he felt were delayed and inefficient Covid initiatives was thrashed by half-a-dozen men, allegedly members of a militia founded by Yogi Adityanath two decades ago. Videos from the site in Domariyaganj, Siddharthnagar district, appear to show a group led by a man wearing a saffron mask and a saffron scarf punch and slap Amin Farooqi while at least two policeman watch silently. A purported eyewitness claimed the attackers had acted at the behest of local MLA Raghvendra Pratap Singh of the BJP and sub-divisional magistrate Tribhuvan Prasad, the two men Amin had questioned. “After the attack, some policemen went to Amin’s home and brought him to Domariyaganj police station, where he was forced to sit on the floor for about three hours,” a local reporter said, seeking anonymity. “He was let off after being forced to sign a statement saying he had had a fight with fellow journalists.” Singh, the MLA, is state convener of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a militia founded by Adityanath at the turn of the century when he was an MP. Many cases of assault and rioting have been registered against the organisation over the years. Adityanath used to be vocal in the militia’s support but stopped mentioning it after becoming chief minister in 2017. Amin, a stringer with a local news channel, was covering the inauguration of a Covid unit at the Benwa community health centre in Domariyaganj on Sunday when he was attacked. “After the inauguration by health minister Jai Pratap Singh, reporters were talking to the MLA and the SDM. Amin asked them why the initiative had not been started earlier and why there was a vaccine shortage in Domariyaganj,” the purported eyewitness said. “Immediately, a man in a saffron mask and golden kurta pulled Amin by his shirt and took him away. Those accompanying him then started thrashing Amin.” A local reporter said the man in the saffron mask was Lavkush Ojha, a block-level BJP leader. “He is a political aide to Raghvendra. We saw him leave the place with the SDM after the beating of the journalist,” he said. Singh, the MLA, said: “I was busy discussing certain issues with the officials when I saw people fighting. I don’t know the reason.” Prasad said: “I had had an argument with the young man a few days ago over a news item. I had invited him to join the fight against the coronavirus.” He added: “On Sunday, while we were busy after the inauguration of a Level-2 hospital, a fight broke out between the journalists present for some reason.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||DMK Lok Sabha MP opposes SC, ST scholarship wind-up ||DMK Lok Sabha MP Ravi Kumar on Monday asked the Union government to desist from its move to discontinue a scholarship scheme meant for the girl students of public-funded schools belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) . A study by the government-run Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) has found little merit in the National Scheme for Incentives to Girls of Secondary Education (NSIGSE), making the ground for its discontinuation. The Union budget had already cut the scheme’s allocation to Rs 1 crore from Rs 110 crore in the pervious year. Kumar wrote a letter to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal against the move to wind up the scheme. The scheme provides a one-time scholarship of Rs 3,000 to Class IX girl students who are enrolled in government schools. The money can be withdrawn after the student turns 18, provided she has cleared Class X and is unmarried. The scheme was launched to ensure that SC/ST girls finished school and were not married off before they turned 18. “It is learnt that the IEG, which reviewed the implementation of the scheme in seven states, has submitted a report against the continuation of the scheme. It is a grave injustice to the SC/ST people. The dropout rate and early marriages are still rampant among the SC/STs. So the need is not discontinuation but more fund allocation. I earnestly request you to consider these facts and continue the scheme,” Kumar wrote. Ambedkarite scholars have also opposed the discontinuation of the scheme at a time children belonging to the poor and deprived sections of the society need more scholarships in view of the Covid-induced losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Supreme Court scan on Jagan critic ‘torture’ ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed a special medical board of the army hospital in Secunderabad to conduct the medical examination of YSR Congress Party MP Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju who was allegedly subjected to third-degree custodial torture under the draconian sedition charges for criticising Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai passed the directive after taking a prima facie view that the MP had suffered injuries despite having recently undergone a heart surgery. A critic of the chief minister, Raju had pleaded that he was picked up from his house in Hyderabad on May 14 and subjected to third-degree torture even as his own application before a special CBI court for cancelling the chief minister’s bail in a corruption case was to come up for hearing on May 17. “The honourable high court failed to notice that the arrest of the petitioner is nothing but personal vendetta of the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh as the petitioner had filed the application for cancellation of the bail and as such the arrest was effected to prevent the petitioner from pursuing the same,” Raju’s appeal in the apex court stated. “The high court failed to notice that the state police machinery is being misutilised by the chief minister to frame his political opponents in criminal cases and keep them in jail, so that they will not accuse him of being the person who had spent time in jail as an undertrial,” it added. Raju has approached the apex court after the Andhra Pradesh High Court declined his bail plea. The apex court, while listing the matter for further hearing on May 21, passed the following order: “…Considering the totality of the facts and circumstances ... and the injuries noticed in the medical report, we deem it proper to direct as under: ⚫ The petitioner shall forthwith be taken to the army hospital in Secunderabad for medical examination. The Y-category security, provided under orders of Delhi High Court, shall escort the petitioner only till the army hospital ⚫ The medical exam of the petitioner shall be conducted by the board of three doctors of the hospital to be constituted by the head of the army hospital ⚫ ...The petitioner shall be medically examined in the presence of a judicial officer, who may be nominated by the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court ⚫ The proceedings of medical examination of the petitioner shall be videographed and be submitted to the registrar-general of Telangana High Court in a sealed cover for being transmitted to this court ⚫ We direct that the petitioner shall be admitted in the army hospital and kept there for medical care until further orders, which shall be treated as judicial custody of the petitioner. The expenses, if any, for hospitalisation in the army hospital shall be born by the petitioner.” The apex court  directed the Andhra Pradesh chief secretary to carry out the order forthwith and ensure that  Raju is taken to and reaches the army hospital on Monday itself. “Let a copy of this order be sent by e-mail to the chief secretary, Andhra Pradesh, the registrar-general of the Telangana High Court as well as the Andhra Pradesh High Court and head of the army hospital for compliance,” the top court added. Meanwhile, two news channels — TV 5 and ABN News — have filed petitions in Supreme Court seeking quashing of the FIRs registered under the sedition law and various IPC offences against them by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The channels have pleaded that the FIRs were lodged against them for airing Raju’s critical views against the chief minister. The channels have pleaded that if the sedition law is invoked indiscriminately against media houses, it would have a “chilling effect” on the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Ashraf Sehrai's sons booked under UAPA for allegedly raising pro-azadi slogans||Top separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai’s two sons have been booked under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly raising pro-azadi slogans during the funeral of their father who died in detention on May 5. Sehrai’s sons Mujahid Sehrai and Rashid Sehrai were arrested from their Bulbulbagh Barzulla residence in Srinagar in the wee hours of Sunday, fuelling speculation that they were booked under the stringent Public Safety Act, which allows detention without trial. On Sunday, police denied reports they were booked under the PSA but official sources on Monday said they have been booked under the UAPA. A Srinagar lawyer said most detentions under the PSA have been traditionally overturned by the courts but getting bail under the UAPA was “very difficult”. Police in Kashmir are showing no let-up in their crackdown against all forms of dissent despite the raging pandemic. Nearly two dozen people, including an artist, were arrested this week for speaking against Israeli attacks on Palestine. The police registered a case under Section 13 of the UAPA after a video had surfaced showing some people raising slogans during the funeral of Sehrai, who was buried in Tekkipora-Sogam area of Kupwara on May 6. Police said they arrested two mourners Abdul Hay Khan and Altaf Ahmed Khan for questioning initially. Subsequently, both sons of Sehrai too were arrested, fuelling anger in the Valley. People’s Conference chairman Sajad Lone and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti condemned the arrests. Sehrai was the front-runner to succeed separatist hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Covid: 60 deaths a day in Goa ||Manohar Parrikar’s successor and BJP chief minister Pramod Sawant faces local dismay and national and global criticism over his state’s handling of the Covid second wave. Goa made it to CNN’s global headlines after its positivity rate touched 50 per cent, which means half of all its Covid tests confirmed an infection. Lack of medical oxygen and a spate of deaths led to more adverse publicity on national television. Besides, around 60 deaths a day have been seen as unacceptably high in a state of 1.6 million. Covid deaths have been reported among activists, eminent lawyers, musicians, priests and politicians. SOS messages have been going out almost every night from the Goa Medical College and Hospital, located in Bambolim on Panjim’s outskirts. The GMC is the state’s apex health institution and the successor to the Portuguese Escola Medica, one of the first Western-style medical schools in India and set up in the early 19th century. The state’s BJP government has been castigated for its inefficiency, for shifting the blame when questioned in court, and for possible corruption in the allocation of oxygen supply contracts and the purchase of ventilators at inflated prices. The collapse of the hospital infrastructure meant beds, oxygen and ventilators were unavailable and patients had to sleep on the floor or on stretchers. Sawant has followed the Covid policy of Narendra Modi in desisting from enforcing a lockdown this year. On April 21, the Goa government announced a night curfew but casinos, bars, and cinemas were allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Tourists were allowed in without Covid-free certificates even as Maharashtra and Karnataka reported severe outbreaks. Late in the day, Goa implemented a 15-day “curfew” from May 9. By mid-May, Goa had crossed a total of 2,000 deaths, and nearly 2,500 cases and around 60 deaths a day. Citizens sought to fill the acute gap in information, with volunteers. CovidCareGoa.in was set up by volunteers led by the Goa-based Shruti Chaturvedi of Chaipani.com. Many recent settlers participated in the relief effort, as did religious volunteers, service clubs and restaurants that provided food free of cost at hospitals and other venues. Many young doctors stepped in, producing Facebook and other videos to share information. To complicate matters for Sawant, health minister Vishwajit Rane has been involved in a battle of one-upmanship with him since March last year in a possible bid to jostle for the chief minister’s chair. Vishwajit is the son of long-term Congress minister Pratapsing Rane, who is still in his old party. Rane Jr is one of the many Congress members who have jumped ship and joined the BJP in Goa. The BJP has ruled the state since 2012, sometimes by luring over MLAs from other parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Aligarh Muslim University senior professor dies of Covid||A senior professor of Aligarh Muslim University has succumbed to the coronavirus disease at the varsity’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, according to officials, taking the number of serving and retired faculty members who have died because of Covid or Covid-like symptoms to at least 39. Professor Mohammad Nasiruddin, 55, from the department of pharmacology died on Sunday. Professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui, principal of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, said Nasiruddin had tested positive for Covid-19 and had been admitted to the hospital two weeks ago. Students of the AMU have submitted a memorandum to vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor urging him to set up separate vaccination centres on campus for university staff and students. At least 18 serving and 21 retired AMU faculty members have died of Covid or Covid-like symptoms. On Sunday evening, AMU students took out a candle march in memory of the serving and retired faculty members. AMU proctor professor Wasim Khan told reporters on Sunday “according to available information, none of the AMU teachers who lost their lives to Covid-19 had been vaccinated”. He said the authorities would consider the students’ demand for separate vaccination centres for them and university staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Covid: Drips hang from trees as an Uttar Pradesh village fends for itself||In a village in northern India engulfed by Covid-19, the sick lie on cots under a tree, glucose drips hanging from a branch. Cows graze all around, while syringes and empty medicine packets are strewn on the ground. There is no doctor or health facility in Mewla Gopalgarh in India’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, a 90-minute drive from Delhi. There is a government hospital nearby but it has no available beds and the villagers say they cannot afford private clinics. Instead, village practitioners of alternative medicine have set up an open-air clinic where they distribute glucose and other remedies to patients with symptoms of Covid-19. Some believe lying under the neem tree, known for its medicinal properties, will raise their oxygen levels. There is no scientific basis for this belief or for some of the other remedies being offered. “When people become breathless, they have to go under trees to raise their oxygen levels,” said Sanjay Singh, whose 74-year-old father died a few days ago after developing a fever. Singh said his father was not tested and died in two days. “People are dying and there is nobody to look after us,” he said. India’s devastating second wave of infections, which has brought even hospitals in big cities such as Delhi to breaking point, is ripping through the country’s vast rural hinterland where healthcare is threadbare. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is facing criticism for failing to prepare for the second wave, said in a speech last week that the pandemic was spreading fast in the villages and urged people not to ignore the symptoms. “Get the test done, isolate yourself and start medication on time,” he said. But in this village, people are making do as best they can. One woman had borrowed an oxygen cylinder from a neighbour whose condition had improved slightly, her family said. “Truth is, there has been no Covid-19 testing. We have tried but they told us they don’t have enough staff,” said 48-year-old Yogesh Talan, a former headman of the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||NREGA wage delay adds to Covid pain||Koushalya Hembram, 42, of Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district worked under the rural job scheme for 21 days in April. But the unmarried resident of Podahat village had not received her wages till Monday. No other work is available in her area amid a resurgent Covid. “I keep checking my mobile phone in vain for a message saying my wages have been credited to my account,” Koushalya said. “It shouldn’t take this long. We are not receiving our NREGA wages on time, and there’s no other work available. What shall we do?” Koushalya had worked with nine others on a pond renovation project in Bhalumara village in three phases from April 2 to 8, 10 to 16 and 21 to 27. None of the 10 has received their wages, which should be more than Rs 4,500, with the Centre providing Rs 200 a day and the state government adding another Rs 25 a day that it has promised to introduce from this financial year. According to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the workers have to be paid within 15 days of the end of a particular phase of work. Koushalya should therefore have received her first wage payment by April 23, the second by May 1 and the third by May 12. Sandeep Kumar, coordinator, Sahayata Kendra, a non-governmental organisation that educates villagers in the district about government welfare programmes and helps them secure their rights, blamed the Centre. He said the state government had completed the formality of sending the funds transfer order to the Union rural development ministry for release of the NREGA workers’ wages. “The payment is pending with the central government. Every day, the workers are coming to us to enquire,” Kumar said. Siraj Dutta, a social activist associated with the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha, a civil society organisation, said nearly 12 lakh job scheme labourers from Jharkhand were yet to receive their wages for work done in April. He said the workers were unable to gather and protest because of the surge in Covid cases. “The NREGA is a fallback option for rural workers (because of the low wages) — they come to it when there’s no other avenue,” Dutta said. “If their wages are not paid on time, it amounts to discouraging rural people from working under this national job scheme.” Delay in the payment of wages has been one of the main problems with the scheme from its inception in 2006. Data provided in the Lok Sabha in March by junior rural development minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti suggest that on March 18, the workers’ wage arrears under the scheme stood at Rs 1,746 crore. Dutta criticised the Centre also for keeping the NREGA wages below the state minimum wages in more than half the states. For most of the states, the Centre has this year raised the job scheme wages by a paltry three to four per cent over the previous financial year’s. There’s been no increase in Kerala and just a Re 1 increase in Rajasthan. An email sent to the rural development ministry on Saturday seeking an explanation for the delayed wage payments had remained unanswered till Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu boycotts meet over Hindi ||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday cited “tacit” implementation of Hindi and Sanskrit through the three-language formula under the National Education Policy (NEP) to boycott a meeting convened by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. School education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters in Tiruchirappalli that the state government had already expressed its reservations about the NEP. Pokhriyal on Monday held a meeting of state education secretaries on the implementation of NEP, which was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year. The Centre has announced that it has become effective. The key aspects of the policy are the three-language formula, integration of pre-schooling with formal schooling, lessening academic content for school children, introduction of vocational education from Class VI, having a single regulator for higher education, flexibility in selection of subjects from streams and funding provision for private institutions. India has been following the three-language formula for more than 50 years. According to this formula, children of Class VI to X in southern, eastern and western Indian schools — barring those in Tamil Nadu — have to learn their mother tongue, English and Hindi. North Indian students have to learn Hindi, English and any of the 22 Indian languages listed in the Constitution. Last year, Tamil Nadu chief minister K. Palaniswami had in a statement said the state government would not accept the three-language formula. Tamil Nadu has been teaching Tamil and English in schools. The newly elected DMK government has taken a strong position on the language issue. DMK MP Ravi Kumar told this newspaper that students in the state would continue to study Tamil as mother tongue and English, which is the official language of India. “The state government wanted that the state education minister be allowed to present its stand on NEP, but the Centre did not allow. We are against the three-language formula. But the Centre does not want to listen to any Opposition voice. So we boycotted,” Kumar said. He said the proposed introduction of vocational schooling from Class VI would lead to students from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes dropping out from formal education. “The policy has not been discussed thoroughly with state governments,” he added. The education ministry, in a media release, said the online meeting discussed measures adopted for the management of education system during Covid. Pokhriyal underlined the importance of involving various stakeholders for effective implementation of the NEP. It said a Covid response document had been issued by the ministry delineating an action plan providing access to education and ensuring retention, continuous learning and capacity building. States shared their strategy for continuing the learning process during the pandemic. It was reported that most of the children have received the textbooks. States such as Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have made digital apps to promote learning, the release said. The release was, however, silent about Tamil Nadu’s objections to the three-language formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
