19-05-2021||India||Vaccines should be taken three months after Covid recovery, says Centre||Those suffering from Covid-19 as well as those who have contracted it after taking the first vaccine dose should go for the jabs three months after fully recovering from the disease, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. Also, Covid-19 vaccination is recommended for all lactating women and an individual can donate blood after 14 days of either receiving anti-coronavirus shot or testing RT-PCR negative, if suffering from the disease. These decisions were taken by the ministry based on the fresh recommendations by The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and have also been communicated to the states and union territories, an official statement said. These recommendations have been based on the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and emerging global scientific evidence and experience, the ministry said. Covid-19 vaccination should be deferred by three months after recovery in individuals having lab test proven SARS-CoV-2 individuals having lab test proven SARS-2 Covid-19 illness, according to the statement. Also, vaccination in Covid-19 patients who have been given anti-SARS-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma to be deferred by three months from the date of discharge from the hospital. In case of individuals who have received at least the first dose and got Covid-19 infection before completion of the dosing schedule, the second dose should be deferred by three months after clinical recovery from Covid-19 illness, the health ministry said in the statement. People with any other serious general illness requiring hospitalisation or ICU care should also wait for 4-8 weeks before getting the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said. According to the ministry, it is advisable to receive both the doses irrespective of past history of Covid infection as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. The Covid-19 vaccination is recommended for all lactating women. There is no requirement for screening of the vaccine recipients by Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) prior to Covid-19 vaccination, the statement said. Regarding vaccination of pregnant women, the matter is under discussion and further deliberation by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), it said. The ministry which has accepted the recommendations of the NEGVAC has written to states and union territories to direct the officials concerned to take note of these recommendations and undertake necessary action for their effective implementation. States have been advised to ensure effective dissemination of the information to service providers as well as the general public, through use of all channels of information and communication in the local languages, the statement said. States have also been advised to undertake training of the vaccination staff at all levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||It is Kejriwal's 'toolkit' of spreading confusion and anarchy, says BJP||The BJP on Wednesday hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his remarks about "new form of coronavirus in Singapore" that have sparked a controversy, alleging that it is part of his "toolkit to spread confusion and anarchy". BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia charged Kejriwal with seeking political mileage at the cost of India's image with his "irresponsible" tweet and said the Delhi chief minister keeps making "hue and cry" over one issue or another so that nobody questions him on his "all-round failure" in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in the city. The BJP also accused the AAP chief of "serious violation" of constitutional propriety by speaking on matters of foreign affairs and alleged that Kejriwal's statements are not only jeopardising the lives of Indian citizens but also friendly relations with countries that are coming forward to help our nation. "Kejriwal has presented his toolkit of spreading confusion and anarchy and seems to be competing with the Congress in propagating lies and destabilising the country," Bhatia alleged. In a tweet, Kejriwal had said on Tuesday, "A new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. "My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis." After Singapore had objected to Kejriwal's tweet, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had ticked him off saying the Delhi chief minister does not speak for India. "The Delhi government believes in making so much hue and cry as to ensure that nobody questions it on its all-round failure in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in the city," Bhatia said. The BJP spokesperson alleged the AAP government believes in the PPP model of "publicity, cheap politics and panic". Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia defended Kejriwal's comments and accused the BJP and its government of doing "cheap politics" over the issue. The statements and reactions of the BJP and Centre show that they are "concerned" about their "image" in Singapore and not about the children in India, Sisodia charged at a press conference. Bhatia said it is clear that it is Kejriwal who is doing "cheap politics" as he did not even try to verify before posting his controversial tweet. In its statement, the Singapore foreign ministry said there is no "Singapore variant" and that the strain prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant. Following Singapore foreign ministry's reaction regretting the "unfounded assertions" by Kejriwal, Jaishankar said, "... irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India." MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian High Commissioner conveyed to the Singapore government that the Delhi chief minister had no competence to comment on COVID variants. Attacking Kejriwal, the BJP spokesperson said, "Meddling in foreign policy matters which is as per the Constitution of India is not a state subject amounts to serious violation of constitutional propriety." He cited reports to highlight Singapore's support to India during the recent oxygen crisis and said Kejriwal's comments are dangerous and can't be overlooked. "Don't weaken India. In the process you will be weakened too," he said. After Kejriwal's tweet, Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri had reminded him that all international flights have been stopped since March 2020 and there isn't even an air bubble arrangement with Singapore. Only a few flights are being operated between the two countries under Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Indians back, he added. "We are still keeping an eye on the situation. All precautions are being taken," Puri had noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Facebook rolls out Covid announcement tool in India||Social media giant Facebook on Wednesday said it is expanding its 'COVID-19 Announcement' in India that will help health departments of states and union territories share essential COVID-19 related updates with their communities. India is the second country after the US to launch this feature. Facebook said it has partnered with 33 states and union territories to roll out this tool in their respective jurisdictions. "The COVID-19 Announcement feature will give health departments the ability to push out timely, credible COVID-19 and vaccine information to people in their local communities/ state jurisdictions. States will be able to issue these alerts statewide or to specific cities within their state," it added. The roll out of the COVID-19 Announcement tool in India is part of the company's ongoing efforts to support the public health authorities' work to keep people safe and informed during the coronavirus public health crisis, it said. "When posts by state health department pages on Facebook are marked as COVID-19 Announcements, we amplify their reach so that people located in the community are more likely to see them. We will send notifications to people located in the affected area, and will also show that information on the COVID-19 Information Center," Facebook said. This will help distribute important and urgent updates related to COVID-19 or COVID-19 vaccination efforts to people in the community, it added. Facebook said COVID-19 Announcements can be used to communicate information on existing COVID-19 resources such as helplines; updates on hospital bed availability in districts such as Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and oxygen supported beds; and changes to existing COVID-19 rules and regulation that can impact communities and day-to-day actions like lockdowns, night curfews and changes to treatment protocols. The tool can also be used to share information about vaccine eligibility and registration, and the logistics of acquiring a vaccine; providing accurate information on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour; and suggesting preventive behavioural health measures to stop the spread of COVID-19, it added. Previously, the social media giant had said it would roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India to help people identify places nearby to get inoculated. The company had also announced a USD 10 million grant for emergency response efforts for COVID-19 situation in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Dropping KK Shailaja an ‘organisational’ decision, says CPI(M)||Amidst the heightened social media campaign to induct K K Shailaja into the new cabinet, the CPI(M) on Wednesday said the dropping of the popular health minister was a "political and organisational" decision of the party and there would not be any relook into it. CPI(M) state acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the leadership had already explained the decision taken by the party in this regard. Asked about the trending campaigns on the social media platforms to bring back 'Shailaja Teacher', as she is fondly being called, Vijayaraghavan said it did not come to his notice. As far as the Communist party is concerned, politics and organisation were equally important and the present decision was in accordance with it, he said. "The party has to take into account its political and organisational interests. As a ruling party, it has to give due consideration to protect the interest of the state also. So, the party arrives at such decisions after serious contemplation," he told reporters here. As far as the CPI(M) is considered, it has the responsibility to guide the new government in a better way, the Left leader said, adding that the exemplary performance of the new government is its top priority. Pinarayi Vijayan was on Tuesday elected its Parliamentary Party Leader for a second term as Chief Minister but the omission of Shailaja from the new cabinet has sparked a debate. Hailed as "rockstar health minister" by the global media for her able leadership, effective crisis management and mature intervention in arresting the first wave of Covid-19 in the state, Shailaja's non-inclusion raised many eyebrows cutting across party lines. Meanwhile, the social media platforms are still abuzz with comments and campaigns to call back the health minister, who was regarded as the face of the state's fight against COVID-19. People including politicians, writers and celebrities have expressed shock and despair on the Left government's decision to deny her a cabinet berth. Many netizens are using hashtags such as #bringourteacherback, #BringBackShailajaTeacher to question the Left party's decision and request it to bring her back to the new ministry. "Sorry to see @shailajateacher leave the Kerala cabinet. Aside from her reputed competence & efficiency, I always found her helpful, responsive & accessible as Health Minister, esp during the #Covid crisis. She will be missed.," Congress leader and former union minister Shashi Tharoor tweeted. Eminent writer and Left sympathiser N S Madhavan opined that the dropping of Shailaja would create huge perception problems nationally and internationally. "Dropping @shailajateacher would create huge perceptional problems nationally and internationally, and common people, as well as, health staff are already feeling orphaned. Sincerely wish there will be a rethink on the issue - still there is time," he said in a tweet. Award winning actor Parvathy Thiruvoth described Shailaja as one of the most able leaders of the present time. "@CMOKerala, We deserve better than this! #bringourteacherback One of the most able leaders of our times! A rarity, really! @shailajateacher led the state through the most difficult of medical emergencies," Parvathy tweeted. Actors Rima Kallingal, Rajisha Vijayan, actor-director Geethu Mohandas, filmmaker Anjali Menon were among those who led social media campaigns in support of the popular woman minister. However, Shailaja, said she was not disappointed at being denied a berth in the new cabinet. Though critics and media alleged that Shailaja was sidelined, CPI(M) took the position that all ministers except the CM should be fresh faces in the new cabinet. Soon after the historic poll victory, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had made it clear that there would be new faces in his second cabinet but he did not drop any hint that all existing ministers including Shailaja would be excluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||IMD issues cyclone warning for east coast now||After the west coast, another cyclone is likely to hit the east coast by May 26-27, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. A low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22. "It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal - Odisha coasts around 26th May evening," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. It added that the southwest monsoon is very likely to advance over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21 in association with the likely strengthening and deepening of southwesterly winds over the region. Other atmospheric and oceanic conditions like conducive environment for convection, sea surface temperatures are also favourable for persistent cloudiness over Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of east-central and southeast Bay of Bengal around May 22. These conditions will help in formation of a low pressure area over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22. Under the influence of these systems, Andaman and Nicobar Islands are likely to witness light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on May 22 and 23. Odisha, West Bengal and adjoining Assam and Meghalaya are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places are very likely to commence from evening of May 25. The intensity of the rainfall will increase substantially. April-May, the pre-monsoon months, usually witness formation of cyclones on the eastern as well as the western coast. May 2020 saw two cyclones -- super cyclonic storm Amphan and severe cyclonic storm Nisarga -- which hit the eastern and western coast, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||IT Ministry asks WhatsApp to withdraw new privacy policy, reveal government sources||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has directed WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy, according to sources. The IT Ministry believes that the changes to WhatsApp privacy policy and the manner of introducing the said changes undermines the sacrosanct values of informational privacy, data security and user choice and harms the rights and interests of Indian citizens, government sources said. The government has given seven days to WhatsApp to respond to the notice and if no satisfactory response is received, necessary steps in consonance with law will be taken, sources informed. In a communication to WhatsApp on May 18, the Ministry has once again told the messaging platform to withdraw its privacy policy 2021, they said. The Ministry, in its communication, has drawn attention of WhatsApp as to how its new privacy policy is a violation of several provisions of the existing Indian laws and rules. In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the rights and interests of Indian citizens, the government will consider various options available to it under laws in India, sources added. The Ministry has also strongly taken up the issue of WhatsApp's 'discriminatory treatment' to Indian users vis-a-vis users in Europe. It has stated that: "As you are doubtlessly aware, many Indian citizens depend on WhatsApp to communicate in everyday life. It is not just problematic, but also irresponsible, for WhatsApp to leverage this position to impose unfair terms and conditions on Indian users, particularly those that discriminate against Indian users vis- -vis users in Europe." It is pertinent to mention here that WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with its parent company, Facebook. Sources noted that WhatsApp had earlier claimed that it officially deferred its new privacy policy beyond May 15, 2021. However, the Ministry in its communication has asserted that deferral of the privacy policy beyond May 15, does not absolve WhatsApp from respecting the values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users. It has highlighted that the changes to the privacy policy and the manner of introducing the changes including by way of FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) undermines the values of privacy, data security and user choice. The Ministry has also taken the same stand in the Delhi High Court, where this matter is sub-judice, the source pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Death toll due to cyclone Tauktae climbs to 45 in Gujarat||As many as 45 people have been killed due to cyclone Tauktae across 12 districts of Gujarat, officials said Wednesday. Fifteen deaths were reported from Amreli district in Saurashtra region, the worst affected in the cyclone that crossed the state coast as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday night and completed landfall around 1.30 am Tuesday, officials said. Eight people each were killed in Bhavnagar and Gir Somnath coastal districts, an official of the State Emergency Operation Centre said. Five were killed in Ahmedabad, two in Kheda, and one each in Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Valsad, Rajkot, Navsari and Panchmahal districts, the official said. While 24 deaths were due to wall collapses during the cyclone, six died after trees fell on them, five each because of house collapse and electrocution, four due to roof collapse and one died due to a tower collapse, the official said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat to review the situation in the state in the aftermath of cyclone Tauktae, on Wednesday. In what was one of the worst cyclones faced by the state, Tauktae triggered heavy rains in many parts along its way from the Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat with 46 talukas receiving over 100 mm of downpour, while 12 of them recorded 150 mm to 175 mm of rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Karnataka announces Rs 1,250 crore Covid relief package ||As Karnataka is battling the second wave of pandemic, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced over Rs 1,250 crore relief package for those whose livelihood has been affected by COVID-19 induced lockdown. The Chief Minister also said a decision will be taken on extending the current lockdown, a couple of days ahead of it coming to a close on May 24. "Our government had given financial packages to various sectors during the COVID first wave. Despite that, as the current restrictions have affected the livelihood of those with unorganised sector and farmers, to mitigate its impact we are announcing a relief programme of more than Rs 1,250 crore," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said his government was announcing the package despite the state facing financial constraints, and is standing by the people during this difficult time. "We have done the best we can within the current financial limitations, and will consider if any further needs to be done in the future," he said in response to a question. The state government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the COVID cases continued to spike. With the current lockdown ending early next week, several leaders, including ministers, have expressed themselves in favour of extending it, to control the spread of COVID. Listing out details of the relief package, the CM said Rs 10,000 relief will be given to growers for per hectare loss. It will benefit about 20,000 farmers and may cost Rs 12.73 crore. For the losses suffered by fruit and vegetable growers, Rs 10,000 per ha financial relief will be given to growers, limiting it to one hectare. He said this will benefit about 69,000 farmers and may cost Rs 69 crore. Besides, Rs 3,000 each relief will be given to auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers who have licence and have registered, benefiting about 2.10 lakh beneficiaries and it may cost Rs 63 crore. Yediyurappa further said Rs 3,000 each will be given to labourers who have registered with Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, costing Rs 494 crore. He said Rs 2,000 each will be given to those under unorganised sector like barbers, washermen, tailor, porters, ragpickers, potters, goldsmiths, mechanics, blacksmith, household workers, cobblers, among others, benefiting 3.04 lakh people, and will cost about Rs 60.89 crore. Roadside vendors, those registered under Aatma Nirbhar package will be given Rs 2,000 each, he said, adding that it will benefit about 2.20 lakh people and cost Rs 44 crore. Also artists and art teams will be given Rs 3,000 each, benefiting 16,095 beneficiaries and will cost Rs 4.82 crore, he further added, while listing out several other announcements. Opposition parties including the Congress have been urging the state government to provide relief to those whose livelihood has been affected by the COVID-19 induced shutdown. The Yediyurappa government in Karnataka was one of the first state governments to announce an economic relief package during the first wave last year, even ahead of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s in talks with RDIF over selling Sputnik V in other countries||Dr Reddy's Laboratories, which is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, is holding parleys with RDIF for acquiring rights for more countries, a senior official of the Indian drug maker said. Dr Reddy's which had received over two lakh vaccines from RDIF, recently soft-launched Sputnik V and tied up with Apollo Hospitals for piloting the vaccine. ".. we are also in discussions with them (RDIF) about quantities and rights, assets permit for other countries. So this is the overall view that we have at this stage of Sputnik," Chief Executive Officer of Dr Reddys, Erez Israeli said in a recent Earnings Conference Call. In August 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V. Subsequently, in September, Dr Reddy's and (RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V. In addition, there are discussions with RDIF for Sputnik light, a single dose vaccine for Covid-19 being developed in Russia as well as additional engagement for the future for India, Israeli further said. RDIF has tied up with six Indian drug makers to manufacture Sputnik V and their supplies are expected to roll out by August or September, he said. Replying to a query, Israeli said they hope that the supply of 125 million doses would be accomplished within 12 months, if everything is in place. A senior official of Dr Reddys had earlier said they expect to receive about 36 million doses of Sputnik V in a couple of months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Modi in Gujarat to review situation after cyclone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat to review the situation in the state and announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief measures in the areas hit by cyclone Tauktae in Gujarat, an official release said. He also announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia compensation for the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured in cyclone-related incidents in all states affected by Tauktae. The prime minister approved the help package after holding a review meeting in Ahmedabad with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and top officials to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. In the morning, Modi landed at Bhavnagar from Delhi and proceeded for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, an official said. Thirteen people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae pummelled parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles, trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads. In what was one of the worst cyclones faced by thestate, Tauktae triggered heavy rains in many parts along itsway from the Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat with 46 talukas receiving over 100 mm of downpour, while 12 of them recorded 150 mm to 175 mm of rains. Tauktae, characterised as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday, has now weakened into a depression and lay centred over south Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department said. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, more than 40,000trees and over 70,000 electric poles uprooted, while 5,951villages faced total power blackout due to the cyclonic stormin Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Singapore objects to Kejriwal's Covid variant remark||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's remarks about a new form of COVID-19 in Singapore sparked off a diplomatic row on Wednesday with the Southeast Asian city-state calling in the Indian envoy and conveying to him its strong objections to the "unfounded assertions". Following Singapore foreign ministry's reaction, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the Delhi chief minister does not speak for India and that the two countries have been solid partners in combating the pandemic. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs, Arindam Bagchi, said the Indian High Commissioner P Kumaran clarified to the Singapore government that the Delhi chief minister had no competence to comment on COVID-19 variants. In its statement, the Singapore foreign ministry said there is no "Singapore variant" and that the strain prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which was first detected in India. Kejriwal on Tuesday asked the central government to immediately halt air services with Singapore claiming that a new coronavirus strain found in that country is particularly harmful to children and could trigger a third wave of the pandemic in India. Singapore's health ministry trashed the claim on Tuesday night. "Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM's tweet on 'Singapore variant'. High Commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy," Bagchi tweeted. Earlier, Singapore's Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan tweeted: "Politicians should stick to facts! There is no 'Singapore variant'." The Singapore foreign ministry said it is disappointed that a prominent political figure had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Jaishankar said Singapore and India have been solid partners in combating the pandemic and appreciated the country's role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. "Their gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship," Jaishankar said. "However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India," he said. Soon after Jaishankar's comments, Balakrishnan thanked his Indian counterpart and called for focusing on resolving the situation in the respective countries and helping one another, adding, "Nobody is safe until everyone is safe." Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said the assertions made by Kejriwal were unfounded. "MFA regrets the unfounded assertions made on Facebook and Twitter by Chief Minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal that a variant of COVID-19 found in Singapore was particularly harmful to children and could cause a third wave of infections in India," it said. "MFA is disappointed that a prominent political figure had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims," it said. The MFA said it met High Commissioner Kumaran this morning to express these concerns. "As highlighted by MOH (Ministry of Health) in its press release of May 18, there is no 'Singapore variant'. The strain prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which was first detected in India," the MFA said. Taking to Twitter, Kejriwal on Tuesday called for cancelling all air services with Singapore with immediate effect. "The new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis," Kejriwal had said in a tweet in Hindi. Sisodia defends CM Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday defended Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's comments about a "new" COVID strain in Singapore that is "very dangerous" for children and accused the BJP and its government of doing "cheap politics" over the issue. The statements and reactions of the BJP and Centre show that they are "concerned" about their "image" in Singapore and not about the children in India, Sisodia charged in a press conference. "Kejriwal talked of Singapore strain and the children. The issue is not Singapore but children," he said. The deputy chief minister further alleged that the Centre had failed to act when scientists and doctors alerted about the "London strain" of COVID which has now led to large number of deaths in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||PIL against Covaxin trial on 2-18 age group: HC seeks Centre's stand||A PIL to set aside the permission granted by the Drugs Controller General of India to Bharat Biotech for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of its Covaxin COVID-19 vaccine on the 2-18 age group was heard on Wednesday by the Delhi High Court which sought the Centre's stand. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre and Bharat Biotech seeking their stand by July 15 on the petition. The court declined to pass any interim order staying the permission, granted on May 12, for clinical trials as sought by the petitioner, Sanjeev Kumar. The trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 and day 28. Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Daily Covid toll breaches 4,500 mark in the country||India saw a record 4,529 fatalities due to coronavirus in a single day pushing the COVID-19 death toll to 2,83,248, while 2.67 lakh fresh cases were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With a total of 2,67,334 fresh infections, India's total tally of cases climbed to 2,54,96,330. The active cases dipped to 32,26,719 comprising 12.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.23 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,19,86,363 while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 32,03,01,177 samples have been tested up to May 18 with 20,08,296 samples being tested on Tuesday. n, 124 from Haryana and 111 from Bihar. A total of 2, 83,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 83,777 from Maharashtra, 22,838 from Karnataka, 22,111 from Delhi, 18,369 from Tamil Nadu, 18,072 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,576 from West Bengal, 12,317 from Punjab and 12,036 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Kerala shocker: No place for 'Rockstar health minister' in new cabinet ||It’s difficult to imagine a more ruthless political hatchet job. Kerala’s former Health Minister K. K. Shailaja was seen by many as the face of Kerala’s initially very successful fight against the Covid-19 and won re-election by a record 61,000 votes.  But just when she was being hailed as a potential future chief minister, she was summarily ejected from the Kerala state cabinet. Kerala’s new Great Helmsman, Pinarayi Vijayan, may have bungled, though, by dropping Shailaja who's been a popular politician and moreover is one of the few prominent women in Indian politics. By evening #BringbackShailajaTeacher was trending on Twitter with over 11,000 likes and 90,000 likes on Instagram. Distinguished Malayalam writer N. S. Madhavan, who's also a keen political observer said: “Dropping @shailajateacher would create huge perceptional problems nationally and internationally. Sincerely wish there will be a rethink on this issue – still there is time.” Shailaja has been demoted to the CPI(M)’s Chief Whip in the Kerala legislature, a relatively lowly position. That’s a huge comedown for the woman who was described by The Guardian as the, “Coronavirus Slayer” and “Rockstar Health Minister”.  Another UK magazine, Prospect, listed her as one of the 50 Top Thinkers for the Covid Age. Even more amazingly, the bespectacled 63-year-old made it to the cover of Vogue India. Others like actress Parvathy Thiruvothu also joined in the loud chorus calling for Shailaja’s reinstatement in the cabinet, saying on Twitter: “@CMOKerala. We deserve better than this! #bringourteacherback. One of the most able leaders of our times. A rarity, really! @shailajateacher led the state through the most difficult of medical emergencies.” Many interpreted Shailaja Teacher’s dropping as an effort by the CPI(M), which has a reputation for shutting women out of positions of power, as yet another effort in this direction. And they weren’t mollified by the fact that three women have been brought into the cabinet, including journalist and TV presenter Veena George and Dr Bindhu, the former Thrissur mayor, who also happens to be the wife of CPM state secretary K. Vijayraghavan. In another astonishing move, the 20 new ministers who were appointed Tuesday are all first-time ministers. Eyebrows were also raised over the fact that Vijayan’s son-in-law PA Mohammad Riyas has also been brought into the cabinet. Former Finance Minister Thomas Isaac, who's articulate and had the reputation of being an effective financial manager, received an even bigger snub earlier. He was not even given a ticket to fight the elections. Another old face who didn’t make it to the cabinet was former power minister MM Mani. Shailaja, herself, played down the fact that she had been dropped and, when asked on television, loyally defended the move, saying: “It is a policy decision. I was also a newcomer last time. None of those from the previous term is in this time.” She also pointed out that the anti-Covid fight had been a team effort and not fought by her alone. But Shailaja had earned fame globally because her ministry had been in the eye of the storm over the past five years. In 2018, the state was able to quickly identify and control the lethal Nipah virus which has a very high fatality rate. There have been critics, however, who said it was Chief Minister Vijayan who led the fight against Covid-19 from day one. He pulled together the state’s resources and ensured that a united battle was fought against the virus. District-level workers were brought into the anti-Covid-19 and on one occasion Vijayan persuaded opposition leaders to join him during a video conference with health and district workers around the state. The police were also pulled into the fight guarding the state borders carefully and, in what was a great public relations event, sang and danced for an anti-Covid-19 video. Kerala medical facilities are also superior to those in other states and even government hospitals are well-equipped which helped in the Covid fight. Vijayan also ensured it was clear that he was leading the fight by holding daily press conferences on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Observers noted that Shailaja initially started holding the press conferences but the chief minister swiftly took over from her when he noticed she was garnering a huge amount of publicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Unemployment rate doubles in March-May||The unemployment rate in the country has more than doubled in the March-May period this year as the pandemic’s second wave flattened the country, data released by a private research group show. According to weekly unemployment figures released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a leading business information think tank, the rural populace has also born the brunt of the pandemic and the resultant restrictions this time. During the first wave last year, the urban workforce had been primarily affected. Also, women have been more adversely hit by the latest Covid surge. The CMIE data show that the unemployment rate in the week ending May 16 was 14.45 per cent of the total workforce, more than double the figure recorded on March 14 — 6.63 per cent. The situation is equally bleak in rural areas and urban areas. The CMIE categorised as unemployed those people who sought jobs but received less than 1 hour of work in a week. Another pointer to the grim situation could be found in data released by the ministry of rural development, which showed a massive spike in work provided under the 100-day job scheme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. The wage provided under the MGNREGA is meagre and payments are often delayed, as a result of which it is the lowest on the preference list of workers. According to the ministry data, nearly 1.85 crore people have been offered work in May under the MGNREGA, which is 52 per cent higher than that given during the same period in 2019 when there was no Covid. The wage rate under the MGNREGA is lower than the official minimum wage rate in 16 states. The states’ minimum wage rates themselves are lower than the market wage rates, or the amounts at which private entities and individuals get work done. Moreover, labourers are paid 15 days after they finish work under the MGNREGA, and even then payments are often delayed. Labour economist Amit Basole, a faculty member at Azim Premji University, said the pandemic had whittled down the Worker-Population Ratio (WPR), which refers to the number of working age people employed from among the population. The university, which calculated the ratio from CMIE data, found that between March and April 2021, the male WPR had fallen from 63.4 per cent to 62.4 per cent while the female WPR had come down from 8.5 per cent to 6.7 per cent. “The WPR indicates women are being hit harder than men,” Basole said. He said pseudo-employment, or work that does not generate any income, had increased among self-employed people. Many of these people have been opening their business units, workshops or production centres, but hardly receiving any customers because of the pandemic and the local lockdowns. “Because the demand for goods and services has come down as people have limited their consumption to essential items, a section of self-employed people trading in non-essential goods has very low or no earnings. In a way, they are also unemployed though all surveys will label them as employed,” Basole said. The lifting of restrictions in the states as the pandemic eases will facilitate a slow revival of the economy and the job sector. “Since it is going to be a stressed period ahead, the minimum that is required from the government is an increase in the permissible days and types of work under the MGNREGA, direct benefit transfer of funds and continuation of food security measures,” Basole said. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, a professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, attributed the increase in the unemployment rate to a reduction in economic activities because of the increasing micro, temporal and state-wide lockdowns. “The state-wide lockdowns aggregate to a quasi-national lockdown with minimal trade and industrial activities and shrinking economic activities. Both product demand and labour demand have been significantly affected. This is reflected in the gradual but sure surge in the daily rate of unemployment,” Sundar said. He said the CMIE data suggested that the second wave of the pandemic had also mauled economic activities in the rural areas, unlike during the first wave when the urban centres had mainly born the brunt. “These developments call for direct benefit transfer of funds apart from other social security measures. The labour market realities call for expanding fiscal policies,” Sundar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Indian Navy mounts massive air and sea rescue mission for 390 oil workers||The Indian Navy has mounted a massive air and sea rescue mission for 390 oil workers and crew declared missing or stranded as three barges and an oil drillship started to drift in the Arabian Sea after Cyclone Tauktae barrelled through the west coast on Monday night. The three barges had been hired by the State-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) for a project in the western offshore field while the drillship, the Sagar Bhushan, had been deployed for exploration. The gravest concern was over the fate of Barge Papaa 305, which sank 35 nautical miles from Mumbai. It had 273 people on board with reports saying that 79 were missing in the churning sea. The barge belonged to a contractor named Afcons, which is owned by the Shapoorji Pallonji Group. The rescue for the Papaa 305 was mounted by the naval ships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata supported by Coast Guard vessel ICG Samarth, a tug boat belonging to Afcons and an offshore supply vessel of ONGC. Later, three more ONGC offshore supply vessels and two multipurpose support vessels were also mobilised. The two other barges — Support Station-3 (SS-3) and Gal Constructor — also belonged to Afcons and were adrift after breaking anchor. Reports said the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard vessels had been able to so far rescue 317 of the more than 700 personnel on the four vessels. The cyclone hit the Gujarat coast but early reports suggested that some of the largest ports in the country like Mundra and Dahej, commercial assets, and manufacturing entities had not been badly affected. (See Page 5) RMSI, a global catastrophe risk management consultancy, estimated the initial cost of the damage wrought by the cyclone at Rs 15,000 crore. At least half of the losses are expected from Gujarat and Daman & Diu. The remaining losses are expected from Kerala, Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||FIR against Nadda and other BJP members for forging Congress letterhead||The Congress on Tuesday went to the police against BJP president J.P. Nadda and several of his colleagues, accusing them of forgery with the intent to divert attention from the “mammoth failure” of the Narendra Modi government in handling the pandemic. The party sought the registration of an FIR against Nadda, Union minister Smriti Irani, spokesperson Sambit Patra, general secretary in-charge of organisation B.L. Santosh and others for forging the letterhead of the Congress research department and printing fabricated content on it to malign the Congress and create disharmony in society. The complaint seeks action under the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act, demands seizure of the devices on which the forgery was done and the arrest of the people involved. It was filed by Congress research department head Rajiv Gowda and social media head Rohan Gupta. The Congress has said it will move court to get instructions under Section 156 of the CrPC for registration of an FIR if Delhi police don’t act on its complaint. The party approached the Tughlaq Road police station after BJP spokesperson Patra held a news conference to release the document, describing it as a “toolkit” to defame the government and Prime Minister Modi for pandemic mismanagement. Several cabinet ministers, BJP chief ministers and senior ministers shared the document, which they labelled the “Congress toolkit”, arguing that the Opposition party was engaged in maligning the country and the Prime Minister. The document contained points on which the Opposition party could corner the Prime Minister, such as the lack of transparency on the PM CARES Fund or the decision to spend thousands of crores on the Central Vista project during the pandemic; how it could highlight the service of the Youth Congress; and reach out to the media and intellectuals. The BJP leaders tried to give the impression that the news reports questioning the Modi government’s role in the pandemic, the criticism for allowing the Kumbh and the praise for the Youth Congress’s efforts to help the Covid-affected were all stage-managed. Gowda said the Congress could not have ignored the BJP’s “outrageous behaviour” and Gupta added that they would write to all social media platforms for action against those who spread the false message after the FIR was registered. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said conspiracies were being hatched to “turn a petty man into a towering leader”. Dressing up Modi’s image was now an impossible act as the whole world has seen the reality, he added. Khera said: “That has been their strategy. Don’t address the real concerns and target those who ask questions. They maligned students and activists to begin with. Then they targeted intellectuals, artistes and authors (who returned their awards in protest against lynchings). They tried to malign the protesting farmers (by calling them Khalistani, Maoists, Pakistani and Chinese agents). Now when the entire country is distressed, struggling to survive the curse of the coronavirus, they have attacked the Congress and the media instead of solving the real problems of oxygen, medicines and hospital admission.” “The citizens of this country would not have been in such grief if the government had spent its time and energy in the management of Covid. But they are obsessed with Modi’s image, desperate to refurbish his leadership credentials. In public life, you face criticism and questions. You deal with them by providing answers. But the BJP resorts to diversionary ploys, character assassination, lies and politics of deception,” Khera said. The Congress held another news conference to explain how the death figures were being allegedly manipulated in Uttar Pradesh. Spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The official figure for Lucknow says that 2,268 deaths occurred in the last one year due to Covid. The truth is that in the last 45 days — between April 1 and May 15 — 7,890 death certificates had been issued. Between February 15 and March 31, 5,970 death certificates were issued. The abnormal jump clearly shows death by Covid. But the state government does not consider them Covid-related deaths.” Uttar Pradesh Congress Legislature Party leader Atadhana Mishra also referred to the alleged manipulation of death figures and said: “Earlier the death certificates were issued by the Lucknow Nagar Nigam. Now they cannot issue death certificates without clearance from the chief minister’s office. The government failed to provide medical assistance to the people and dignity in death as well. Tyres are burnt to dispose of bodies, JCB machines are digging pits to dump bodies. This government has no moral right to continue in office.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Scammers on the prowl in pandemic ||Within the world’s worst coronavirus outbreak, few treasures are more coveted than an empty oxygen canister. India’s hospitals desperately need the metal cylinders to store and transport the life-saving gas as patients across the country gasp for breath. So a local charity reacted with outrage when one supplier more than doubled the price, to nearly $200 (Rs 14,608) each. The charity called the police, who discovered what could be one of the most brazen, dangerous scams in a country awash with coronavirus-related fraud and black-market profiteering. The police say the supplier — a business called Varsha Engineering, essentially a scrapyard — had been repainting fire extinguishers and selling them as oxygen canisters. The consequences could be deadly: the less-sturdy fire extinguishers might explode if filled with high-pressure oxygen. “This guy should be charged with homicide,” said Mukesh Khanna, a volunteer at the charity. “He was playing with lives.” (The owner, now in jail, couldn’t be reached for comment.) A coronavirus second wave has devastated India’s medical system and undermined confidence in the ability of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to treat its people and quell the disease. There are widely believed to be far more deaths than the thousands reported each day. Hospitals are full. Drugs, vaccines, oxygen and other supplies are running out. Pandemic profiteers are filling the gap. Medicine, oxygen and other supplies are brokered online or in hushed phone calls. In many cases, the sellers prey on the desperation and grief of families. “These people, the cyber criminals, were already out there,” said Muktesh Chander, a special commissioner for the Delhi police. “The moment they got this opportunity they switched on to this modus operandi.” Sometimes the goods are fraudulent, and some are potentially harmful. Last week, police officers in the state of Uttar Pradesh accused one group of stealing used funeral shrouds from bodies and selling them as new. The day before, officers in the same state discovered more than 100 vials of fake remdesivir, an antiviral drug that many doctors in India are prescribing despite questions about its effectiveness. Citing the predatory sales, a top court in New Delhi said this month that “the moral fabric of the society is dismembered”. Over the past month, Delhi police have arrested more than 210 people on allegations of cheating, hoarding, criminal conspiracy or fraud in connection with Covid-related scams. Similarly, the police in Uttar Pradesh have arrested 160 people. “I have seen all kinds of predators and all forms of depravity,” said Vikram Singh, a former police chief in Uttar Pradesh, “but this level of predation and depravity I have not seen in the 36 years of my career or in my life.” The scams and profiteering represent the flip side of the huge online help system that has emerged to fill the void left by the government. Do-gooders across the country have swooped in to connect those in need with lifesaving resources. The ad hoc system has limits. Vital supplies like oxygen are still stuck in bottlenecks, and people keep dying after hospitals run out. Vaccine and pharmaceutical makers can’t keep up. Politicians in some places are threatening people who publicly plead for supplies. That empowers the black market, with its exorbitant prices and dicey goods. Many people feel they have no choice. Rohit Shukla, a graduate student in New Delhi, said that after his grandmother died in late April in a neighbouring state, an ambulance driver demanded $70 (Rs 5,113) for the three-mile ride from the hospital to the cremation ground, over 10 times the normal price. When the family arrived, workers demanded $70 for firewood that should have cost $7 (Rs 513). Supply and demand might account for some price increases, Shukla said, but he suspects more than that. “Everyone is trying to profit from this pandemic,” he said. “I don’t know what has happened to people.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Indian firm to produce Johnson & Johnson vaccine||India’s Biological E. will produce the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine alongside its own candidate, its managing director told Reuters on Tuesday, which could boost the country’s overall supplies amid a shortage. “The infrastructure and plants are completely separate for both the products and we will be producing both independent of each other,” Mahima Datla said in a text message, declining to give any timeline or other details. She told Reuters in February that Biological E. was looking to contract-manufacture about 600 million doses of the J&J vaccine annually. India’s government, however, did not factor in any production of J&J shot this year in the country in a list of likely vaccine output released last week. J&J confirmed to Reuters it was working with Biological E. on manufacturing its vaccine. “We believe Biological E. will be an important part of our global Covid-19 vaccine supply network, where multiple manufacturing sites are involved in the production of our vaccine across different facilities, sometimes in different countries and continents, before the vaccine can be distributed,” a J&J India spokesperson said in an email.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Covid claims doctor who gave online tips||Dr Krishan Kumar Aggarwal, a Delhi cardiologist and former chief of the Indian Medical Association who used social media with great abundance to deliver healthcare tips to the public and fellow medics, died on Monday night after Covid-19 complications. He was 62. Dr Aggarwal, who posted video messages — including a final message that said “the show must go on” and urged doctors to offer simultaneous mass consultations — even after he was diagnosed with Covid-19, had been fully vaccinated with two doses. Aggarwal had last year stirred ripples on social media after he borrowed terminology from yoga, physics and biology to suggest that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for candles to be lit nationwide on a specific day would protect people from the coronavirus. One of his videos posted during the epidemic had urged people to walk a circular length of 100 feet for six minutes and determine their “personal best” — whether they can walk 7, 10, or 12 or even more times that length. On developing Covid, a fall in that number would mean the lungs have been affected. Doctors who held Aggarwal in high regard for his public outreach circulated on Tuesday what they described as his final video message in which he is seen breathing oxygen through nasal prongs. “I’m having Covid pneumonia which is progressive, but even then, remember Raj Kapoor’s words: picture abhi baaki hai, the show must go on,” he said. “People like me will take oxygen and still take classes and try and save lives. I’m not K.K. Aggarwal, I’m the medical profession,” he had said in the video message during which he urged fellow doctors to offer simultaneous consultations to 100 patients with similar symptoms via Zoom. “The time for one-to-one consultations is gone,” he’d said. “We have to pull people out of this crisis. Get 100 patients with similar symptoms together, give them joint consultation in 15 minutes.” The makers of both the AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India, and Covaxin have, relying on data from their respective clinical trials, said their vaccines offer “100 per cent” protection from “severe disease”, but vaccine researchers say no vaccine is perfect. “Exceptions do not define reality — vaccines are preventing millions of people from developing severe disease,” said Rajeev Jayadevan, a senior consultant gastroenterologist and former president of the IMA Cochin chapter. “A death is tragic, but we expect it to be exceptionally rare.” Vaccines get approved on the basis of results from clinical trials that typically involve thousands to tens of thousands of volunteers — in the case of Covid-19 vaccines, roughly 20,000 to over 30,000 volunteers — and extreme rare responses become visible only when vaccines get used in millions of people. In a trial involving 20,000 persons, if 20 people among 10,000 unvacccinated develop severe disease, but no inoculated volunteer develops severe disease, the protection from severe disease would be labelled as 100 per cent. “There are individual variations in how people respond to vaccines — In some rare cases, either because of the recipient’s age, or certain underlying health conditions, full protection from severe disease may not occur,” Jayadevan said. Aggarwal, a former national president of the IMA, the country’s largest body of doctors, had himself in a video posted on Twitter on April 28 after his Covid-19 diagnosis discussed the virtues of vaccines. “If you have received two (doses), and if you get corona(virus), as I got it, you may have two phenomena, either significant pneumonia or significant inflammation…. I have a hyper-inflammatory response,” he had said, adding: “Don’t be afraid of vaccination. Vaccination will protect you from serious corona(virus).” J.A. Jayalal, the IMA’s current national president, said about Aggarwal: “He was a legendary leader with encyclopaedic knowledge who helped educate fellow medical professionals and the public.” The IMA has catalogued 1,026 deaths among doctors from Covid-19 since the arrival of the epidemic — 720 during the first wave and 270 during the second wave until Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: India unlikely to resume major exports of vaccines until at least October||India is unlikely to resume major exports of Covid-19 vaccines until at least October as it diverts shots for domestic use, three government sources said, a longer than expected delay set to worsen supply shortages from the global Covax initiative. Battling the world’s biggest jump in coronavirus infections, India halted vaccine exports a month ago after donating or selling more than 66 million doses. The move has left countries including Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and many in Africa scrambling for alternate supplies. The World Health Organisation, which co-leads Covax, on Monday called on vaccine makers outside India to advance supplies to the programme given the shortfall from the South Asian country. The sources, who spoke to Reuters on the condition of anonymity as they were not authorised to talk to media on the subject, said India’s vaccination drive will now take priority as its tally of coronavirus infections crosses 25 million and daily death toll hits a record high. “We don’t have to officially convey to all countries as we are not obligated to do,” one of the sources said about the decision to hold back exports. “It was internally discussed and some countries were asked not to expect export commitments given the current Indian situation.” The source did not name the countries told about the delay. The other two sources said the exact timing for resuming exports could change depending on how soon India is able to control the second wave of cases that has overwhelmed the health system. India’s ministry of external affairs, which is coordinating and overseeing all vaccine exports, did not respond to a request for comment on the matter. A spokesman for the Serum Institute of India, the world’s biggest vaccine maker, said the focus for now is on supplying vaccines to India. It had previously expected shipments to restart from June. Asked about the October timeline, Covax co-lead GAVI told Reuters at least 140 million doses it had expected from the Serum Institute by the end of May will now remain in India. “As India confronts a truly dreadful wave of the pandemic, Indian vaccine production, including the 140 million vaccine doses initially destined for Covax, have been committed to protecting its own citizens,” a GAVI spokeswoman said in an email. “We offer the government of India our full support in their effort to bring the virus under control and stand ready to help in any way we can.” Covax has a deal with the Serum Institute to deliver 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca or Novavax shots. The head of Unicef on Monday asked G7 countries to donate supplies to Covax as an emergency measure to address a severe shortfall caused by disruptions to Indian vaccine exports.Unicef, which is helping supply Covid-19 vaccines through Covax, estimates the supply shortfall at about 190 million by the end of June. US President Joe Biden said on Monday his country would export at least 20 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson shots, on top of 60 million AstraZeneca doses he had already planned to give to other countries. Biden’s move came as WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned the world has reached a situation of “vaccine apartheid”, calling on wealthier nations and vaccine producers to increase vaccine sharing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Seven dead, 40,000 trees uprooted in Gujarat||At least seven persons died, towns and villages plunged into darkness because of power outages and thousands of trees and electricity poles were uprooted in areas near Gujarat’s coast after Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on Monday night, bringing with it very strong winds and heavy rainfall. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said 160 state roads had been destroyed, 40,000 trees uprooted and over 16,000 houses damaged. Heavy rain and high winds continued to lash the state but authorities said they were making sure that medical supplies such as life-saving oxygen were being delivered to hospitals at a time Gujarat had already been grappling with the coronavirus pandemic. “Our priority is to clear the roads, so there is no impact on oxygen movement,” said Gaurang Makwana, the top official of Bhavnagar district. More than 200,000 people had been evacuated from their homes in Gujarat before Tauktae, packing gusts of up to 210kmph, made landfall. No damage has been reported at refineries located in Gujarat and sea ports that were expected to be in the storm’s path. At the Jamnagar refinery, the world’s biggest oil refinery complex that is owned by Reliance Industries, no damage was reported, a company spokesman said. Operations at the Mundra port, India’s largest private port, have resumed, a port official said. A spokesperson for Essar Ports also said their installations were safe. “…As a measure of precaution, we have moved all our floating craft to inner anchorage,” he said. Ahead of the cyclone, Adani Ports & SEZ had also taken various steps at its terminals in Mundra, Dahej and other facilities. The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm, which had hit Gujarat coast in Saurashtra between Diu and Una around 9pm, ended around 12am on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department said. The authorities had snapped power supply in many areas of the worst affected coastal districts of Gir Somnath, Amreli, Junagadh and Bhavnagar, among others, in advance as a precautionary measure, while other areas reported blackouts as soon as the cyclone started making landfall. Many electricity poles were knocked out by strong winds. At Talala in Gir Somnath district, a mobile tower crashed, officials said. The cyclone caused damage to standing crops, the officials said. The popular Kesar variety of mangoes also bore the brunt of the cyclone in Gir Somnath and Junagadh districts, where they are mainly grown. All major highways leading to Somnath and Diu had been blocked by the authorities to prevent accidents, leading to a long queue of heavy vehicles such as trucks and tankers. At several places, roofs of thatched houses were blown away. Many areas of Ahmedabad city were inundated with knee-deep water following incessant downpour as Tauktae moved northwards along the district’s periphery. The city received a staggering 75.69mm of rain between 6am and 4pm, said municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. The rain intensified after 3pm. Traffic on several roads was hindered due to fallen trees and hoardings. In a tweet after midnight, the IMD announced that Cyclone Tauktae had weakened into a “very severe cyclonic storm” from “extremely severe cyclonic storm”. The regional meteorological centre said the cyclone would now move towards northern Gujarat and eventually weaken. “The cyclone would now move towards Amreli district and then towards Banaskantha in the north after crossing Surendranagar district. We expect that it will weaken as it moves forward,” said assistant director, Met Centre, Manorama Mohanty. Officials said the true picture of the devastation would emerge only on Wednesday morning as the extreme weather made it nearly impossible to go out at night. Major airports in Gujarat, including those at Ahmedabad and Surat, had shut down operations as a precautionary measure. Barring Rajkot airport, which will remain shut for flights till 11.15am on Wednesday, the ones at Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara opened on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid:  Hisar Municipal Corporation official dies after ensuring 300 funerals||An official of the Hisar Municipal Corporation, who ensured a dignified funeral for over 300 Covid-19 victims ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, succumbed to the disease barely two days after testing positive, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. Praveen Kumar, 43, died at a private hospital on Monday night, the spokesperson of the municipal corporation said. Kumar was the head of the team formed by the municipal corporation to cremate the bodies of coronavirus patients. “He had cremated over 300 bodies of Covid-19 victims so far since last year. He tested positive two days ago. He was admitted to a private hospital, where his oxygen level kept dipping, due to which he died,” the spokesperson said. Kumar was also the president of the Municipal Corporation Safai Karamchari Union here. His last rites were performed at a cremation ground in Rishi Nagar here on Tuesday according to the Covid guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: India sees a steady decline in daily new infections over the past 10 days||India’s Covid-19 epidemic is shrinking with a steady decline in daily new infections over the past 10 days despite stable numbers of tests nationwide, health officials said on Tuesday but cautioned against any laxity on precautions and public health measures. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded about 263,000 new Covid-19 cases over the previous 24 hours, a 36 per cent fall from a peak of about 414,000 cases on May 6, the drop driven mainly by declines in India’s top three most populated states — Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar. Some public health experts had expressed concern last week that declining or plateauing numbers of tests at a time the epidemic is growing could show up as an artificial fall in numbers. But health officials have said India has seen a “consistent upward trend in weekly tests” since mid-February with average daily tests increasing more than 2.5-fold over the past 14 weeks. India’s case positivity rate — the proportion found infected among those tested — which is a measure of the efficiency of detecting cases, has for the first time declined from 21 per cent to 16 per cent over the past week, after a steady increase over the previous 13 weeks. Ideally, it should be below 5 per cent. “The epidemic is shrinking overall and that has happened because there is a huge comprehensive containment effort,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. The decline, Paul said, “is because of what we’re doing… we cannot again let this go out of hand”. Sections of public health and medical experts have blamed the Narendra Modi government for helping accelerate the spread of the virus through potential superspreader events such as election rallies and the Kumbh Mela and for not doing enough to prepare for the surge. The health ministry in its daily update on the epidemic on Tuesday said India had for the first time recorded more than 400,000 recoveries of Covid-19 patients in a single day and described this as a “landmark achievement”. But epidemiologists say there is nothing surprising about that large number as it only reflects the quantum of daily new cases detected over the past two weeks and the country’s fairly steady case fatality rate of about 1.1 per cent. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded 4,329 deaths — the country’s highest-ever count — over the previous 24 hours, raising the total deaths to 278,719 among over 25 million lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections, or a case fatality rate of 1.1 per cent. The health ministry also said the number of lab-confirmed infections in India until now made up only about 1.8 per cent of the country’s population, compared with 10 per cent of the US population, 7 per cent of Brazil’s population and 9 per cent of France’s population. “Despite the large number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to less than 2 per cent of the population,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry. But health experts say this is a misleading fraction because a nationwide survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research, a unit of the health ministry, had found that about 21 per cent of the population had already been infected by January this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Kerala: K.K. Shailaja dropped from ministry ||K.K. Shailaja, Kerala’s celebrated health minister who had deftly managed two Nipah outbreaks and the coronavirus pandemic, has been dropped from the ministry to be sworn in on Thursday as part of an overhaul, triggering widespread dismay and earning chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan considerable flak. Although Shailaja, popularly called Teacher because she is a retired schoolteacher, has not been singled out as the CPM’s state committee has unanimously decided to remove all existing ministers while retaining Vijayan alone, her exclusion drew the maximum attention as she had over the past year been the face of Kerala’s much-appreciated battle against Covid-19. What made things worse for Vijayan was the decision to include his son-in-law Mohammed Riyaz and CPM acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan’s wife R. Bindu in the ministry. Both are long-term party workers and have worked their way up the ladder but their inclusion in the ministry did raise eyebrows. Together, these three decisions have eclipsed the swearing-in of the first consecutive LDF government in 41 years, breaking the four-decade tradition of Kerala alternating between the CPM and Congress-helmed combines every election. Add to this the criticism over Vijayan making an exception in the strict Covid protocol for the swearing-in ceremony by planning a gathering of 500 people in state capital Thiruvananthapuram which is under a strict lockdown. The new ministerial portfolios have not been announced yet. She (Shailaja) was, however, entrusted with the position of party whip, a CPM statement said. For the better part of Tuesday, the CPM was at the receiving end of bruising allegations of sexism and nepotism, and allegations that Shailaja’s increasing popularity had come in the way of the party’s distaste for the personality cult. In the evening, Shailaja, 64, herself sought to put the controversy to rest with a statement to the media. “It’s good that a new cabinet is coming. Everyone should get an opportunity. The party decided to make me minister the last time. It was a very good experience for me. But, there are many others in the party also.” “There is no need to be emotional…. I became the minister earlier because of the party’s decision. I have absolute satisfaction in what I have done. I am confident that the new team can perform better than me,” she said. “Not the individual but the system is showcasing the fight against the pandemic. I am happy that I could lead the team,” Shailaja added. What the CPM failed to explain was how the decision to drop all ministers — particularly Shailaja — fits in with the promise of continuity with which it had sought re-election. The management of the pandemic in Kerala was a major talking point of the elections and Shailaja’s role was acknowledged in her constituency Mattannur, which she won with the biggest margin ever in the state’s electoral history. Insiders maintained that the CPM was strictly following the decision not to repeat any minister except for the captain of the ship, Vijayan, whose control over the party has now strengthened further after the Assembly elections; particularly given the Left’s rout in Bengal. Ahead of the elections, Vijayan had decided not to give tickets to anyone who had had two terms in the legislature — ministers included. “When the party has decided to drop all other ministers, it would have been extraordinary to allow Shailaja to continue. That would be tantamount to the party succumbing to a media-created public opinion,’’ said a CPM leader, adding that her success as health minister was primarily because of a robust public health system that was already in place. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told The Telegraph that the decision to drop all outgoing ministers was taken by the party state committee. “This was discussed in the state committee and it took a unanimous decision,” he said, adding that the central leadership does not come into the picture unless its intervention was sought. Parallels were drawn between Shailaja and K.R. Gouri Amma, the doughty communist who died last week at 103. She had parted ways with the CPM on being denied the chief minister’s post in 1994 after being projected as one in the elections. Shailaja never gained that stature but the media exposure of the past year had made her a larger-than-life figure that apparently did not go down well with many in the CPM, which does not allow personality cults to develop barring some strongmen. Social media users responded sharply to Shailaja’s omission. They pointed out that it would not be good to change her at a time Kerala was witnessing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases. Many people made Shailaja’s photo their WhatsApp display picture to show solidarity with her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Dhankar's aggressive posturing exposes BJP Bengal rout shock||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s aggressive posturing and the CBI’s move to arrest state ministers is being defended in the BJP circles as a desperate move to protect the party’s base after the drubbing in the Assembly polls. Party insiders claimed the leadership doesn’t want to give out the message that they have given up on “Mission Bengal”, demoralised after the electorate thwarted the BJP’s high-decibel effort to wrest the key state. The sudden arrest of two of Mamata Banerjee’s ministers by the CBI on Monday has appeared to be the worst kind of vendetta politics, weeks after the ruling party at the Centre had decisively lost the state polls. The arrests have followed an aggressive attack by the Centre’s nominee Dhankhar, who has been hitting out at the chief minister over post-poll violence, appearing to make out a case for breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state. “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realise repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism,” governor Dhankhar tweeted on Monday, as a message to chief minister Mamata that clearly appeared to be warning to recommend central rule in the state. While this came in response to the angry protest by the chief minister and her party over the arrests of cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Dhankhar has been handing out similar threats over post-poll violence. “Cannot overlook such drifting from constitution @MamataOfficial. How can ruling party harmads (mercenaries) be law into themselves...,” the governor had tweeted on Sunday, after meeting people allegedly attacked by the Trinamul after the poll results. All this has been seen as a brazen move by the ruling party, not to accept the poll verdict, betraying an attempt to make out a case for imposing central rule in the state. BJP leaders in Delhi, however, claimed the aggressive intervention in Bengal was to protect the party’s vote base and also the newly elected MLAs, alleging attack from the Trinamul members. “Our workers and leaders on the ground are being attacked. If we don’t protect them, then they will be compelled to desert the party,” one BJP general secretary said. He acknowledged that the arrest of the ministers was excessive but defended saying they were needed to send out a message to the ruling Trinamul Congress to stop the attacks against BJP supporters. “If we don’t do anything then even a chunk of our MLAs could also be forced to defect,” the leader claimed. He also claimed that there was pressure on the central government to act from the RSS too. He claimed that even RSS cadres were under attack from the Trinamul. Despite this spin to justify the excesses, the fact remains that the defeat in Bengal has stung the current regime at the Centre and they are unable to accept it. Sections in the party, who have been critical of home minister Amit Shah’s brazen style of contesting polls, are pointing towards his silence post the Bengal verdict. Shah, who had turned into the aggressive face of the wrest-Bengal project, has chosen silence after the votes were counted on May 2. It’s widely believed that as the home minister he was masterminding the central government’s bid to hit out at the newly elected state government. “The way the CBI and the governor have been going, it clearly seems Amit Shah was trying to vent his frustration,” one former BJP MP said. Party insiders said Shah was “over-confident” of a victory in Bengal. One leader said that apart from the party’s feedback, a very credible professional survey company, that had been hired, had also predicted a comfortable victory for the BJP. The defeat seems to have shocked Shah and many in the party believe that the home minister was using the central government’s powers to go after the state government. Despite the threat to dismiss the newly elected state government, as regularly being underlined by the governor, party insiders ruled out the option, fearing it would be politically very harmful to the BJP. Party leaders said now that their bid to capture power in Bengal had failed, they were eyeing the next Lok Sabha polls. “We won 18 Lok Sabha seats in the state (in 2019) and we need to defend our turf and ensure we win these seats again in 2024,” one BJP leader said. Party leaders said that given Mamata’s emphatic victory it would be very difficult for the BJP to repeat the Lok Sabha tally from the state. Internally, the BJP also fears that the Bengal verdict would cast an impact on the Uttar Pradesh polls early next year by giving a boost to the Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: UP cops use car tyres to  burn a body||A video has emerged on social media purportedly showing five policemen in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district bringing out a body from the Ganga and burning it with the help of car tyres and petrol. The Uttar Pradesh administration has asked the police to step up vigil to stop people from dumping bodies into the rivers or burying them on riverbeds. Vipin Tanda, the district superintendent of police, has identified the five cops and suspended them on the charges of insensitivity and dereliction of duty. The authorities have been instructed to bury unidentified bodies at specified locations 50 metres from the river if they are not bloated, and cremate highly decomposed bodies. The video shows a villager of Phephna, on the orders of the five policemen, pouring petrol on the body 5ft from the river and burning it with the help of tyres. Tanda said: “Local people had informed the police on May 15 that dogs were pulling out a body from the river. The policemen went there to take stock of the situation and decided to burn the body instead of cremating it properly. It was an unwarranted and insensitive act. We have suspended the cops.” “An officer of the rank of additional superintendent of police is probing the case and further action will be taken against the constables after we receive the report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||National Human Rights Commission seeks UP jail firing report||The National Human Rights Commission on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to submit an action-taken report on the May 14 killing of three prisoners at Chitrakoot jail. Anshul Dixit, an undertrial, shot and killed Mukeem Kala and Meraz Ali, two gangsters, inside the high-security barracks of Chitrakoot jail before being shot dead by cops, according to police. The families of the trio have alleged planned killing by cops, a charge the police have denied. Acting suo motu on the basis of news reports, the commission asked the Uttar Pradesh DGP, the DM and SP of Chitrakoot and the jail superintendent to submit the report within 10 weeks. The commission has said the report should contain the following documents: n A detailed report covering all aspects leading to the death of the prisoners. n Copies of all relevant general diary entries or extracts including departure and arrival of police personnel before and after the encounter. ⚫ A copy of the seizure memo. ⚫ Medicolegal reports of the injured police personnel, if any. ⚫ Details of the criminal history of the deceased. ⚫ The site plan of the scene of occurrence giving all the details, including the positioning of the forces and the deceased during the encounter. ⚫ The inquest report. ⚫ The post-mortem report of each of the deceased, clearly mention whether blackening/charring/tattooing was present. ⚫ Videocassette/CD of the post-mortem examinations. ⚫ The result of the forensic examination of the “hand wash” of the deceased to ascertain the presence of gun powder residue. ⚫ The report of a ballistic expert on the examination of the arms and ammunition alleged to have been used by the deceased. ⚫ The report of a fingerprints expert, clearly mentioning whether the chance prints found on the seized weapon matches with the fingerprints of Anshul. ⚫ Details of the investigation agency and the case status. ⚫ The magisterial enquiry report along with copies of the statements of family members of the deceased and other independent witnesses. ⚫ Action taken on complaints by any relative of the deceased alleging killing in a fake encounter or negligence on the part of public servants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Lockdown in Odisha extended  till June 1 to check the Covid-19 surge||The Odisha government on Tuesday extended the lockdown across the state till June 1 to check the Covid-19 surge. The ongoing 14-day lockdown that started from May 5 was scheduled to end on May 19. The state has so far reported 6,33,302 Covid cases and 2,357 deaths. While all emergency services are allowed during the lockdown, all religious, educational institutions and establishments like cinema halls, shopping malls will remain closed. People going for vaccination will not be stopped by the police enroute the vaccination centre. However, the authorities in Rourkela have begun vaccination at doorstep for the senior citizens. Grocery and food shops in the state will remain open from 7am to 11am during the lockdown. “Street corner roadside shops, standalone shops dealing with food and essential items, vegetables, fish, meat, eggs and milk are allowed to operate on weekdays between 7am and 11am. Such shops shall maintain a minimum 30 ft shop-to-shop distance. The shopkeepers and the buyers shall mandatorily abide by the Covid safety protocols,” officials said. Weekly and daily haat shall continue to be closed. The weekend shutdown will remain in force on Saturday and Sunday. All government offices except those handling essential services will run with a skeletal staff of not more than 10 per cent. Private sector offices have been asked to run with not more than 33 per cent staff strength.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Allowance for Odisha Asha workers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday announced that all the accredited social health activist (Asha) workers, who are in charge of Covid isolation centres in the state, will be given a one-time allowance of Rs 10,000 to buy bicycles, sandals, umbrellas, torches and cupboards. He also said a door-to-door survey will be launched from May 24 to identify people showing Covid-19 symptoms. Naveen made this announcement while attending an all-party meeting convened by Odisha Assembly Speaker Surya Narayan Patro on Monday evening. At the meeting, he assured the MLAs that the state was using all the resources in its command to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. “The purpose of giving money to the Asha workers to buy bicycles and umbrellas is that they can visit people’s houses in the scorching heat and even when it rains without facing any problem,” an official said. In order to check the spread of coronavirus in the villages, Naveen announced that all the 46,106 gaon kalyan samitis (village welfare committees) would be activated and they would be engaged to tackle the virus at the rural level. Each samiti would be given Rs 10,000 to carry out this programme. “From May 24, Asha and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers would visit each household in the state to carry out a survey on Covid-19. They will collect information about any symptoms regarding Covid-19 noticed in any person. The survey will continue for three months. All of them will get an allowance of Rs 1,000 each for a month,” Naveen said. Naveen also told the MLAs that they could spend up to Rs 50 lakh from their Local Area Development funds towards Covid management in their constituencies. Children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be given pension under the Madhu Babu Pension scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||AAP hits out at Modi for telecasting parts of his interaction with the CMs and state officials||The Delhi government on Tuesday hit out at the Prime Minister for telecasting parts of his interaction with the chief ministers and state officials, following the chiding received by chief minister Arvid Kejriwal from Narendra Modi for live-streaming footage of an “in-house” meeting last month. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted: “In today’s meeting, the Prime Minister’s statement was aired live on TV. Objections were raised that CM @ArvindKejriwal had broken protocol by doing a live broadcast of the previous meeting. Today’s protocol allowed for live broadcast? How to know which meeting can be broadcast live, and which cannot?” Last month, Kejriwal live-streamed footage of himself pleading before Prime Minister Modi with folded hands to ensure oxygen supply to hospitals in the capital and accusing neighbouring states of holding up oxygen trucks. Modi had responded by saying: “What is happening is strictly against our tradition and protocol that a chief minister is showing live telecast of an in-house meeting.” The Delhi government’s retort came a day after the ruling Aam Aadmi Party embarrassed itself by singing the Hindutva tune to attack the Centre for exporting vaccines at a time when it had barely begun vaccinating Indians. Owning up to the posters put up across the capital criticising Modi for the floundering vaccination drive for which cops are investigating the party’s role, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak told reporters on Sunday: “Crores of vaccines of this country that could have been given to our children, that could have been administered to our mothers, which could have been given to our aged, those vaccines were sent abroad. They were sent to Pakistan, sent to Bangladesh, sent to Iran.” On Monday, the party tweeted names of Muslim majority countries such as Pakistan, Palestine, and Iran after a comment: “Whom did Narendra Modi take votes from: India. Whom did he give vaccines to:” Pakistan had expected to receive Covishield doses in March under its agreement with the GAVI alliance, but has not yet received any from India. The party’s remarks were severely criticised. The AAP later added the remaining 95 countries that have received vaccines from India. The list of Muslim countries was compared to BJP MP Tejasvi Surya naming Muslim technical assistants in Bangalore for a bed booking scam which later they were not found to be guilty of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Healthcare in smaller UP cities and villages is Ram bharose, says Allahabad HC ||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had in 2017 promised “Ram Rajya”, or the equivalent of an ideal state. Three years on, Allahabad High Court has observed that the healthcare system in the smaller cities and villages of the state was “Ram bharose”, or at God’s mercy. The bench of Justices Siddharth Varma and Ajit Kumar made the observation on Monday while going through a report submitted by the government on doctors at the state-run LLRM Medical College in Meerut failing to identify a deceased Covid patient and disposing of the body as that of an unidentified person. The court said: “If this is the state of affairs of treatment at a medical college in a city like Meerut, then the entire medical system of the state pertaining to smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like the famous Hindi saying: ‘Ram bharose’.” The high court, which had been hearing a PIL on the coronavirus spread and the condition of quarantine centres in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, had on May 11 directed a probe when a lawyer had informed it that he had seen social media claims of a patient missing from the medical college since April 22. The government probe revealed that the patient was Santosh Kumar, 64, who had been shifted to LLRM Medical College from the district hospital in Ghaziabad on April 21. Kumar, who had been kept in an isolation ward at the medical college, died the next day, following which the body was disposed of as that of an unidentified person as no doctor or other staff could identify him. Neither had any admission entry been made. “If doctors and paramedical staff adopt such a casual approach and show carelessness in the performance of their duty, then it is a case of serious misconduct because it is something like playing with the lives of innocent people. The state needs to take stern action against those responsible,” the court observed. According to the government’s report, Kumar fainted in the hospital washroom between 7pm and 8pm on April 22. Dr Tulika, a junior resident doctor on night duty, had deposed before the government committee that the Covid patient was lifted onto a stretcher and efforts were made to revive him, but he passed away. “By the time the efforts were being made, the morning team (of doctors) had arrived. However, it was admitted that the team in-charge who was on night duty, Dr Anshu, was not present,” the bench stated in the written observation. “Dr Tanishq Utkarsh (another doctor) got the body removed from the place and all efforts to identify the person went in vain…. The dead could not be identified. Thus, it was taken to be a case of unidentified body and even the team that was on night duty could not recognise it and so the body was packed in a bag and disposed of,” the court added. “From the narration of facts, as have emerged from the inquiry, it comes out to be a case of high degree of carelessness on the part of the doctors who were on night duty. It is quite surprising that Dr Tanishq Utkarsh and his team that was on duty at the time of admission of the patient on April 21 could not identify the person,” the bench said. Going through another report submitted by five district magistrates, the court said: “We have no hesitation in observing that the health infrastructure is absolutely insufficient in city areas to meet the requirements of the city population and in the rural areas the community health centres are virtually lacking in respect of life-saving gadgets.” The court directed the state government to provide sufficient healthcare infrastructure in compliance with its earlier direction. Multiple news reports have highlighted that the rural health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh is in a shambles, reeling from lack of proper treatment, doctors, medicines and oxygen amid the pandemic. The entire country and the world have watched in horror as thousands of bodies have been dumped in rivers, including the Ganga, and on banks as deaths have allegedly gone uncounted and families have failed to even ensure proper cremation with crematoriums overflowing and unscrupulous elements looking to fleece the bereaved. On Monday, the high court expressed dissatisfaction with the punishment handed to the errant doctors and paramedical staff at the Meerut medical college. Their annual increments have been withheld. “We are not satisfied with the way the state has dealt with this issue. A patient is admitted to a hospital in the absolute care of doctors and paramedical staff…. The state needs to take stern action against those responsible, maybe they are the highest in the ranks. It should compensate the dependents who have suffered the irreparable loss because of such carelessness,” the court said. Reacting to the lack of adequate healthcare facilities, the court gave the example of Bijnore. The court said that the urban population of the district as per the 2011 census was 9,25,312, which must have gone up 25 per cent by 2021, yet it did not have a Level-3 hospital that has ventilator facilities. The three government hospitals in Bijnore have a total of only 150 beds, five BiPAP machines and two high-flow nasal cannulas. The rural population of the district was around 27,55,000,according to the 2011 census. Yet, there are only 30 beds in the 10 community health centres taken together. “Meaning, one CHC can cater to the needs of only 0.01 per cent of the population and there is no BiPAP machine or high-flow nasal cannula available,” the court said, while also pointing to the shortage of oxygen concentrators and cylinders. The court directed the state government to constitute a three-member public grievance committee in every district. The complaints received by the committees will be discussed with the district nodal officer appointed by the state government, and each and every grievance will have to be redressed within 24-48 hours. The court suggested that big business houses that take benefits under taxation laws by donating to religious organisations may be asked to divert their funds for the procurement of vaccines. Every nursing home or hospital that has more than 20 beds should set aside at least 40 per cent for intensive care units, the court said. Every nursing home and hospital that has more than 30 beds must have an oxygen production plant, the court added. Every second and third-ier town of Uttar Pradesh should be provided with at least 20 ambulances and every village should be given at least two ambulances having intensive care unit facilities, the court suggested while fixing May 22 as the next date of hearing. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
