20-05-2021||India||Three killed in Bijapur encounter identified as part of front outfits for ultras||The three persons killed in an exchange of fire between security forces and Naxals who were part of a violent mob of villagers near a police camp in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district on May 17 have been identified as members of the front outfits for the CPI (Maoist), as per the preliminary probe by the police. The incident occurred on Monday afternoon when a large number of villagers was protesting against the newly set up camp near Silger, a Maoist stronghold located along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts. Human rights activists on Tuesday demanded a high-level probe after three people were killed in an exchange of fire between security forces and alleged Naxals near a new police camp in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district a day earlier. While villagers claimed security forces opened fire unilaterally on Monday, police said Naxals were part of the crowd that was protesting against the opening of the Silger camp and these ultras started the gun-battle. According to police, three persons were killed and five others injured in the incident. Local villagers had claimed the deceased and the injured persons were villagers and not Naxals. "The preliminary investigation revealed the three deceased were allegedly linked with front organisations of the banned CPI (Maoist) and police are trying to further ascertain this input," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said on Wednesday. Prima facie, the deceased were identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma), Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi and Kursam bhima, Militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur), the IGP said. All these formations are front outfits for Maoists that function at the village level, he added. The bodies have been handed over to their relatives, the police officer added. Of the five persons who were injured in the incident, four are found to be the members of the front outfits for the Maoists, the IGP added. The camp, where personnel from CRPF's 153rd and 168th battalions, CRPF's elite unit CoBRA, Special Task Force (STF) and District Reserve Guard (DRG) are stationed, was opened on May 12. Since May 14, residents from nearby villagers had been protesting demanding removal of the camp. Explaining the sequence of events, the IGP said the protesting villagers had left the spot on Sunday night after pacified by police officials and an executive magistrate but Maoists sent them back forcibly near the camp on Monday. Around 3,000 villagers armed with bows and arrows, axes, sharp weapons, sticks and stones charged towards the camp shouting slogans for removal of the camp on Monday afternoon. The mob hurled stones at security personnel positioned at the outer cordon, leaving many of them injured and causing damage to two Mine Protected Vehicles (MPVs) parked there, Sundarraj said. The crowd also tried to dismantle barricading around the camp and snatched rifles and magazines from security personnel, he said. "Meanwhile, ultras belonging to Jagargunda, Pamed and Kerlapal area committees of Maoists and other lower-rung cadres who were hiding in the crowd opened fire at security personnel. Despite warnings, they continued firing that triggered a stampede like situation," the officer said, adding the security forces retaliated in self-defence. After the situation normalised, the bodies of three persons were recovered. The injured persons were later admitted to a hospital, he said. Villagers had alleged that police lathi-charged them and fired unilaterally, a claim denied by the police. Alok Shukla, the convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan (CBA), a group of activists, on Tuesday alleged that police opened fire on tribals who were protesting against the camp. He demanded that the incident be probed by a retired judge of the High Court in a time-bound manner and an FIR be registered against the guilty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Aerosols from Covid-19 infected patients can travel up to 10 metres, warns govt||Nasal droplets fall within 2 metres from a Covid-19 infected person and the aerosols can travel in air up to 10 metres, the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser said on Thursday, adding that proper ventilation can decrease the risk of transmission. In its advisory 'Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic--Masks, Distance, Sanitation and Ventilation to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus', the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) noted that well-ventilated spaces play a crucial role in diluting the Covid-19 viral load of infected air and help in decreasing the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other . Saliva and nasal discharge in the form of droplets and aerosols carry the virus from one person to another. Larger size droplets fall to the ground and on surfaces, and smaller aerosol particles are carried in the air to greater distances, the advisory said. In closed un-ventilated indoor spaces, droplets and aerosols become quickly concentrated and greatly increase the risk of transmission to people in the area, it said. Droplets fall within 2 metres from an infected person and aerosols can be carried in the air up to 10 metres, it said. The earlier protocol was to maintain six feet (1.8 metres) distance to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. There have been instances of people taking to social media to express their anguish that they were infected despite not coming in contact with outsiders. Earlier this year, a study done by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad and the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTech), Chandigarh found that the infection can be transiently airborne. Scientists have also worked with a couple of hospitals to find if the virus particles can be found in air samples in the hospital wards. In its advisory, the Office of the PSA said ventilation is a community defence that protects all of us at home or at work. The advisory highlights the important role well-ventilated spaces play in diluting the viral load of infected air in poorly-ventilated houses, offices, among others. Ventilation can decrease the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other, it said. Just as smells can be diluted from the air through opening windows and doors and using exhaust systems, ventilating spaces with improved directional air flow decreases the accumulated viral land in the air, reducing the risk of transmission, the advisory explained. Ventilation is a community defense that protects all of us at home or at work. Introducing outdoor air in offices, homes and larger public spaces is advised. Measures to improve ventilation in these spaces must be taken up on urgent priority in urban and rural areas alike, recommendations for hutments, homes, offices and large centralised buildings are given. Simple strategic placement of fans, open windows and doors, even slightly open windows can introduce outdoor air and improve the air quality inside, it stated. Introduction of cross ventilation and exhaust fans will be beneficial in curtailing the spread of the disease, it said. In buildings with central air-management systems, improving central air filtration/increased filtration efficiency is especially helpful when enhanced outdoor air delivery options are limited. In offices, auditoriums, shopping malls, among others, use of gable fan systems and roof ventilators are recommended. Frequent cleaning and replacement of filters is highly recommended, it added. Saliva and nasal discharge in the form of droplets and aerosols, by an infected person while exhaling, talking, speaking, singing, laughing, coughing or sneezing is the primary mode of virus transmissions. An infected person who shows no symptoms can also transmit the virus. People without symptoms can spread the virus. People should continue wearing masks, double masks or N95 masks, it said in its advisory. The SARS-CoV-2 virus infects a human host where it can multiply, in the absence of the host it cannot survive, and stopping the transmission of the virus from a person to another person will decrease the infection rate of the disease to a level where it can eventually die, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Govt aims to ramp up Covid tests by June with at-home kits||The government aims to ramp up India's daily testing capacity for Covid-19 to 45 lakh by end of June from the current capacity of 16-20 lakh per day, the Centre said on Thursday as a record 20.55 lakh tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours. On augmenting testing for Covid-19, while ICMR has so far approved a home-based rapid antigen testing (RAT) kit manufactured by Mylab Discovery Solutions Ltd in Pune, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said kits by three more companies are in pipeline and likely to get approval within a week. Bhargava said kits for home testing will be available in the market in 3-4 days. Besides, Bhargava said for ramping up capacity the ICMR has validated more than 105 Rapid Antigen Tests companies and approved 41 of them. "We are doing 16-20 lakh tests this week and we have a capacity of about 20 lakh tests by end of the month and upto the end of next month we can have the capacity of up to 45 lakh because ICMR has validated more than 105 RAT companies and approved 41 of them and 31 of them are indigenous," he said. Out of the 45 lakh tests, 18 lakh will be RT-PCR, while 27 lakh will be Rapid Antigen Tests. More than 20.55 lakh tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours, the highest ever conducted in a single day in India. He further said all the states have placed the order and they are rapidly enhancing their testing capacity. "For home testing, you buy a test kit from a chemist shop then download a mobile app, register and read the user manual and then you conduct the test yourself and click the mobile image and upload the mobile phone gives test result. This ensures patient confidentiality, the data stored in a secure server and linked with the ICMR database," he said. In large cities, Bhargava said the focus was mainly on RT PCR which is the standard test but at the district level, the backbone of testing has been TrueNAT and CBNAAT, while in rural areas RAT is the backbone of testing. "In the second wave, we have to increase the RAT testing, we have written to all chief secretaries and they have acted upon it. Multiple 24X7 RAT booths to be set up in cities, towns and villages. "RATS to be allowed at all government and private healthcare facilities (no accreditation required). RAT booths to be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centres, RWA offices etc. All RT-PCR and RAT test results should be uploaded on the ICMR portal," he said. "We have encouraged testing at all primary health centres and sub-centres which are 1,87,601 so testing. Those testing positive can be isolated immediately and those testing negative and are still symptomatic. Their samples need to be sent for RT-PCR testing so they will have to go to a facility. But if the positivity rate is high then RAT will be able to isolate them very fast," he said. Bhargava said there are 2,553 government and private Covid testing laboratories established across the country over the last 16 months. Citing a study, he said that 50 per cent of people do not wear a mask. "Of the 50 per cent wearing a mask, 64 per cent cover their mouth but not the nose, 20 per cent have it on the chin and 2 per cent have them on the neck," he said, adding that 2,000 people were surveyed across 25 cities for the study. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said a continuous decline in the Covid-19 active cases has been noted in the last 15 days. "From being 17.13 per cent reported on May 3, the active cases now comprise 12.1 per cent of the country's total infections. A positive trend in recovery has also been noted. The recovery rate which was 81.7 per cent on May 3 has increased to 86.7 now," he said. Agarwal said India has witnessed a consistent upward trend in weekly tests since mid-February with average daily tests increased by 2.3 times in the last 12 weeks. "After a consistent increase in case positivity for 10 weeks, a decline in case positivity since the last two weeks has been reported," he added. Agarwal said the country's positivity rate in the last 10 has been recorded less than 20 per cent and the positivity rate was recorded at 13.31 per cent on Wednesday which was the lowest in a month. "Eight states have more than one lakh active cases, nine states have 50,000 to one lakh active cases and 19 states have less than 50000 active. A decline has been observed in six states which were major contributors to active cases in the country -- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh Gujarat," he said. Seven states have more than 25 per cent positivity rate, while 9 states have between 20-25 positivity rate. Twenty-two states have more than 15 per cent positivity rate, 13 states have 5 to 15 per cent positivity rate and one state has less than 5 per cent positivity, he said. Agarwal said the number of districts with a week-on-week increase in weekly tests and decline in positivity considered for the week has increased from 210 to 303 districts. "Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Jharkhand are 10 states where a decline in cases and decline in positivity in the last 3 weeks have been observed," he added. Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya Tripura, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram are states showing a rise in cases and a rise in positivity in the last three weeks, he said. Agarwal further said that there are 89 districts where a decreasing trend in cases is being noted and there are 123 districts where a decreasing trend in case positivity is being observed for the last three weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Death toll at sunk barge goes up to 49||Death toll on the barge that sank after being hit by severe cyclone Tauktae rose to 49 while 37 others still remain missing, government sources said. As many as 6,961 persons stayed safe at 342 oil and gas installations dotting the western coast when the severe cyclone Tauktae rammed through, but equipment malfunction at five vessels put 714 people at risk, leaving at least 49 dead and 37 other missing. Government sources said 7,675 persons were at 234 fixed and 99 floating oil and gas installations in the Arabian Sea before the cyclone made landfall on Monday night. Out of 99 floating units, 94 remained safe at appropriate locations at sea or shore. "Based on the weather warning, ONGC activated its emergency response system and issued instructions to all installations to take action as per the standard operating procedure," a source said. Complying with the same, appropriate actions including staying at the safe mode or returning to the safe locations at the anchoring points were taken by the respective installations. "Out of 7,675 personnel, 6,961 stayed safe at respective locations," the source said. However, the remaining five vessels, carrying 714 personnel, faced adverse situations such as snapping of wireline and anchors giving away. These included three barges working for private contractor Afcons at the ONGC site, one drillship Sagar Bhushan and an anchor handling boat. One barge, P-305 had decided to stay nearby the platform where it was working but its anchors gave away and it started drifting and went on to hit one unmanned platform before capsizing, they said. Of the 261 crew onboard, 186 were rescued while 49 bodies have been recovered. Search is on for the remaining 26, they said. As many as 440 personnel on the other two barges and drillships were brought to shore safely. Anchor handling board Varaprada was carrying 13 persons, out of which two have been rescued while the search for the remaining 11 is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan sworn in as Chief Minister of Kerala for the second time||CPI(M) veteran Pinarayi Vijayan, who led the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to an unprecedented consecutive victory in the April 6 assembly polls, on Thursday took oath as Chief Minister of Kerala for the second time along with 20 ministers. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan administered the oath of office to 77-year-old Vijayan and ministers in a low-key function at the Central Stadium here, which was held completely in accordance with the Covid protocol. Congratulating Vijayan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted:"Congratulations to Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on taking oath as CM and commencing his second term in office," It is the Marxist veteran's second stint in the top office. While 15 ministers including the chief minister took oath in the name of the Indian Constitution, five took it in the name of God. Representative of the Indian National League in the CPI(M)-led ministry, Ahamed Devarkovil, took oath in the name of Allah. The ceremony began after the Governor reached the venue at 3.30 pm and concluded at 4.50 pm. Opposition Congress-UDF leaders skipped the function in view of the Covid-19 spread. Ahead of the swearing-in, senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala telephoned Vijayan to congratulate him over the formation of the new ministry. He informed Vijayan that the UDF representatives will watch the ceremony virtually in view of the spread of coronavirus. The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the government to restrict the number of participants at the function in view of the pandemic. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, senior party politburo members, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran and leaders of various religious and caste organisations attended the function. Besides LDF workers, family members of MLAs also watched the function on TV considering the court directive that the ceremony can be viewed from the residence of the respective MLAs. An online musical fete featuring 54 singers, chronicling Kerala's achievements during the rule of various Left governments in the state since its formation, greeted the dignitaries at the venue. Noted singers including K J Yesudas, Hariharan, Sankar Mahadevan, Amjad Ali Khan, P Jayachandran, K S Chitra, Sujatha, and M G Sreekumar, besides music composer A R Rahman and actor Mohan Lal participated in the programme titled 'Nava Kerala Githanjali.'||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||HC warns Centre, Delhi govt against taking dip in Covid cases lightly||The Delhi High Court Thursday warned the authorities that they should not take lightly the dip in COVID-19 cases in the national capital as there is a likelihood that the virus would again raise its ugly head and hit the citizens badly and reminded them about their responsibility to create buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). The high court said it is the duty of the Centre and Delhi government to ensure that they are again not caught underprepared to deal with the situation. "If you have not taken steps, we will come and chase you again. We are telling you, we mean business. Please don't take it lightly we are again warning you," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh told the Centre. While the high court was told by the Delhi government counsel that it has created a buffer stock of 419 Metric Tonnes (MT) of LMO at different locations here and they are making arrangements for creating further stock in next 10 days, it noted that the Centre has not disclosed in the status report as to what steps it has taken to fulfill its obligation in terms of the Supreme Court's order. "This is a temporary phase. We know it is going to come back and hit us badly. We may remind both the Central and Delhi government that the responsibility to set up buffer stock has been cast upon primarily on the Centre and also on Delhi government by the Supreme Court vide its April 30 order," the bench, which heard the matter relating to various COVID-19 issues for over five hours, said. Besides Supreme Court, the high court had on May 4, directed the Centre and Delhi government to create buffer stock of 100 MT of LMO. The bench said, We would once again like to emphasis that mere reduction in number of cases of COVID-19 be not taken lightly and there is a likelihood of this virus again raising its ugly head and hitting people of Delhi, may be even harder as it is projected by scientists. So it is the duty of the Centre and Delhi government to ensure that they are again not caught underprepared to deal with the situation. The high court asked the Centre to file a specific report with regard to steps taken to create buffer stock positively by May 24. The Centre's counsel assured the court that they are not taking it lightly and are taking steps to create the buffer stock of LMO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rolls out free Covid vaccination for 18-44 age group||The free of cost Covid-19 inoculation drive in Tamil Nadu for beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 age bracket was inaugurated here on Thursday by Chief Minister M K Stalin. The vaccination exercise began at the Netaji Apparel Park here which has a 12,000 strong workforce and all eligibile employees would be administered the jabs, an official release said adding Stalin gave away certificates to beneficiaries. People in the 18-plus age range were the backbone of economy and in the first phase of vaccination for this group, Stalin has ordered vaccinating high-risk category people and industrial workers, the government said. All efforts were being made to procure as much as 3.5 crore vaccine doses through global bids and 1.5 crore under a system of allocation to states by the Centre for vaccination of those under 45 years of age. The union government had said that vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group should be implemented by the state governments. Stalin, in a tweet said vaccination is a big weapon that would win over the pandemic. The government has quickened action to ensure that all the people in Tamil Nadu received the vaccine and that is the goal, he added. Ministers including Ma Subramanian (Medical and Family Welfare), S Muthusamy (Housing), MPs, MLAs, Tirupur District Collector K Vijayakarthikeyan were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Centre asks states to make black fungus ‘notifiable’ under Epidemic Diseases Act||The Union Health Ministry has urged states and union territories to make black fungus or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid-19 patients. The ministry, in a letter, said that in recent times a new challenge in the form of a fungal infection namely mucormycosis has emerged and is reported from many states amongst Covid-19 patients, especially those on steroid therapy and deranged sugar control. "This fungal infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid 19 patients," Joint Secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said in the letter. The treatment of this fungal infection requires a multidisciplinary approach consisting of eye surgeons, ENT specialists, general surgeon, neurosurgeon and dental maxillo facial surgeon, among others, and institution of Amphotericin-B injection as an antifungal medicine. "You are requested to make mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, wherein all government and private health facilities, medical colleges will follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Gol) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "And, make it mandatory for all these facilities to report all suspected and confirmed cases to the health department through district-level chief medical officer and subsequently to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) surveillance system," the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Sonia writes to Modi, seeks free education for kids orphaned during pandemic||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education to children orphaned during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to the Prime Minister, she said the nation owes it to children to give them hope and provide a robust future after their tragedy. "I am writing to request you to consider providing free education at the Navodaya Vidyalayas to children who have lost either both parents or an earning parent on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. "I feel that as a nation, we owe it to them to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them," Gandhi told the prime minister. She noted that there have been news of young children losing one or both parents to COVID-19. "These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future," she said. The Congress chief also recalled how creation of Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country was her husband and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's most significant legacies. It was his dream to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented youth, predominantly from rural areas, she said. Gandhi said there are around 661 such schools across the country currently. There have been reports of children losing either an earning parent or both parents during the pandemic that has so far claimed over 2 lakh lives in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Dedicated centres to be set up for treatment of black fungus cases in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said dedicated centres will be set up for the treatment of black fungus or mucormycosis cases at three city government-run hospitals. He made the announcement after discussing the rise in black fungus cases with officials and specialists at a meeting here. "Three important decisions were taken at the meeting. Centres will be set up at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital for treatment of black fungus," the CM tweeted. The drugs used in the treatment of the fungal infection will be arranged in enough quantity and awareness will be created among people for prevention against the disease, he said. "We have to stop the spread of the disease and have to give best possible treatment to those suffering from it," he said in another tweet in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Modi stresses on need to prevent vaccine wastage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that the strategy to deal with Covid-19 should be dynamic, innovative and constantly upgraded as he underlined the dangers posed by the virus which, he noted, is invisible and often mutates. Describing the virus as "dhoort" (sly) and "bahurupia" (shapeshifter)  in Hindi, Modi in an interaction with district magistrates (DM) and field officials also underlined concerns expressed in various quarters about the threats it poses to the youth and children. He asked them to keep a track on it and record the spread of infection and its seriousness among them in their districts. Modi also said that there is a need to prevent vaccine wastage, saying every dose wasted is denying someone protection shield against the disease. He also said new challenges call for newer solutions. In his interaction with the second batch of officers on ways to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the first was on Tuesday, he asked them to work to rid the rural areas of the infection and talk to villagers to guide them. He said there is a need to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour even after the number of cases go down. While the cases have gone down in numbers, the challenge remains as long as the infection remains even at a minor scale, he said The prime minister praised the officials for their efforts in making the good use of existing resources to fight "the biggest disaster in 100 years". The officials, who interacted with Modi via video-conferencing, were from Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Death toll in Gujarat goes up to 53||As many as 53 people have lost their lives in incidents related to cyclone Tauktae in different parts of Gujarat, officials said on Thursday. Most of the casualties were due to incidents of wall collapse due to the cyclone, which made a landfall on Monday night near Una town in Gir-Somnath and wreaked havoc for around 28 hours before it weakened into a depression, an official from the State Emergency Operations Centre said. "As per the latest available information, as many as 53 people have lost their lives in various cyclone-related incidents across Gujarat," state relief commissioner Harshad Kumar Patel said. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-affected districts of Gujarat and announced a package of Rs 1,000 crore to carry out "immediate relief activities". Later, the Gujarat government approved a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the kin of those who have died due to various incidents related to cyclone Tauktae. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had also announced a compensation of Rs 50,000 for those who were injured due to the cyclonic storm. This compensation is in addition to the central government's compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured persons, said a government release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||37 on board sunk barge dead, 38  missing after Tauktae||With 38 people on board a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea four days ago still missing, Indian Navy ships worked through the night, using searchlights to trace any movement in the pitch dark waters, as hopes of finding more survivors began to recede on Thursday. The Navy on Thursday morning launched a fresh aerial search and rescue mission, deploying helicopters to scour the waters off Mumbai coast, where the accommodation barge P305 went adrift in Cyclone Tauktae fury before it sank Monday. As many as 37 personnel on board the barge are dead and 38 still missing, after Navy personnel, battling extreme weather, so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and two personnel from tugboat Varaprada. Naval ships INS Kochi on Wednesday morning and INS Kolkata late Wednesday night brought the bodies of these "Brave Natures Victims" to Mumbai, a Navy spokesperson told PTI. Chances of finding more survivors are looking bleak, another official said. Mumbai police have announced they will conduct a probe as to why the ill-fated barge remained in the turbulent area despite warnings about cyclone Tauktae, an official said. They registered an accidental death report (ADR) on Wednesday in connection with the death of the personnel on the barge. "The Navy's Search and Rescue (SAR) operations entered the fourth day today. Naval ships and aircraft are presently undertaking SAR of the missing crew members of Accommodation Barge P-305, which sank on Monday 35 miles off Mumbai," a Navy spokesperson said. Navy ships INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa, INS Teg, P8I maritime surveillance aircraft, Chetak, ALH and Seaking helicopters are involved in the SAR operations, he said. Another Navy ship INS Talwar was the On Scene Coordinator off Gujarat coast and assisted Support Station 3 (SS-3) and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels, he said. Navy ships were deployed on Monday after the Navy was informed that barge P305 had gone adrift off the Heera oil fields in Bombay high area with 261 personnel on board. The oil fields are around 70 km southwest of Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||India logs over 2.76 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,874 casualties in a day||With 2,76,110 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,57,72,440 while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 3,874 fatalities due to COVID-19 were registered in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,23,55,440, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.11 per cent, the data stated. The active cases have further reduced to 31,29,878, comprising 12.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.74 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,23,56,187 samples have been tested up to May 19 with 20,55,010 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,874 new fatalities include 594 from Maharashtra, 468 from Karnataka, 365 from Tamil Nadu, 280 from Uttar Pradesh, 235 from Delhi, 208 from Punjab, 193 from Uttarakhand, 157 from West Bengal, 153 from Haryana, 146 from Chhattisgarh, 139 from Rajasthan, 112 from Kerala, 106 from Andhra Pradesh and 104 from Bihar. A total of 2,87,122 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 84,341 from Maharashtra, 23,306 from Karnataka, 22,346 from Delhi, 18,734 from Tamil Nadu, 18,352 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,733 from West Bengal, 12,525 from Punjab and 12,182 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Gujarati poem criticises govt's handling of Covid resurgence||Perhaps it is the first time since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister that a poem written in his mother tongue Gujarati has not only criticised the government but also voiced the anguish of the common man at how the second coronavirus wave has ravaged us. May 11 is the day well-known Gujarati poet Parul Khakhar posted a poem, Shav-vahini Ganga, on her Facebook page. It spread like wildfire on social media. Gujarati literati were left numb, they knew not how to react to it. But common Gujaratis, many of who have nothing to do with literature, found it appealing and echoing their sentiments. They shared it widely. Within a day or two, the poem got translated into English, Hindi, Marathi and a few other Indian languages. Khakhar was praised for writing such a powerful and brave poem but also bombarded with abusive messages from troll armies. Khakhar, 51, is essentially known for her romantic poetry; political issues are not something she had earlier touched. She started her literary journey comparatively very late in life, after getting married, having had children and settled. Soon she earned herself a place of repute in Gujarati literary circles. She remains a normal Gujarati homemaker and seldom indulges in any political discourse. I have read poetry with her at several literary events in the past. Right-wing opinion is furious because her latest poem came like an unexpected bolt to them; Khakhar was not meant to be writing such stuff. She has never been anti-establishment. But the devastation around her because of the mismanagement of the second Covid wave and the catastrophic failure of the government completely shook her up from inside. This is what forced her to write such a political and radical poem. She has been trolled so heavily after she uploaded it that she has had to lock her Facebook profile. I happened to speak to her over phone on Monday morning. I congratulated her for not deleting her poem from social media despite such pressure. She replied, laughing lightly: “Why should I delete when I have said nothing wrong.” Her voice was reassuring. Her long-time admirers have turned their backs on her and distanced themselves from her and her poetry. I can relate to what Khakhar is going through right now. In October 2015 when I decided to write a letter to the President of India (then, the late Pranab Mukherjee) regarding the increasing culture of intolerance in the country, I had requested well-known writers and artists from Gujarat for their signatures on the appeal. Most of them morally supported the cause but refused to put their names on the appeal. Nobody was ready to take the risk of speaking the truth. Over recent years, they have acquired the habit of speaking in hushed tones for fear of being overheard. But I did receive support from artists, writers and filmmakers from outside Gujarat. They signed the appeal. One national newspaper put it on the front page and when that happened, Gujarati literati had gone numb. Subsequently, my name was dropped from many literary events and award nominations. We started a movement named Dakshinayan along with scholar Ganesh Devy and a few other writers and activist friends later that year. Khakhar’s poem has now galvanised the pro-establishment machinery into action. A well-known columnist from Gujarat dedicated her newspaper column to criticise the poem and questioned Khakhar’s intention. She said that it had now become a fashion to criticise the government. A few others have raised questions against the use of words like “fiddle” and “Billa-Ranga” in her poem. Many have become literary critics overnight and are passing judgement on the literary merits of the poem. A few turned poets too and wrote poetic replies. The intention is very clear: no other poet or writer should get motivated to follow Khakhar’s path. A bunch of pro-government writers and columnists landed on social media to argue for the government. Major Gujarati poets are silent. I do support Parul Khakhar’s poem and wrote about it openly on social media. I am getting calls from fellow Gujarati writers to step back. The discourse kicked off by Khakhar’s poem is unprecedented in recent times in Gujarat. I have received many calls over the past few days from the Gujarati diaspora regarding her poem and her poetic journey. Many who had never heard her name are supporting her poem. This poem has crossed boundaries of languages. Nobody can stop its journey now. Not even the poet herself. Mehul Devkala is a Baroda-based Gujarati poet and an award-winning filmmaker||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Plea in SC on PM CARES transparency||A transparency activist has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to place before it all data pertaining to the utilisation of the PM CARES Fund constituted to battle the pandemic. Mumbai-based Saket Gokhale said this was necessary as citizens were not entitled to any information under the RTI Act on the fund. The Prime Minister’s Office had earlier said the fund would not come under the purview of the RTI Act, a stand upheld by the Supreme Court last year. According to Gokhale’s petition, PM CARES had received donations from India and abroad and included salary contributions by employees and members of several ministries and PSUs. The PM CARES Fund is managed on a day-to-day basis by the under-secretary (funds) in the PMO. Gokhale submitted that on May 13, 2020, it had been announced that over Rs 3,000 crore had been allocated from PM CARES towards Covid-19 management, of which Rs 2,000 crore would be earmarked for the purchase of ventilators, Rs 1,000 crore for the care of migrant labourers and another Rs 100 crore for support to vaccine development. On January 5, 2021, it was announced that another Rs 201.58 crore had been allocated for the installation of 162 dedicated pressure swing adsorption (PSA) and medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities. However, in the proceedings before Delhi High Court and in media reports, there have been conflicting reports on the actual installation of these plants and PSAs, Gokhale stated. “The only information available in the public domain about allocations from the PM CARES Fund comes from statements and press releases issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). It is unclear whether, in addition to the allocations declared publicly, there have been other allocations made towards other Covid-19 related expenditure,” the petition said. The petitioner said the Centre had submitted before the apex court that no money had been allocated or spent towards Covid-19 vaccine development, and so the government had no control over deciding the pricing of the vaccines. “However, the PM CARES Fund itself has declared an allocation of Rs 100 crore towards vaccine development and it is unclear whether any additional funds were allocated for the same purpose,” the petition said. “It is, therefore, clearly established here by the applicant that the PM CARES Fund has played a major role in matters related to supplies, distribution and making available resources needed for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Indeed, the genesis of the PM CARES Fund itself was to establish a fund separate from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund which is solely dedicated to Covid-19 and other pandemic relief,” Gokhale said. “Under the present circumstances, it is important that the PM CARES Fund make available all information to this Hon’ble Court on the various allocations it has made towards fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and how it has monitored the progress of projects to which monetary allocations were made,” the petition said. Gokhale also submitted that the PM CARES Fund had claimed in various different ways that it was neither related to the government of India nor was it controlled by it. However, Gokhale claimed, the PM CARES Fund was not only administered by the Prime Minister and other ministers but it had also presented itself as a government of India entity through the use of the national emblem on its logo, the .gov Internet domain that is restricted to government entities, and contributions from various ministries and PSUs. “For the aforementioned reasons, the applicant contends that the PM CARES Fund is a non-governmental stakeholder that has been closely involved in decisions and projects that have been closely related to the distribution and supplies of essentials in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic albeit through the government of India,” the petition said. “For that particular reason, the applicant contends that the PM CARES Fund must be made a respondent in the present case and asked to submit details pertaining to its Covid-19 relief-related projects and their present status.” “The applicant, therefore, prays to this Hon’ble Court that the PM CARES Fund be (a) made a respondent in the present case, (b) asked to clarify details about the current status of the Fund and its links with the government of India, (c) asked to furnish details about funds allocated and progress made towards Covid-19 relief and the status of the projects sanctioned,” the petition added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Yogi govt to compensate kin of only three teachers who died on poll duty||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has decided to compensate the families of just three teachers who died while on panchayat poll shift although teachers’ bodies claim to have counted over 1,600 Covid deaths among teachers and other school staff posted on election duty. The state government will be granting ex-gratia only for the deaths that occurred during poll duty, ignoring those who died of Covid in the days and weeks after their assignment and had presumably caught the infection while on duty during the April 15-May 5 election process. “According to the Uttar Pradesh election commission’s guidelines, election duty refers to going from home to duty till coming back home. During this duty period, if there is any death, ex-gratia will be paid,” a statement from the state basic (primary) education department said on Tuesday. “Till today, district authorities have submitted verified data of death of three teachers.” Tribhuvan Singh, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Siksha Mitra Sangh, a teachers’ body, said: “Can anyone die of Covid within a few hours of the infection?” Teachers’ bodies have not just slammed the government’s “narrow” criterion for choosing the ex-gratia beneficiaries and threatened an agitation and a legal battle, they have also contested the figure of three deaths. The Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Shikshak Sangh has released a list of 1,621 teachers and other staff of primary schools who it claims died after contracting Covid while on panchayat poll duty. It has threatened a “mass movement” if all the bereaved families are not compensated. The Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh (RSM) has brought out its own list of 1,205 such teachers, but its data appear to be a few days older than the Prathamik Shikshak Sangh’s. “We shall move court unless the government amends its orders and gives ex-gratia to all those who died,” RSM joint secretary Shashank Pandey said. Dinesh Chandra Sharma, state president of the Prathamik Shikshak Sangh, said his list had every detail from names and addresses to the dates of poll duty, onset of symptoms and death, and invited the state government to “verify every name”. Noopur Giri, whose husband Divya Dristi Giri died of Covid after reporting for election duty, regretted the government decision to compensate just three families. “My husband was the headmaster of a primary school in Kanpur. He went for election training on April 11 and fell sick the same day. He died of Covid on April 26,” she said. “This criterion of death-during-duty-hours is illogical.” According to the state election commission guidelines, families of those who die “during duty” from accidents or violence are entitled to ex-gratia between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 30 lakh. On May 8, death from Covid was added to the list but without a clarification on the period within which such deaths should have occurred. Tribhuvan, the Siksha Mitra Sangh official, said the addition of Covid deaths was just “eyewash” in the absence of an extension of the period of “poll duty” in the context of the epidemic, where infection and death are often separated by weeks. “At the election training centres, teachers were made to sit close to one another. No Covid protocol was followed. Many teachers got Covid at the training centres, many others while dealing with the public while on election duty,” he said. Pandey said some of the basic education department’s district-level offices had released their own lists of teachers who had died of Covid while on poll duty showing, for example, 12 deaths in Allahabad district and 26 in Rai Bareli. “If the government does not accept our list, at least it should accept its own district officials’ lists. They should pay ex-gratia accordingly,” Pandey said. An email sent to the additional chief secretary in charge of the basic education department, Renuka Kumar, asking why no ex-gratia would be paid to families of teachers who died after poll assignment has brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Gadkari caught 'unaware' on advocating jab production ramp up||Thanks to a nimble-footed Nitin Gadkari, one of the senior-most colleagues of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the nation now has it on authority that some within the government itself, like countless other citizens, are “unaware” what is happening on the Covid front. Union road transport minister Gadkari had on Tuesday advocated that more companies be allowed to manufacture Covishield and Covaxin. The suggestion echoed what former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had proposed last month in a letter to Modi that received an acid-dripping reply from health minister Harsh Vardhan. Between Tuesday and Wednesday, powers higher than the letter-drafting skills of Vardhan appeared to have come into play, spurred, no doubt, by an Opposition question whether Gadkari’s “boss” is listening. Overnight, Gadkari clarified that he had been “unaware” that the government had already “started these efforts”. BJP insiders said Gadkari had been “pressured” into issuing the clarification after the Opposition used his suggestion to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A senior minister like Gadkari being “unaware” of the steps taken to battle a national emergency would provide a measure of how deeply centralised decision-making in the Modi government is. What the episode implies is that the decisions being taken at the top are not being discussed in the cabinet, although the constitutional scheme mandates cabinet approval for key measures. Gadkari’s suggestion on Tuesday for a vaccine ramp-up had been directed at junior chemical and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya at a virtual event organised by RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch. “Instead of one, let 10 more companies be given the licence for vaccine manufacturing.... There are 2-3 laboratories in every state that have the capacity. They should be given the (vaccine) formula and they can give royalty,” Gadkari had said. On Wednesday, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh cited Gadkari’s remarks to take a dig at Modi. “But is his (Gadkari’s) Boss (Modi) listening?” Jairam tweeted, attaching a video of the minister’s comments. “This is what Dr Manmohan Singh had suggested on April 18.” Within a few hours, Gadkari had posted three tweets, virtually apologising for his earlier comment. “Yesterday while participating at the conference... I made a suggestion to ramp up vaccine production. I was unaware that before my speech Minister for Chemical & Fertilizers... had explained government's efforts to ramp up,” Gadkari wrote. “I was unaware that his ministry has started these efforts before I had given suggestion yesterday.” On Tuesday, Gadkari had addressed his suggestion specifically to Mandaviya, who had nodded in apparent agreement without clarifying that his ministry was already on the job. Manmohan had in a letter to Modi on April 18 suggested the “government must proactively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions”. The chief ministers of Delhi and Maharashtra too had written to Modi suggesting the formulas for Covishield and Covaxin be shared with capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production. Gadkari has in the past been known to take oblique swipes at his party and government’s top leadership. Opposition members have several times lauded Gadkari in Parliament as the “best-performing” minister, which would not have gone down well with the leadership, either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Covid toolkit: Congress turns up forgery heat on BJP||The Congress has demanded a fair investigation, including forensic examination of documents being produced by the BJP, to bust a Covid “toolkit” that the Opposition party has claimed was prepared by merging forged and false papers with pilfered research material. The Congress said the BJP was resorting to mud-slinging to divert attention from the “catastrophic consequences of the pandemic mismanagement”. The Congress has lodged police complaints accusing the BJP of forging the Opposition party’s research wing letterhead and adding fabricated materials to a genuine document on the Central Vista project to create the impression that the Congress had prepared a toolkit to malign the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged mismanagement of the pandemic. The fact-checking website AltNews also examined the Congress document, titled Central Vista Redevelopment — Vanity Project Amidst the Pandemic, and the purported toolkit and found distinct differences between the letterheads, letters, fonts and alignments. Going into details, AltNews has pointed out that the font of the alphabet “M” for the letter “May” used in the toolkit does not match the one on the Vista document. Also, the page numbers on the Vista document use Roman numerals while those on the toolkit use English numbers. AltNews concluded that the AICC research department letterhead had been tampered with in the toolkit document. Moreover, the website pointed out, the BJP had produced screenshots of the purported toolkit, not the original document, raising questions on authenticity. The crux of the Congress’s allegation, which has been backed by research by AltNews, is that four pages from the genuine six-page Central Vista document had been used, probably to create an impression of authenticity, and another four pages of forged documents had been added to prepare the toolkit the BJP was tom-tomming. The allegation is that the portion of the “toolkit” that tells Congress workers, volunteers and supporters to use the term “super spreader Kumbh”, “not comment on Eid gatherings”, respond to Covid SOS messages “only if a person tags the IYC handle”, “use dramatic pictures of funerals and dead bodies which is already being done by foreign media” is false. This portion also urges social media volunteers to call the new Covid variant pummelling India the “Modi strain”. The Congress’s Central Vista document, portions of which have been incorporated in the toolkit, is a background note on policy and the issues facing the nation and had been circulated internally. The Congress has alleged that this document was obtained illegally by the BJP to prepare the fake toolkit. There is nothing wrong in parties creating research materials for their foot soldiers to gain comprehensive knowledge on topics and prepare talking points. The Congress has named BJP national president J.P. Nadda, Union minister Smriti Irani, party spokesperson Sambit Patra and general secretary in charge of organisation B.L. Santosh, among others, in its police complaints in Delhi and Jharkhand, accusing them of trying to tarnish the Opposition party and create social disharmony. On Wednesday, Patra, who had started off the controversy on Tuesday by making the toolkit claim at a news conference, made public what he claimed was “metadata” of the alleged toolkit. The metadata, or a set of data that describes and gives information about other data, had the name of the author of the document — Saumya Varma, who works for the Congress’s research department. The “metadata” is that of the Central Vista portion of the toolkit and would have the footprints of the creator, in this case Verma from the research wing of the Congress. The Congress wondered why Delhi police were not registering an FIR on the basis of its complaint. The Congress has decided to pursue the matter with vigour after Wednesday’s fresh attempt to allegedly spread falsehood. Congress research department head Rajeev Gowda told The Telegraph that the party document on Central Vista — the project to construct a new Parliament building and residences for the Prime Minister and other VIPs — had been pilfered and used to prepare the “toolkit”. The Vista document was by no means intended to malign anybody but a regular research paper on how the government was pushing ahead with a Rs 20,000-crore vanity project amid a devastating pandemic, the Congress maintains. “We said yesterday that the Central Vista document is genuine, prepared by us as background paper. That is a document based on facts. The BJP somehow got that document. They used that as a model to fraudulently create a document on Covid, which they released yesterday. They play cynical games. Today, Sambit Patra used the metadata of our genuine document to attribute it to the fake document,” Gowda said. “They are trying to create confusion over the real document with the fake paper they created. What is needed now is a forensic examination of all the documents. What is the point of making wild allegations and spreading lies? Let there be a fair investigation.” Gowda, a former IIM professor, lamented that Varma, the Congress research department employee, had been trolled so badly that she had to disable her social media accounts. “If the BJP is caught forging documents, they will unleash trolls and mount a massive propaganda to hide their misdeeds,” Gowda said. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala objected to the delay in the registration of an FIR on the party’s complaint with Delhi police, alleging that the force was trying to save the BJP leaders. “Whatever they do, Patra, and probably Nadda too, will have to go to jail for this forgery,” he said. Surjewala asserted that an elaborate drama had been enacted to divert people’s attention from the real issues. “It is a classic Narendra Modi diversionary ploy. They are desperate to divert attention from the catastrophic consequences of the Covid mismanagement, the horrendous sight of thousands of bodies strewn on the riverside in Uttar Pradesh, people dying because of lack of oxygen and medicines being sold in the black market. They have quietly increased the prices of fertilisers to break the backbone of farmers. These are the real issues they want to escape from,” the Congress’s chief spokesperson said. Never in the history of independent India had any government increased the prices of fertilisers so steeply, Surjewala said. “There was already an additional burden of Rs 15,000 per hectare annually because of a rise in input costs. Now the Modi government has quietly raised the price of a 50kg bag of DAP fertiliser from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,900. A Rs 700 jump per bag has never happened. Prices of all other fertilisers have been increased,” he said. “Is there a conspiracy to destroy the farmers, turn them into slaves? This is a loot of Rs 20,000 crore annually. Controversies like the toolkit are required to avoid these critical questions.” The Congress has decided to observe the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21 by distributing relief materials, food and medicines among Covid patients and their relatives at hospitals, arranging ambulances for funerals and creating awareness on wearing masks. All MLAs and MLCs have been asked to make arrangements for free service by at least two ambulances in their respective areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Three-month vaccine wait for survivors||People who have contracted Covid-19 should defer their vaccinations for three months, India’s health ministry said on Wednesday, accepting an expert panel’s recommendations made last week. The ministry said people who had had a lab diagnosis of Covid-19, those who had received convalescent plasma or monoclonal antibody therapy, and those who had developed the infection between their first and second vaccine doses should defer the vaccination for three months. The decision comes amid growing evidence that Covid-19 protects people from re-infection for several months and a lack of evidence yet that the fast-spreading coronavirus variants observed in the country have increased the re-infection rates, health officials and medical researchers said. The recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), a body of medical experts, mean that several million people who have recovered from Covid-19 in recent weeks but have not taken the vaccine should wait while uninfected people get vaccinated. More than 6.8 million people who have recovered from Covid-19 across the country over the past three weeks (between April 28 and May 19), for instance, would need to wait until July 28 to August 19 before they can get their jabs. The decision would allow unprotected people to get vaccinated faster at a time states across the country have offered Covid-19 vaccines to all adults 18 years and above despite vaccine shortages. A technical group within the NTAGI had last week suggested that people who had recovered from Covid-19 be asked to defer vaccination by up to six months, as reported by this newspaper on May 14. “The evidence for protection up to six months after the infection is strong,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a member of the technical group. The recommendation to defer vaccination for three months was based on evidence from outside India and observations within the country that show a “near-zero” risk of re-infection within three months after recovery, said Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the government on vaccination and a group member. A study in the UK that covered over 25,600 people and was published last month had found that a previous Covid-19 infection had a protective effect for up to seven months. “The time is three months instead of six or nine months because the longer the gap, the greater will be the chance of getting a re-infection,” Samiran Panda, head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, told The Telegraph. An ICMR study had earlier this year found 58 (4.5 per cent) re-infections among a sample of 1,300 people. “Data generated by the ICMR contributed to the decision on how long one could wait following natural infection to seek vaccination,” Panda said. Many epidemiologists and doctors believe that re-infections have remained rare despite the emergence of fast-spreading variants such as B1.117, first observed in the UK, or B1.617, first detected in India. The UK study did not find any evidence that the increasing prevalence of B1.117 had adversely affected re-infection rates. A senior health official and a medical researcher said there was no evidence yet that B1.617, which has likely contributed to the sharp increase in cases during India’s second wave, is also causing an increase in re-infections. “To assess an increase in re-infections, we need strong baseline data,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Morcha asks Centre to initiate a dialogue and accept their demands||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella outfit of protesting farmers, on Wednesday warned the Centre against testing their patience and asked it to initiate a dialogue and accept their demands, as spells of rain compounded the woes of peasants camping on Delhi’s borders amid the pandemic. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been picketing three border points of the capital — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — for almost six months, demanding repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price. “More than 470 farmers have been martyred during the movement. Many agitators have had to leave their jobs, education and other work. The government’s attitude shows how inhuman and careless it is towards its own citizens, the ‘annadaatas (food-givers)’. If the government cares about its farmers and wants their welfare, then it should initiate dialogue with the farmers and accept their demands,” the SKM said in a statement, warning the government to “not test the patience of farmers”. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and the government, but the deadlock has continued. When the BJP government, which “pretends” to look after the welfare of farmers, takes “full credit” for increasing production or export of crops, it should also take responsibility for every “human loss and other losses” taking place on the borders of Delhi, the SKM said. The spells of rain in Delhi on Wednesday under the impact of Cyclone Tauktae, according to the protesting farmers’ union, has caused a great deal of “disruption and losses” at the agitation venues. “It has been a chaotic situation with regard to food and accommodation due to the rains. Roads and several parts of the protest sites have been filled up with rainwater,” the farmers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal tweets emergence of new Singapore strain, kicks up diplomatic row||Arvind Kejriwal has kicked up a diplomatic row with Singapore with his social media claim about a Covid strain in that country, drawing a sharp response from the city state that was in turn used by the Narendra Modi government to settle political scores with its bête noire in the national capital. After Kejriwal’s remarks were splashed across newspapers in Singapore on Wednesday along with the Singaporean health ministry’s rebuttal, the country’s foreign minister first publicly ticked off the Delhi chief minister. The Singapore government then summoned India’s high commissioner who clarified that Kejriwal had no competence to speak on Covid variants or determine India’s civil aviation policy. Later in New Delhi, Singapore’s high commissioner expressed satisfaction with India’s clarification while stating that his country reserved the right to invoke the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (PoFMA) against Kejriwal. On Tuesday, Kejriwal had tweeted in Hindi that a new Covid strain that he claimed had emerged in Singapore was reported to be very dangerous for children and that it could trigger a third wave in India. He had demanded a temporary ban on flights from Singapore and a plan to vaccinate children. Responding to Kejriwal’s tweet, Singapore’s foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan told him on the micro-blogging site: “Politicians should stick to facts! There is no ‘Singapore variant’.” This was followed by the summoning of the Indian high commissioner in Singapore, which was officially confirmed by the Indian external affairs ministry. Rarely does the ministry officially confirm such summons of mission heads by the host country. External affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi tweeted: “Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM’s tweet on ‘Singapore variant’. High commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy.” Kejriwal, however, had not used the specific term “Singapore variant”. Subsequently, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar tweeted: “Singapore and India have been solid partners in the fight against Covid-19. Appreciate Singapore’s role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. Their gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship. “However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify — Delhi CM does not speak for India.” A Twitter user was quick to point out if any such comments had been made when a leader had called people from Bangladesh “termites”, a reference to Union home minister Amit Shah’s diatribe on “infiltrators”. Thanking Jaishankar for the clarification, his Singaporean counterpart Balakrishnan said: “Let’s focus on resolving the situation in our respective countries and helping one another. Nobody is safe until everyone is safe.” Late in the night, Singapore health ministry invoked PoFMA to issue correction notices to Facebook and Twitter that there is no “Singapore strain”. The Aam Aadmi Party took on Jaishankar for what it saw as a dilution of the core issue raised by Kejriwal. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said: “Central Government (is) interested in glorifying its image in Singapore and other nations rather than protecting our children. Issue is not Singapore, it is about protecting our children. When will our Central Government wake up to save our nation’s children from the third wave?” Kejriwal himself did not comment on the controversy but tweeted about a meeting he held on preparing for the impending “third wave” from which “children need to be saved”. On May 4, the Singapore health ministry had referred to the B.1.617 strain as the “Indian variant” as an explanatory note in a daily update. Detailing the variants in Singapore, the ministry had said: “As of 3 May 2021, we have detected eight local cases with the B.1.351 (S. African) variant, seven local cases with the B.1.1.7 (UK) variant, seven local cases with B.1.617.2 (Indian) variant, three local cases with P1 (Brazilian) variant, three local cases with B.1.617.1 (Indian) variant, and one local case with B.1.525 (UK2) variant.” Given how India has bristled at the strain being referred to as the “Indian variant”, The Telegraph asked the Indian external affairs ministry on Wednesday if the high commission in Singapore had red-flagged this reference with the government there. Till late in the evening, there was no response from the ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha Human Rights Commission glare on oxygen and medicine black marketing||The Odisha Human Rights Commission (OHRC) has asked the Odisha government to initiate steps to prevent black marketing of oxygen and life-saving drugs. It has also sought a detailed report from the government on the alleged black marketing of oxygen and drugs. Taking suo-motu cognizance of a media report in this regard on Wednesday, it asked the Director General of Police to ensure that people involved in such activities are put behind the bars and directed the government to abide by the advisory issued by National Human Rights Commission on the issue of burial. It also advised the state government to save people from exploitation by unscrupulous elements. The flow metre attached to an oxygen cylinder whose cost was Rs 1450 only two months ago, is now being sold at Rs 3,500. Similarly, the small size B-type 10 litres oxygen cylinder which was sold at between Rs 8,000 and Rs 9000 four months ago, is now being sold at anywhere between Rs 35,000 and Rs 40,000. But most of the time, these are not available in the open market. Similarly, oxygen concentrators are out of bounds for the common man. One of the businessmen in Bapuji Nagar dealing in the products told The Telegraph, “We are depending on supplies from Mumbai. As the people have increased the price of these products, we have no option but to charge the public.” “We will comply with all the issues raised by the OHRC. The OHRC also appreciated the state’s move on framing a unitary chart for the ambulance on fixing of rates,” the government officials said. “We have constituted a state level task force for medical oxygen management. The task force will implement a master plan for provisioning medical oxygen in all healthcare facilities,” officials said. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has decided to vaccinate family members of the healthcare providers who are exposed to Covid-19 infection because of the nature of the job of healthcare providers. The number of Covid deaths in Odisha reached 2,378 with the death of another 21 persons in the last 24 hours. Former Odisha cricket team captain and match referee Prasanta Mohapatra, son of eminent sculptor Raghunath Mohapatra, succumbed to Covid on Wednesday. Sculptor Raghunath had passed away on May 9. Prasanta had played 45 first class matches and 17 domestic one-dayers. He officiated in over 40 domestic matches. “Mr Prasanta Mohapatra (Ex-Ranji Trophy Cricket and BCCI Match Referee) breathed his last today early morning at Bhubaneswar. On his sad and untimely demise the OCA expresses its deepest condolence. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family,” Odisha Cricket Association tweeted on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Informal volunteer groups step up as India battles the second wave||Every day after he wraps up the online classes he teaches at a Bangalore college, Akshay Mandlik puts on his mask, gloves and overalls and heads out to help bury the Covid dead. The 37-year-old professor of social work is one of many citizen volunteers across India who have stepped up to help families affected by the country’s devastating second wave, often risking their own personal safety. Mandlik helps grieving relatives find burial spaces, carry the dead and even dig graves when no gravedigger is available. “I took some time to think about getting involved as I am not vaccinated, but the need of the hour was greater than my own fear,” Mandlik said. India, the world’s biggest vaccine producer, has fully vaccinated just over 40.9 million people, or only 3.3 per cent of its 1.35 billion population as of Wednesday. Volunteers say they have been moved to act by desperate pleas for help on social media and in their local communities. Brothers Murthaza Junaid and Muteeb Zoheb, both well-known motorcycle racers and entrepreneurs, are now volunteering as ambulance drivers in Bangalore, responding to hundreds of calls every week. Zoheb, 33, said he and his brother decided to volunteer a month ago after hearing accounts of families being overcharged by professional ambulance services. With the epicentre of India’s second wave constantly shifting, Bangalore’s Covid-19 death toll passed 10,000 on Tuesday and its daily number of new infections has overtaken those of Mumbai and New Delhi. More than a third of Bangalore’s fatalities have occurred so far in May. Informal groups of volunteers have sprung up, with the likes of IT professionals, investment bankers, estate agents and students working together to locate critical care beds, stocks of remdesivir, oxygen concentrators or ambulances. Azmat Mohammed, 44, said he had taken a sabbatical from his job in IT to help full-time, while law student Akshaya, 22, said she was balancing classes with her Covid volunteering. “I believe that if we do good, you get back good,” said Akshaya, who prefers to use only her first name. “I attend classes and go to the cemetery for burials. I also spend time collaborating with other people to help with ambulances. It is a lot of multi-tasking.” With the second wave spreading beyond the large cities, similar groups have been formed in smaller towns and cities as well. At Surat in Gujarat, volunteers at the Khan Trust and Ekta Foundation are working to cremate Covid-infected bodies in the region. During the 2002 Gujarat riots, Surat experienced some of the worst violence, but the pandemic has diluted some of the residual hostility between communities, volunteers say. Sahil Sheikh, in his 20s, said he and his friends had conducted the final rites for nearly 800 people in the past year, of all religions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: UP teachers' body releases list of 1,621 who died on poll duty||The Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Shikshak Sangh has released a list of 1,621 primary school teachers and other staff who it claims died after contracting Covid while on duty during the April 15-29 panchayat elections or the May 3-5 counting. The Sangh, an association of primary teachers, has demanded that the Yogi Adityanath government give each bereaved family a compensation of Rs 1 crore and a job. However, the state government claims that only three teachers died of Covid while on poll deputation — a figure contested by the Shikshak Sangh — while remaining silent on the deaths that occurred afterwards. It has passed the responsibility for compensation on to the state election commission. “We have prepared a list that anybody can verify,” the state president of the primary teachers’ association, Dinesh Chandra Sharma, told reporters. “We have given their names and addresses along with the dates on which they were on poll duty, the dates on which they fell ill and the dates on which they died and where.” He added: “We invite the state government to form a committee and verify every name. We shall start a mass movement if our demands are not met soon.” State health minister Jai Pratap Singh dismissed the association’s claim. “There’s a protocol for election duty and for coronavirus patients. Those who were infected must have stayed away from the election process,” he said, conveniently sidestepping the association’s allegation of teachers getting infected while on poll duty. “I think infected people would themselves choose not to join election duty and the authorities would not force them,” Singh added. Sharma alleged that district officials had refused to listen to teachers who said they were unwell and threatened to register FIRs against them if they didn’t report for election shift. “Some 250 or so died on election duty. Most of the others who have died came in contact with coronavirus-infected people during the election and counting, fell ill and died in home isolation or in hospital. Some died while returning home,” he said. The list of 1,621 includes 68 from Azamgarh, 35 from Lucknow, 46 from Allahabad, 50 from Gorakhpur and 53 from Rae Bareli. The figure is above 25 in 23 of the state’s 75 districts, Sharma said. “We have their medical reports,” Sharma said. The basic (primary) education department has in a statement said that according to poll panel guidelines, the state election commission is responsible for the well-being of polling officials from the time they leave home for election work to the time they return home, and pays compensation to the families of those who die in this period. “The district magistrates have certified the deaths of three teachers and sent this information to the state election commission…. We appeal to all not to get confused over misleading news,” the statement said. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday: “The insensitive UP government is rejecting the UP Shikshak Sangh’s list of 1,621 dead teachers who were on election duty, and is claiming that only 3 died. The teachers didn’t get proper facilities and treatment when they were alive, and now the government is denying them respect after their death.” Unofficial reports claim some 600 secondary and higher secondary school teachers too have died of Covid after catching the infection during election duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court nod for jabs at home ||Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Mumbai municipal corporation if it was possible to introduce a door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign for senior citizens and disabled persons who are unable to visit inoculation centres. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said if the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was willing to start a door-to-door vaccination programme for these groups, the high court would grant it permission even though the central government had not given its nod to such a drive. The bench noted that it seemed the Centre was not keen on starting such an initiative. “If the BMC says it can start door-to-door vaccination, we will give it permission. No need to wait for the central government’s nod. Will you come to the help of elderly citizens? Even though the Centre is not giving the green signal, we are willing to give you (the BMC) the green signal,” Chief Justice Datta said. “Will the BMC be able to go to the houses of those persons who cannot step out… and vaccinate them?” the court asked. The court directed BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal to file an affidavit on Thursday stating if it would be possible for the civic body to introduce a home-based vaccination drive with proper medical care for senior citizens, disabled persons and those who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The court said it would hear the matter further on Thursday, noting that each day was precious during the pandemic. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking a direction to the central government to initiate a door-to-door vaccination campaign for senior citizens above the age of 75, persons with physical disabilities and those who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The high court had earlier asked the Union government to take a relook at its policy that said doorstep vaccination was not possible because of various reasons such as wastage of doses and non-availability of observation centres for beneficiaries after they are inoculated. On Wednesday, additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, appearing for the Union government, told the court that an expert committee had been set up to look into the issue. The committee held a meeting on May 18 and submitted suggestions such as transporting people who are unable to move out of their homes on stretchers to vaccine centres, Singh said. The additional solicitor-general added that a standard operating procedure would be issued by the government. The court, however, noted that the experts on the committee might be academics but they seemed to have zero knowledge about ground realities. The bench said there were many places in the country where buildings were situated in narrow lanes and it would not be possible to bring out a person on a stretcher. Chief Justice Datta gave the example of Calcutta, where he was born and brought up, and said many buildings in the city were situated so close to each other that it would not be possible to take a stretcher there. Justice Kulkarni pointed out there were old buildings with wooden staircases in Mumbai too. “There are many households in our country that are situated in narrow bylanes and elderly citizens and disabled persons living here may not be able to come out. Are you (the Centre) saying that these persons are not entitled to get the vaccine? How do you cater to the needs of such people?” the court asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: ICMR approves fully-at-home RAT diagnostic kit||India’s health research agency on Wednesday approved the country’s first fully-at-home, over-the-counter Covid-19 diagnostic test that detects protein fragments of the coronavirus in nasal swabs, five months after US regulators approved a similar test. The Indian Council of Medical Research said it has approved a rapid antigen test (RAT) diagnostic kit from the Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions for use only in people with symptoms and immediate contacts of lab-confirmed cases. The agency said home testing should be conducted under procedures described by the manufacturer in the kit’s user manual and all users must download the home testing mobile app available on Google playstore and Apple store. A home-based test would provide a rapid do-it-yourself diagnosis for patients and help ease the pressure on diagnostic labs across India which conducted over two million tests on Tuesday. The ICMR said all individuals who test positive should consider themselves as true positives and need not seek a repeat test but isolate themselves under standard home-isolation guidelines. All patients with symptoms who test negative through the RAT should get themselves tested immediately with RT-PCR.  All RAT negative but symptomatic persons should be treated as suspect Covid-19 positive cases and advised to isolate themselves until their RTPCR results arrive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Valley artistes accuse govt of withholding payments for March drama festival||A group of artistes who had taken part in the government-organised drama festival in Jammu and Kashmir in March has accused the government of withholding their payments. The government had launched a flurry of activities this year, including cultural shows, musical concerts, drama and tourism festivals, at a time the second wave of Covid-19 was knocking at the doors. Many here believe that the government did it to buttress its “all is well” narrative, caring little for the lives of people. An online campaign to force the government to call off these programmes failed to pay off. The government reluctantly shut down the parks later, but by then the cases had risen alarmingly. The artistes who took part in a two-week drama festival, held simultaneously in Jammu and Srinagar in March, are now complaining that they have not got their dues. “We have no other source of income than this. The government was too eager to hold the drama festival for whatever reasons. We invested our own money in the plays, but for the past two months they are not releasing our money,” an artiste said on the condition of anonymity. “I will get a paltry Rs 5,000, but it means a lot to me amid this lockdown. We have been pressing them hard for the money, but they do not even entertain our calls.” Several artistes have made video appeals to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to intervene. “We don’t have government jobs and we don’t get funds from anywhere. Please release our payments. We are extremely worried,” Sapna Soni, who heads the J&K Kalakaar group, said in an appeal to the government. Rahul Pandey, secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages, which organised the festival, promised to fast-track the payments. “My additional secretary has just been posted. Hopefully, it (payments) will be done in the next couple of days. The payments are held back since March. Codal formalities also need to be completed (before that),” Pandey told The Telegraph. Younus Ahmad, publicity secretary of an artistes’ association, said around 800 artistes — 400 each from Kashmir and Jammu — who are part of 28 theatre groups participated in the festival. “Some 30 shows were staged and the government was supposed to release Rs 50,000 for each show,” he said. “Hundreds of people came to see our shows. But now our money is stuck with them. We are passing through very difficult times. My mother is ill and I cannot afford her medicines.” The artistes said they had been struggling for years. “Our payment with Doordarshan is not being released for years. One artiste suffered a heart attack. Others are struggling to even afford their children’s education,” said Sarwar Khan, an artiste. Hundreds of artistes in Jammu and the Valley depend entirely on the government to make a living, but the crippling disturbances following the abrogation of Article 370 provisions and alleged lack of concern on the part of the government are driving them to penury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae:  38 out of 75 people missing from sunken ONGC barge confirmed dead||As many as 37 of the 75 people missing from a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea after being ensnared by Cyclone Tauktae are confirmed dead, sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. As many as 37 personnel on board the barge are dead and 38 still missing, after Navy personnel, battling extreme weather, so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and two personnel from tugboat Varaprada. The navy said its personnel, battling extreme weather, had so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and also two from the tugboat Varaprada. The chances of finding more survivors are bleak, the official said. Three storm-hit barges, including Papaa-305, had been deployed by Afcons for a contract it had got from the State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). Indian Navy and Coast Guard ships and choppers, as well as vessels from the ONGC, are searching for more survivors, the sources said. P-305 had living quarters for employees working offshore, while two other construction barges lost anchor and drifted away. Besides the barges, a drilling rig of the ONGC, Sagar Bhushan, with 101 people on board (37 ONGC employees and 64 contractual workers) drifted away from its location. All of them have been brought to safety The sources said all the 186 people on board the barge Gal Constructor, which ran aground about 48 nautical miles north of Mumbai’s Colaba Point, had been rescued. Workmen rescued from P305 have recounted how they battled tidal waves as high as 10 metres and strong winds while trying to stay afloat in the Cyclone Tauktae-churned Arabian Sea for almost 12 hours. Some said they had almost lost hope of making it alive. The warship INS Kochi arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday with 125 workmen rescued from P305. “It was a horrific situation on the barge. I had not thought I would survive. But I swam in the waters for seven to eight hours with the determination to stay alive and was rescued by the navy,” workman Manoj Gite told reporters in Mumbai. Gite, 19, a resident of Kolhapur, said that as the barge started sinking, all the workmen put on life jackets and jumped into the sea. Another rescued workman said as the barge started to sink, he jumped into the waters in the middle of the night and tried to stay afloat. 
“I swam for about 12 hours before the navy rescued me,” he said. “The bodies of 26 people have been brought out,” an official said. Forty-nine people are still missing, he added. As many as 53 people lost their lives in cyclone-related incidents in Gujarat as it left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads. Cyclone Tauktae made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir-Somnath district in Gujarat on Monday night. Tauktae, categorised as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday, has now weakened into a depression, the India Meteorological Department said. Cyclone Tauktae has caused huge damage to standing summer crops, with the Kesar variety of mango that is mainly grown in the coastal districts of Gir Somnath and Junagadh bearing the brunt along with coconut and banana plantations, farmers said. Hundreds of mango trees were uprooted in plantations across Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Valsad districts, with nearly all the fruits falling to the ground, the growers said. Kirit Patel, who owns a 75-acre mango farm in Gir Somnath district, said: “Nearly 40 per cent of Kesar mango trees have been uprooted, which is a huge damage as a tree takes nearly 15 years to bear fruit.” Coconut plantations and banana plantations have also been badly hit. “There were 14,000 banana plants, of which 9,000 were uprooted and destroyed,” said a grower in Rajkot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
