21-05-2021||India||Karnataka extends lockdown for two weeks till June 7||The Karnataka government on Friday announced an extension of lockdown for two weeks from May 24 to June 7 to contain the spread of coronavirus infection in the state. The stringent restrictions, already in force from May 10, were slated to end on May 24. The chief minister announced the decision after a meeting with senior Ministers, Chief Secretary and other officials. "Heeding to the suggestions of experts, we have decided to extend the stringent restriction from May 24 to June 7," he told reporters here. Stating that the lockdown has been extended in view of the public health concerns and the suggestions of the experts, Yediyurappa said he expected cooperation from people. "I appeal to the people to abide by the Covid-appropriate behaviour of wearing facemasks in public places, maintaining hygiene and social distancing in public places," the chief minister said. He said the current lockdown guidelines would continue and there would not be any change in them. However, in Bangalore and surrounding villages the restrictions would be stringent as a section of people has been seen roaming around even after 10 am. He warned of strict action against them. "People are allowed to make purchases (of essentials) between 6 AM to 10 AM but they should be home by 9.45 AM," Yediyurappa said. To a question, he said the government has not taken any decision regarding pay cut in the salary of government servants. Speaking about black fungus, the Chief Minister said the State government has decided to give treatment to the infected persons free of cost in government district hospitals. "Since a large number of poor people cannot bear the expenses, we have decided to treat black fungus infections in government hospitals free of cost," Yediyurappa said.
The government had imposed strict restrictions from May 10 when the Covid cases and fatalities did not abate. State Ministers, especially Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, have been advocating the extension of the lockdown for the past few days due to rising Covid cases. The State today reported 32,218 fresh infections and 353 fatalities, taking the total infections and deaths due to COVID to 23,67,742 and 24,207 respectively. There were 5,14,238 active cases. The cases have subsided from over 50,000 cases a day last month to 32,218 today but the Health Department officials still perceive that very high. A matter of serious concern for the government, according to them, is that the cases are fast increasing in other districts, though Bangalore, which was an epicentre of Covid, showed decline in the number of fresh infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Better to suffer and die than going to JJ Hospital, Stan Swamy tells HC||Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, told the Bombay High Court on Friday that his health has deteriorated steadily since his arrest, but he would rather "suffer and possibly die" than getting treatment at a state-run hospital here. Swamy, 84, was produced before a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade through video conference from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai where he is lodged as an under-trial. The prison authorities also submitted a medical report from Mumbai's J J Hospital, where Swamy had been examined earlier this week in compliance with the high court's order. The bench read out the report, which stated that Swamy suffers from extreme hearing loss in both ears, his upper limbs were sluggish and suffered tremors. It also said that he required physical assistance in the form of a walking stick or wheelchair. However, his overall condition including the pulse rate were stable and Swamy was "responsive" and "cooperative," the report said. Swamy told the court that he had suffered much while in prison. "I was brought here eight months ago. When I came to Taloja, my whole system, my body, was still very functional. But during these eight months, I have gone through a steady regression of all bodily functions," Swamy said. "The main issue is that eight months ago I could take a bath by myself; I could take a walk; I could do some writing by myself. But all of these are disappearing one after another. So, Taloja jail brought me to a situation where I can neither write nor go for a walk by myself. I can't eat. Somebody has to feed me through a spoon," he said. The bench then asked if Swamy wished to be admitted to the state-run J J Hospital for "general treatment to improve his overall health." Swamy, however, said that he had been admitted to that hospital on two previous occasions and he did not think that admission there could help him. "What medicines will the J J Hospital give me? I have been there twice. I know the set-up. I don't want to go there," Swamy said. "I would rather suffer and possibly die. I would rather be in Ranchi with my friends," Swamy said, insisting that he be granted interim bail instead. The bench, however, said that the court was hearing arguments on the point of hospital admission only and not on interim bail. It further said that Swamy's health problems seemed to be general in nature and were probably just "age-related." Swamy's advocate, senior counsel Mihir Desai, urged the court to adjourn the hearing for a week to permit him to speak with Swamy and to convince him to get admitted to a hospital. "Since he is a priest, he feels 'forgive them, for they do not know what to do'... This is the approach he has taken," Desai said. The bench granted him the liberty to approach the HC again if Swamy changed his mind about hospital admission. The bench said, "Someone must have told him, or he himself is an intelligent man. He knows his problems are only age-related. That's why he is pressing only for interim bail and says won't take hospital admission." The HC directed the Taloja prison to follow all the recommendations made by J J Hospital on providing health facilities and treatment to Swamy while in prison. Swamy approached the HC through advocate Desai earlier this year challenging a special court's rejection of his bail plea, filed on medical grounds as well as merits of the case. As per his counsel, Swamy suffers from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||High Courts should refrain from passing impossible orders, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed an order of Allahabad High Court in which it said that the entire medical system in villages and small cities of Uttar Pradesh is at God's mercy ("Ram bharose") amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai said that the directions of the Allahabad High Court passed on May 17 shall not be treated as directives but as a piece of advice to the Uttar Pradesh government. It said that High Courts should refrain from passing directions that cannot be implemented. On May 17, the High Court while hearing a PIL over the coronavirus spread and the condition of quarantine centres in the state passed a slew of directions while taking into account the death of one Santosh Kumar (64), who was admitted to an isolation ward at a Meerut hospital. The doctors there had failed to identify him and disposed of the body as unidentified, according to a probe report. Santosh had fainted at a hospital bathroom on April 22 and efforts were made to revive him but he died. The hospital staff could not identify the dead and failed to locate his file. Thus, it was taken as a case of an unidentified body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Thousands rush to take Ayurvedic ‘medicine’, govt sends team Andhra village||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday decided to send an Ayurvedic medicine, being touted as a miracle cure for Covid-19 and distributed in SPS Nellore district, to the ICMR for a detailed study of its efficacy as 10,000 people converged at Krishnapatnam to buy it, creating a virtual stampede. The government also decided to send a team of experts to Nellore for an on-the-spot study of the formulation, popularly known as the 'Krishnapatnam medicine'. From tens to hundreds and now thousands, people are flocking to Krishnapatnam village, even violating Covid-19 protocols, to take the medicine being offered by an Ayurvedic practitioner B Anandaiah, who once worked as the village sarpanch and later a member of the Mandal Parishad. He began the medicine distribution on April 21. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who hails from SPS Nellore district, also asked Union Minister for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and Indian Council of Medical Research Director Balram Bhargava to conduct a study on the medicine. He asked them to come out with a report as early as possible, a release here said. At a high-level review meeting on Covid-19 here, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the Ayurvedic medicine that is being promoted by his party district president and MLA K Govardhan Reddy. "We have decided to get it studied by the ICMR and other experts to determine its efficacy," Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas said after the review meeting. Doctor-turned-bureaucrat P V Ramesh, who previously worked as Principal Secretary (Health) and also Special Chief Secretary to Chief Minister Reddy, dubbed the so-called Krishnapatnam medicine "yet another recipe for disaster". "Governments must stop such epidemics of superstition. Those preparing and promoting this Krishnapatnam concoction are punishable under the Pharmacy Act, 1948, and Drugs and Magic Remedies Act, 1954," Ramesh, who actively oversaw the AP government's Covid-19 management last year and now retired, said. A team of Ayurvedic doctors from the Department of Ayush visited the village a couple of days ago and enquired about the medicine and submitted a report to the government, saying the medicine preparation, treatment process and the after-effects needs to be studied in a scientific manner. The team claimed none of those who took the medicine had complained of any ill effects. It said Anandaiah was preparing five different medicines using natural herbs, honey and spices and giving it to the virus-infected patients, suspects and those with lung problems. "One of the Covid-19 patients saw his oxygen level rise to 95 from 83 in an hour after getting two drops of the medicine administered in his eyes. We have spoken to the patients," the Ayurvedic doctors said in the report. The SPS Nellore district medical and health officer and Nellore Revenue Divisional Officer were also part of the official team. The team, however, said no Covid-19 rules were being followed in the village where the medicine was being given. On Friday, there was a virtual stampede at Krishnapatnam as over 10,000 people thronged there for the medicine, the supply of which was resumed after a break for a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Remove ‘manipulated’ tag from posts on Congress toolkit, Centre asks Twitter||The government has objected to Twitter using 'manipulated media' tag for tweets on an alleged Congress toolkit used to target the Centre over its Covid-19 handling, sources said. The government has asked Twitter to remove the 'manipulated media' tag as the matter is pending before law enforcement agencies, and made it clear that the social media platform cannot pass judgment when the issue is under investigation. Investigation will determine the veracity of the content and not Twitter, it has asserted while asking the microblogging platform not to interfere in the investigation process. According to sources, the Ministry of Electronics and IT has written a strong communication to the global team of Twitter registering its objection to the 'manipulated media' tag on tweets made by some political leaders with reference to the toolkit allegedly created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the government against the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, Twitter had labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged toolkit prepared by Congress to target the Modi government. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated." The Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter asking it to permanently suspend the accounts of BJP leaders including party chief JP Nadda and Union minister Smriti Irani for allegedly "spreading misinformation and unrest in the society". Twitter’s move came following Congress’ accusation. Patra's tweet, now labelled "manipulated media" had posted a document and said, "Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of Friendly Journalists & Influencers than a soulful endeavour.Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Centre asks states to ensure health facilities stocked with medicines, supplies||The Centre has asked Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands to ensure that health facilities are stocked with essential medicines and supplies to meet any exigencies in the wake of Cyclone Yaas which is expected to make a landfall later this month. According to the India Meteorological Department, a low pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24, and expected to move northwestwards and reach near Odisha and West Bengal coasts around May 26. Apart from the impact of cyclone in Odisha and West Bengal, there may be widespread rains in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and districts of the east coast that may cause inland flooding, it has said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, saying public health challenge, already posed by the coronavirus pandemic, may be compounded due to direct impact of COVID and public health risks posed by water, vector and airborne diseases that may arise in the community or in displaced population living in camps or temporary shelter settings. Bhushan asked these states and union territories to activate the Health Sector Incident Command System and Emergency Operation Centre/Control Room, identify a nodal officer and convey his contact details to the Union Health Ministry. "Activate health sector disaster management plan and the hospital disaster management plan of all the coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh, Andaman Islands, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal. The Emergency department preparedness in all these hospitals needs to be reviewed," he said. He stressed on advance planning on evacuation from the community and health facilities, which are in the path of cyclone, to safer places or bigger hospitals. Mobilisation of the district surveillance units and public health teams for COVID management also needs to be reoriented on possible outbreak of epidemic-prone diseases such as influenza, measles, acute diarrhoeal diseases, dysentery, leptospirosis, dengue, malaria, etc, he said. Bhushan said health facilities at all levels in the affected areas, including those identified for COVID treatment needs to be made fully functional with additional human resource drawn from unaffected districts. There should be adequate power back up arrangements for all the hospitals, labs, vaccine cold chain and oxygen generation units (MLO and PSA plants) and other supportive medical facilities, he said. "It needs to be ensured that health facilities are stocked with adequate essential medicines and supplies to meet any exigencies arising due to disruption on movement of vehicles, due to high wind and heavy rainfall," he said. Bhushan said adequate stock of ORS, chlorine tablets, bleaching powder, and specific drugs to intervene for these diseases need to be ensured. "This is as crucial for non-COVID healthcare needs as it is for COVID management in affected communities," he said. Advance planning should be done to ensure unhindered movement of oxygen tankers, especially on advance movement of empty tankers by the Air Force aircrafts or the Indian Railways, he said. "Functional ambulance services shall be assessed and requirements for the districts likely to be affected worked out in advance and mobilized. Medical care and public health interventions need to be planned for camps housing evacuated population. "Rapid antigen testing may be taken up for population in camps followed by RT-PCR testing for symptomatic negatives of Rapid antigen tests. Senior citizens and those suffering from diabetes, hypertension, liver/ kidney, respiratory disease, immuno-compromised diseases need to be specifically monitored with COVID perspective as they constitute people under high risk," Bhushan said. As communication is likely to be disrupted at some places, major hospitals in the affected districts may be provided with satellite phones or radio connections, the health ministry official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Govt gives license to 5 manufacturers to produce medicine for black fungus||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said license has been given to five more manufactures for the production of Amphotericin-B, used in the treatment of black fungus, and they will start producing 1,11,000 vials of the drug per month from July. Efforts are being made to supplement the domestic availability of the antifungal drug through import, the ministry said, adding that 3,63,000 vials of Amphotericin-B will be imported in May, resulting in the total availability of 5,26,752 vials (inclusive of the domestic production) in the country. It said 3,15,000 vials will be imported in June and along with the domestic supply, the countrywide availability of Amphotericin-B will be enhanced to 5,70,114 vials in June. Several states and union territories have reported an increasing number of patients suffering from COVID complications in the recent days in the form of Mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, the ministry said in a statement. There is also a reported shortage of Amphotericin-B, it stated. The Union Health Ministry along with the Department of Pharmaceuticals and Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) are making proactive efforts for significantly ramping up domestic production of Amphotericin-B drug, it said. The Union government has also made effective efforts in supplementing the domestic availability through securing supply from global manufacturers, the statement said. The five manufacturers which have been given the license to produce the Amphotericin-B within the country are NATCO Pharmaceuticals, Hyderabad, Alembic Pharmaceuticals, Vadodara, Gufic Biosciences Ltd, Gujarat, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Pune and Lyka in Gujarat. These companies will start producing 1,11,000 vials of Amphotericin-B per month from July this year, the statement said. The Union Health Ministry and the department of Pharmaceuticals are together trying to proactively facilitate these five manufacturers to prepone some of this production so that these additional supplies begin in June, the statement said. There are five existing manufacturers of Amphotericin-B in the country and one importer -- Bharat Serums & Vaccines Ltd, BDR Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Sun Pharma Ltd, Cipla Ltd, Life Care Innovations and Mylan Labs (importer). "The production capacity of these companies was extremely limited in the month of April. "As a result of the hand-holding by the Government of India, these domestic manufactures will cumulatively produce 1,63,752 vials of Amphotericin-B in May. This will be further ramped up to 2,55,114 vials in June," the ministry said. Efforts are also being made to supplement the domestic availability of this antifungal drug through import, it said. "In May, 3,63,000 vials of Amphotericin-B will be imported, thereby resulting in total availability in the country (inclusive of the domestic production) of 5,26,752 vials" "Besides, 3,15,000 vials will be imported in June. Hence, along with the domestic supply, the countrywide availability of Amphotericin-B will be enhanced to 5,70,114 vials in June," the ministry said. Together, these companies will start producing 1,11,000 vials of Amphotericin-B per month from July, it added. The Union Ministry of Health in collaboration with MEA is also actively exploring other global sources from where the Amphotericin-B drug can be imported. The ministry is also trying to procure other antifungal drugs which can be used in the treatment of black Fungus, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||NDRF begins to gear teams up for Cyclone Yaas set to hit Bengal, Odisha||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has begun positioning its teams in Bengal and Odisha as Cyclone Yaas is likely to hit these states on the eastern coast of the country around May 26-27, officials said on Friday. Some of the teams dispatched to undertake evacuation, rescue and restoration work in states affected by Cyclone Tauktae on the western coast are being called back, they said. NDRF Director General S N Pradhan tweeted that the force has decided to "airlift" Bengal and Odisha-based teams of the force in view of Cyclone Yaas and its "possible impact" in the coastal districts of the two states. The exact number of NDRF teams to be earmarked for the latest cyclone will be decided as per inputs received from the India Meteorological Department. The situation is developing, the officials said. The central force had earmarked a total of 101 teams for the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae that developed in the Arabian Sea and mainly affected the costal areas of Gujarat and states like Maharashtra and Goa, apart from a few others on the western coastline of the country. Tauktae made landfall on Monday night near Una town in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat and wreaked havoc for around 28 hours before it weakened into a depression. Each NDRF team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. Due to the COVID-19 spread, these teams have been provided orange-coloured full-bodied personal protection gear that includes a face shield for each rescuer. The NDRF has earlier said that most of its troops deployed for these operations have been vaccinated for coronavirus. Talking about Yaas, the IMD had on Thursday said that a low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22. "It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal-Odisha coasts around 26th May evening," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD had said. The name Yaas has been given to the potential cyclone by Oman, as per a standard protocol of naming such cyclonic storms in rotation by affected countries in the same area. The name Tauktae was given by Myanmar, and it means gecko or a small lizard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Chipko movement pioneer Sunderlal Bahuguna dies of Covid-19||Environmentalist and Chipko movement pioneer Sunderlal Bahuguna died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here on Friday after battling Covid-19 for several days. He was 94. He breathed his last at 12.05 pm, AIIMS Director Ravikant said. Bahuguna, one of India's best known environmentalists, was admitted to the hospital on May 8 after testing positive for Covid. Bahuguna had been critical since last night with his oxygen level dropping drastically. He was on CPAP therapy in the ICU of the premier hospital. Expressing grief on the death of Bahuguna, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that it is a "monumental loss" for our nation, and he manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. Paying tributes, Modi tweeted, "Passing away of Shri Sunderlal Bahuguna Ji is a monumental loss for our nation. He manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers. Om Shanti." Condoling the environmentalist’s death, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat described it as a big loss not just for Uttarakhand and India but for the entire world. "It was he who made the Chipko movement a movement of the masses," Rawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Modi lauds medics, says there is a need to concentrate on eastern UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi for their efforts in fighting Covid-19. The prime minister gave a new slogan "Jahan bimar, wahin upchar (treatment of the ailing at their doorstep)" during his video conference with the healthcare professionals, saying this can bring down the pressure that the second wave of Covid-19 has put on the country's health system. "A lot of work has been done, but there is also a need to concentrate on the rural areas of 'Purvanchal' (eastern region of Uttar Pradesh)," Modi stressed. The effect of the pandemic has been so vast that despite all efforts, numerous lives were lost, the prime minister said in a voice choked with emotion. "You have contained the virus significantly but there should be no complacency as it is going to be a long fight," Modi told the doctors and frontline workers of Varanasi. He also took stock of the functioning of various Covid hospitals in the holy city, including the Pandit Rajan Mishra Covid Hospital which was recently started through joint efforts of the DRDO and the Indian Army. The prime minister discussed ongoing efforts for tackling the second wave of Covid-19 in Varanasi and preparations for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Goa court acquits journalist Tarun Tejpal of rape charges||A sessions court in Goa on Friday acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal of sexually assaulting a former female colleague. Tejpal, former Tehelka editor-in-chief, was accused of sexually assaulting the colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, who was present in the court along with his family members when the judgment was pronounced around 10.45 am. The court has acquitted Tejpal of all the charges. A detailed order about it will be made available later in the day, advocate Suhas Velip, junior to advocate Rajiv Gomes, who represented Tejpal in the court, told reporters. Gomes, who defended Tejpal in the case, died of COVID-19 last week. After the court verdict, the prosecution said it will challenge the order in the high court. A sessions court in Goa had adjourned the hearing on Wednesday and posted it for May 21 due to lack of staff in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. On Wednesday, Tejpal was present in the court along with some of his family members and lawyers. He had been out on bail since May 2014. After the verdict, a statement issued by Tejpal was read out to media persons by his daughter Tara outside the court building in Mapusa town near Panaji, in which he thanked the court for its rigorous, impartial and fair trial . “In November 2013 I was falsely accused of sexual assault by a colleague. Today the Hon’ble Trial Court of Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi, in Goa, has honourably acquitted me. In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth,” Tejpal said in the statement. "The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives," he said. "We have felt the boot of the state, but all through it we have co-operated fully with the Goa police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings," he said. Tejpal said he and his family have unwaveringly followed every mandate of due procedure and abided by every principle of law as laid down in the Constitution. "We have also endeavoured to uphold every norm of decency expected in a case like this," he said. "It is with profound respect that I thank this court for its rigorous, impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record," Tejpal added. He also remembered his late advocate Gomes as a dynamic and brilliant lawyer. Talking to reporters, public prosecutor Francis Tavora said the session's court order would be challenged in the high court. As soon as we get the detailed written order, we will approach the high court challenging it, he said. The Goa police had registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013, following which he was arrested. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal, who has been out on bail since May 2014. He faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control). PTI RPS VT NP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||India logs over 2.59 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,209 casualties in a day||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below 3 lakh for the fifth consecutive day with 2.59 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With a total of 2,59,551 fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,60,31,991. The death toll climbed to 2,91,331 with 4,209 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 30,27,925 comprising 11.63 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 87.25 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,27,12,735, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 32,44,17,870 samples have been tested up to May 20 with 20,61,683 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,209 new fatalities include 984 from Maharashtra, 548 from Karnataka, 397 from Tamil Nadu, 236 from Uttar Pradesh, 233 from Delhi, 191 from Punjab, 162 from West Bengal, 159 from Uttarakhand, 129 from Haryana, 128 from Kerala, 127 from Rajasthan, 114 from Andhra Pradesh and 113 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 2,91,331 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 85,355 from Maharashtra, 23,854 from Karnataka, 22,579 from Delhi, 19,131 from Tamil Nadu, 18,588 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,895 from West Bengal, 12,716 from Punjab and 12,295 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||IAF pilot killed as MiG Bison aircraft crashes in Punjab||An IAF MiG-21 Bison aircraft crashed during heavy rain in a field in Punjab's Moga district, killing its pilot Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary, officials said. The aircraft was on a training sortie from Suratgarh in Rajasthan when it crashed in Langeana village on Thursday night, said Moga Superintendent of Police Gurdeep Singh. The Indian Air Force has ordered a Court of Inquiry to ascertain the cause of the accident and said it condoles the tragic loss of its officer. "The aircraft crashed in a field and caught fire. It was raining heavily at the time," Singh said, adding that there was no other loss of life or damage to property. The pilot's body was found about two kilometres from the crash site, barely 200 metres from a couple of big 'havelis'. Had the aircraft crashed over these houses, it could have caused heavy casualties, Singh told PTI over the phone. He said the pilot appeared to have deployed a parachute in a bid to land safely. It seems he broke his neck upon impact on the ground, he added. According to the information we got, the aircraft had taken off from Suratgarh in Rajasthan for Jagraon near Ludhiana and was on the way back after a training sortie when it crashed, Singh said. He added that IAF officials from Halwara and Bathinda with medical teams and ambulances had reached the crash site, about 12 km from Baghapurana town on the Mudki road. "There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family," the IAF said in a tweet. "A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Twitter labels Sambit Patra's tweet on Congress 'toolkit' as 'manipulated media'||Twitter has labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged toolkit prepared by the Congress to target the Modi government. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated." The Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter asking it to permanently suspend the accounts of BJP leaders including party chief JP Nadda and Union minister Smriti Irani for allegedly "spreading misinformation and unrest in the society". The opposition party has insisted that the toolkit documents flagged by the BJP are "fake" and has filed police complaint against its leaders. The Chhattisgarh police has registered an FIR to probe the matter. The BJP has been attacking the Congress over some controversial content of the so-called toolkit. BJP leaders, including Patra, have posted numerous tweets to attack the Congress over the toolkit. Patra's tweet, now labelled "manipulated media" had posted a document and said, "Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of Friendly Journalists & Influencers than a soulful endeavour.Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Cartoon character Shayana Kaka lends a hand in fight||A health worker in Bundi district of Rajasthan, who himself is in isolation with Covid, has developed a cartoon character called “Shayana Kaka (wise uncle)” to bring home the message of pandemic-appropriate behaviour and guidelines in the local dialect. In one such cartoon, the character says: “Bimari ko naa chipaao, survey karri Asha behen na jarur apnaa lakshan bato, haspatal su dava lo (Don’t hide the disease, inform the symptoms to Asha worker during surveys, take medicines from a hospital).” “It is really satisfying that the Shayana Kaka cartoon series on Covid-19 is proving effective in rural areas,” said Sunil Jangid, the artist behind the cartoon series and also a block superviser at a community health centre in Hindoli town. The series is being shared on social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter with officials and workers in rural areas, who then send it to other local groups, Bundi zilla parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Murlidhar Pratihar said. Concerned over the increasing spread of the virus in rural areas, the zilla parishad official brought in Jangid to incorporate the guidelines in the local dialect through the cartoon character. Although Jangid tested positive for the virus on May 5 and was under treatment in home isolation, he started working on the CEO’s idea and has so far developed more than 10 short cartoon episodes with each one depicting Shayana Kaka delivering awareness messages on Covid-19. Pratihar said more people in the rural areas of the district were now understanding the significance of embracing Covid-19 guidelines and the daily case load had gone down in the last two days. The district rural development and panchayati raj department has incorporated awareness generation on Covid-19 in its Swachh Bharat Mission campaign and the local cartoon character Shayana Kaka is one such tool to help spread the message, Pratihar said. “The cartoon series has certainly built up an environment in favour of embracing Covid guidelines against the pandemic,” said Satyaprakesh Sharma, sarpanch of the Bansi gram panchyat in Hindoli block of Bundi district. He claimed that only 4-5 positive cases have been detected so far among the population of around 5,500 in Bansi village. Sharma said he receives awareness messages on the Shayana Kaka series on his WhatsApp and Facebook accounts that he later shares with all groups in the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Facebook says it received 40,300 requests from Indian govt for user data in the second half of 2020||Facebook has said it received 40,300 requests from the Indian government for user data in the second half of 2020. This was 13.3 per cent higher from the January-June 2020 period when India had made 35,560 total requests, according to the Facebook’s latest transparency report. The US-based social media company restricted access to 878 items in India during the second half of 2020 in response to directions from the IT ministry for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, including content against security of the state and public order. According to the report, India made 40,300 requests in the July-December 2020 period, of which 37,865 were legal process requests and 2,435 were emergency disclosure requests. The number of total requests made by India ranked second to the US, which had made 61,262 requests during the July-December 2020 period. Globally, government requests for user data increased by about 10 per cent to 191,013 in the second half of 2020 from 173,592 in the first half of 2020. Information related to 62,754 users, accounts were requested in India, and some data were produced for 52 per cent of the requests. Facebook responds to government requests for data in accordance with applicable law and our terms of service. Each and every request we receive is carefully reviewed for legal sufficiency and we may reject or require greater specificity on requests that appear overly broad or vague,” the report said. Facebook said that during the July-December 2020 period, it had “restricted access in India to 878 items in response to directions from the ministry of electronics and information technology for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, including content against security of the state and public order”. Of these, 10 were restricted temporarily, it added. “We also restricted access to 54 items in compliance with court orders. In response to an order from Justice Alexandre de Moraes of Brazil’s Supreme Court related to 12 profiles and Pages of supporters of Brazilian President Bolsonaro, we restricted access globally to this content, including in India,” it added. Facebook noted that while it respects the law in countries where it operates, it “strongly” opposes extraterritorial legal demands such as the one resulting in these restrictions. The social media giant also released its Community Standards Enforcement Report for the first quarter of 2021. According to the Community Standards Enforcement Report, content actioned on adult nudity and sexual activity increased to 31.8 million in first quarter of 2021 from 28.1 million pieces of content in the preceding quarter. The report found that prevalence of hate speech content was between 0.05 per cent and 0.06 per cent of views in the first quarter of 2021, which marks a decrease from the fourth quarter of 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Covid: India records weeklong fall in counts of active patients||India on Thursday recorded a weeklong fall in counts of active Covid-19 patients, but health officials and doctors remain worried that limited rural testing and widespread epidemics in 22 states are hiding a vast reservoir of uncounted infections. Alongside a decline in daily new infections, the count of active patients fell to 3.22 million from 3.71 million on May 13, but experts fear the virus is spreading undetected in at least 22 states, including Bengal, and rural areas bereft of testing facilities. The main purpose of testing is to isolate positive cases early and block the chain of transmission. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has projected a plan to increase the country’s Covid-19 diagnostic capacity from the current 3 million daily tests to 4.5 million by June-end, underscoring the need to rapidly ramp up testing in rural areas. For rural areas, the health research agency has “encouraged” the deployment of rapid antigen tests (RATs) in each of an estimated 187,000 primary health centres and other rural-level health facilities, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava said. A health policy specialist said the plan to augment diagnostic capacity was overdue. “This should have been done before the second wave started,” said Rijo John, an adjunct professor for health economics and development studies at the Raragiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi, Kerala. Doctors and health experts say that information about how Covid-19 has impacted rural India is largely based on anecdotal accounts in the absence of any disaggregated government data differentiating patterns of epidemics in rural and urban areas. Arvinder Singh Soin, a senior liver transplantation surgeon at Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon, Haryana, tweeted on Thursday to say he’s “terribly worried that there is a Covid surge in rural India that is going largely unchecked and undetected”. Soin said he had heard troubling accounts of the conditions in rural areas from some patients who’ve consulted him over the past two or three weeks. “In many such places, patients say there are no testing facilities. Patients develop fever, some use phones for teleconsultations, some get medicines,” Soin told The Telegraph. “Treatment, testing and vaccination — it’s very patchy across rural areas,” said Soin, who typically has roughly a third of his patients from rural areas in Haryana, Punjab or Uttar Pradesh. Many experts are concerned that under limited testing, the rural epidemic will remain invisible. “Local responses need strong data about the local epidemic. Without access to tests, how will district authorities even know the extent of the burden in their areas?” asked Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Anecdotal reports indicate that due to a surge in cases, doctors from rural areas have fled from their places of usual practice, leaving people to fend for themselves.” The ICMR is hoping India will augment its diagnostic capacity through RATs in public health facilities, mobile testing vans moving every day from village to village, and home-based do-it-yourself test kits, the first of which was approved on Wednesday. The epidemic’s current patterns suggest an urgent need for India to scale up testing nationwide, in urban and rural areas. Twenty-two states currently have a test positivity rate — the fraction of positive cases among those tested — greater than 15 per cent, instead of the ideal below 5 per cent. A high test positivity rate implies widespread infections and inadequate testing. Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Goa, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are among 10 states with a test positivity rate greater than 24 per cent. “In all such areas, testing has to be increased until the positivity rate falls below 5 per cent,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu minister calls Jaggi Vasudev a 'publicity hound'||A longstanding battle over “secular” vs “Brahminical” control of Tamil Nadu’s temples, currently being fought between the ruling DMK and the Sangh parivar, has heated up with finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan calling celebrity yoga practitioner Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev a “publicity hound”. The MIT-educated technocrat turned politician, known popularly as PTR, also alleged irregularities in the way the Coimbatore-based Sadhguru’s Isha Foundation had constructed buildings on forestland. His comments prompted the foundation to deplore the “un-parliamentary and uncalled for personal attack”. Sadhguru is widely seen as a supporter of many of the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had in December 2019 approvingly tweeted a video showing Sadhguru chiding the critics of the new citizenship regime. The latest controversy broke out following an interview PTR gave to The Hindu newspaper in which he dismissed as “nonsense” the Sangh parivar’s demand to free Tamil Nadu’s temples from the administrative control of the state government’s Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR and CE) department. When the interviewer cited Sadhguru’s expression of support for the parivar’s demand, PTR dubbed the yoga practitioner a “publicity hound”, not to be taken seriously. After controversy broke out, PTR issued a four-page statement from Madurai on Wednesday evening saying he had “no personal agenda” against Sadhguru but also explaining the charges against him. He said he first “became aware” of Sadhguru and his Foundation as an Opposition member of the public accounts committee of the previous Assembly. He had come across an “audit paragraph” on alleged irregularities in the Foundation’s constructions between 1994 and 2008 on Coimbatore’s forestland and its acquisition of “post-facto approval” from the Hill Area Conservation Authority. PTR said in his statement, to which portions of the audit report were attached, that this had spurred him to “research” the matter and discover “many other potential violations”. Stating these matters did not come under his ministry now, PTR said he had no intention of initiating prosecution on the audit report’s findings. “(But) I could no longer stay disinterested when Jaggi Vasudev turned to ‘privatise temples’ issue as his next publicity/ revenue ‘dimension’,” PTR said in his statement. The BJP’s 2021 state election manifesto had argued that temples should be freed from the administrative control of the “secular state” — which has no say on the religious practices at the shrines, anyway — and handed over to an “autonomous board” of devotees and religious heads. As head of the DMK cyber wing, PTR had had his team imaginatively combat the campaign. One of the memes during the poll campaign — a sacred thread wound around a temple tower — hinted that the parivar’s demand was a veiled plea for a return to “Brahmins’ control over temple management”. It created a furore and was withdrawn. In the run-up to the polls, Sadhguru had in his televised interviews highlighted his “#Free Temples: Secular governments should not control temples” campaign, lending weight to the BJP’s case. Sadhguru, a popular motivational speaker on television channels, commands a global audience in the cause of Hindu cultural nationalism. His book Inner Engineering: A Yogi’s Guide to Joy made it to the New York Times Bestseller list in 2017. He had with the Indian government’s blessings led the yoga session on International Yoga Day — June 21, 2016 — at the UN headquarters in New York and interacted with world envoys on the theme “Yoga for sustainable development goals”. Long legacy The battle over the control of temples has been long. The HR and CE department was formed under British rule and given a firm regulatory framework in the 1920s under the erstwhile Justice Party ministries, whose political legacy was inherited by Periyar’s Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) and later the DMK. The Justice Party had been formed to represent interests of the non-Brahmin majority against Brahmin domination in the erstwhile Madras Presidency. PTR has said his “great-granduncle Thiru M.T. Subramania Mudaliar was a driving force” behind the then Justice Party’s enactments. Among these was the Hindu Paripalanam Act of 1922, enacted following complaints of shrine mismanagement, that provided for “monitoring the grants and endowments to temples” to ensure their proper use. This law was the precursor of the HR and CE Act that came into force on January 1, 1960. The HR and CE department now manages 38,646 Hindu and Jain religious institutions and oversees 56 mutts, administering over 4.78 lakh acres of land, 22,600 buildings and 33,665 vacant sites. The tracts of farmland with these temples have largely been leased out to small and marginal farmers. The parivar alleges lease arrears, encroachment of temple land, mismanagement of assets and transfer of land titles to private persons under the HR and CE department. However, PTR argued in the interview that giving away the hundreds of temples of historical and archaeological value to private trusts was no solution. “You say, give it to the bhaktas. Which bhakta will I give it to?” he asked. While many DMK leaders, including chief minister M.K. Stalin, profess to be atheists, PTR has taken care to stress his family’s religious credentials and its centuries of association with the Meenakshi Amman temple in Madurai. “My grandfather (P.T. Rajan, who was Justice Party chief minister in 1936) donated the idol of Lord Ayyappa to the Sabarimala shrine after the original idol was destroyed in a fire,” PTR said in the interview. Political analysts and legal experts say the real issues behind the temple tug-of-war are ownership of the temple land and the revenue from the farmland and other assets bequeathed to the shrines, some of it by past Muslim rulers. They say that demands for the land to be given to the “tiller” have made the issue more complex and that transferring the temples to private trusts could be legally messy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Covid: UP signals aid for families of all polling officials who died after election duty||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to ask the state election commission to amend its rules so that the families of all the polling officials who died of Covid after panchayat election duty receive compensation, an official has told PTI. Teachers’ bodies had demanded ex-gratia for the bereaved families of all these thousand-plus teachers, after the government had on Tuesday said the kin of only three polling officials would be compensated in keeping with poll panel norms. “According to the Uttar Pradesh election commission’s guidelines, election duty refers to going from home to duty till coming back home. During this duty period, if there is any death, ex-gratia will be paid,” a statement from the state basic (primary) education department had said. “Till today, district authorities have submitted verified data of death of three teachers.” The official who spoke to PTI on Thursday said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed his officials to write to the state election commission asking it to amend its rules to allow wider compensation. “Every death is tragic and the state government has full sympathy with each employee and his family. The state government extends compensation and job to one member of the family of its staff dying during poll duty as per the Election Commission guidelines,” PTI quoted the official as saying. “But since the guidelines pertain to the time when there was no coronavirus, a fresh sympathetic consideration is required.” According to the state election commission guidelines, families of those who die “during duty” from accidents or violence are entitled to ex-gratia. On May 8, death from Covid was added to the list but without a clarification on the period within which such deaths should have occurred. On Thursday, state chief secretary R.K. Tiwari wrote to all district authorities to ensure that the families of all officials who got infected with Covid during duty hours and died are provided compensation at the earliest. While his letter does not specifically mention polling officials, it’s expected to apply to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Sonia asks PM to ensure free education for bereaved kids||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday entreated Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education to children who had lost both parents or the earning guardian to Covid-19. Sonia wrote to the Prime Minister: “Amidst the devastation caused by the pandemic and the heart-wrenching tragedies being faced by affected families, news of young children losing one or both parents to Covid-19 are the most poignant. These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future. “As you are aware, one of my husband Rajiv Gandhi’s most significant legacies is the network of Navodaya Vidyalayas. It was his dream to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented youth, predominantly from rural areas.” Sonia added: “There are now, as you know, 661 such schools across the country. “I am writing to request you to consider providing free education at the Navodaya Vidyalayas to children who have lost either both parents or an earning parent on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. I feel that as a nation, we owe it to them to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them.” To implement any such policy effectively, the states will have to furnish accurate data on the deaths caused by Covid. There have been numerous reports from several states about official death figures not matching the numbers provided to the media by the overflowing hospitals and crematoriums. There have been reports, including some in the international media, on a massive undercounting of deaths. In Uttar Pradesh, the government has so far agreed to give compensation to the families of only three teachers who died during panchayat poll duty, although teachers’ organisations have said at least 1,600 teachers and other staff have died from Covid. Any policy or welfare measure will be rendered meaningless in the absence of a credible database, critics said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted Sonia’s letter, saying: “Children are amongst the worst hit by Covid trauma, many having lost their parents to the dreadful situation. The Congress president makes an important suggestion to safeguard their future and provide them free education at Navodaya Vidyalayas. It’s high time the government of India listened!” Rahul attacked the government over the horrific sight of bodies buried on riverbanks or dumped into rivers, particularly the Ganga. “Ganga ma ki ret se dikhta har shav ka kapda kahta hai/ Ki usi ret mein sar dafnaye Modi system rahta hai (Everybody popping out of the sand of mother Ganga suggests that the Modi system has buried its head in the same sand),” Rahul tweeted. The Congress has been attacking the government over its ostrich-like attitude amid the pandemic. The Congress also expressed outrage at the slow vaccination process, asking the Centre to begin negotiations on war footing to procure vaccines from global manufacturers. Party spokesperson Rajeev Shukla said: “Covid has spread into villages in over 25 states. A huge catastrophe is looming over the country as villages don’t have health infrastructure. Only vaccines could have protected the people.” Shukla added: “India needs to vaccinate at least 90 lakh people daily. At the current rate, we won’t be able to secure our people for the next two years. We haven’t seen any effort by the central government to procure maximum vaccines from all over the world at the earliest.” He wondered why the Centre and various state governments were hiding or manipulating data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Cloud on Covid vaccine output projections||India’s output of Covid-19 shots for August-December is likely to be lower than the government’s public estimate, according to internal projections shared with Reuters by two sources. Lower-than-expected production could delay India’s plans to vaccinate all its adults this year, amid fears the country will face another surge of coronavirus infections in the winter. India’s ongoing second wave, the world’s worst since the pandemic began, has overwhelmed its health system. The government last week publicly estimated 1.46 billion doses of its three approved shots — AstraZeneca, Sputnik V and Covaxin — would be made between August and December. Production of the AstraZeneca vaccine, named Covishield and of which the Serum Institute of India (SII) is the biggest maker in the world, is expected to reach 100 million to 110 million doses a month from July and stay at that level for the foreseeable future, a source with knowledge of the matter said. That would be at least 200 million doses less than the government’s public forecast of 750 million Covishield doses for the last five months of the year, a 27per cent shortfall. An internal government projection for August and September shared by a second source put the monthly number of Covishield doses at 100 million, out of 200 million for all the three approved shots combined. The sources declined to be named, discussing a subject on which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has been criticised because of a shortage of vaccines. Immunisations have fallen sharply since an April peak. The ministry of health and family welfare did not respond to queries from Reuters. The SII, which is facing raw material shortages for another vaccine that the government is banking on, declined comment. A spokesperson for Covaxin-maker Bharat Biotech said that last month the company had raised its annual production capacity to more than 500 million doses, or about 42 million doses a month. It has been producing about 10 million doses a month. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the local distributor for Russia’s Sputnik V, did not respond to a request for comment. Apart from the approved vaccines, the government has also forecast August-December production of 866 million doses of five yet-to-be-approved vaccines. Overall, the government has pledged to make 2.67 billion doses available this year. The SII has already halted exports until the end of the year to meet domestic demand, in a major blow to dozens of poor countries relying on it for supplies. India has so far administered 187 million vaccine doses, the most after China and the US, but fully immunised only about 3 per cent of its 1.35 billion people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Miscalculation shadow on deaths in sea||Inadequate advance notice and miscalculations of Cyclone Tauktae’s ferocity and its path may have contributed to a false belief that oilfield operations in the Arabian Sea need not be paused, said top sources close to the ONGC whose vessels with 700 on board were struck by the storm. The death toll from the barge P305 that sank in the Arabian Sea rose to 49 with the recovery of more bodies even as the navy and the Coast Guard searched for 37 other missing people since the severe cyclonic storm battered the region. The chief engineer of P305 that sank off the Mumbai coast during Tauktae alleged on Thursday that its captain did not take the cyclone warning seriously. Rahman Shaikh also questioned the vessel’s seaworthiness. A drillship of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and three barges of private contractor Afcons working on the state-owned firm’s oilfield went adrift after their anchors gave away in the storm on Monday night. A massive day-night operation by the Indian Navy, the Coast Guard and ONGC vessels helped save those on the drillship and two barges, but only 186 out of 261 on board accommodation barge P305 that sank four days ago could be rescued. The chances of finding more survivors are looking bleak, another official said. “Installations used to find and produce oil and gas from under the seabed are built to work in difficult weather conditions. In the Mumbai offshore, these installations stand in water depths of between 75 meters and 200 meters,” said a source with direct knowledge of the matter. The world over, offshore oil and gas operations are neither shut nor personnel evacuated in every adverse weather event. “It is done only if it is assessed that an event would be hard to handle,” he said. “Such assessment primarily depends on the weather input received by the operator.” In the case of Tauktae, the most severe storm to hit the west coast in more than two decades, the predictions on speed, atmospheric pressure and route went wrong, the source said. “More importantly, it takes about a week or so to shut operations, move vessels and shift people out as per the laid-down protocol for a mishap-free operation,” he said. “In the case of Tauktae, there wasn’t enough time to do so. Also, the forecast of path and ferocity were not accurate. The time that vessels had was enough only to shift to survival mode and not go for evacuation.” Another source said the captains of the ships were the final decision-making authority on board. All information received from the weather department and the Coast Guard were passed on to the operator as well as the captains of the four vessels, he said. “We don’t know yet why the captains chose to do what they did during the cyclone,” the source said, adding an inquiry committee had been set up to look into the matter in detail. Recovering from his injuries, chief engineer Rahman said in a video shot by his brother Aalam that Balwinder Singh, the captain of P305, insisted that wind speeds would not be very high and the cyclonic storm would last only for an hour. “The captain said the wind would not go over 40 knots (about 75kmph). It will start at 11 and end at 12. The entire incident happened because of the captain and the client,” Rahman, 48, said.  PTI Balwinder is among the people still missing. He is said to have jumped into the waters without a life jacket. The oil ministry on Wednesday constituted a high-level committee to enquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding of the vessels. The committee comprising Amitabh Kumar, director-general of shipping; S.C.L. Das, director-general of hydrocarbons; and Nazli Jafri Shayin, joint secretary, ministry of defence, will submit its report within a month. It has been asked to “inquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding and drifting of these vessels, and the subsequent events”. The terms of reference of the panel also include looking into “whether the warnings issued by the meteorological department and other statutory authorities were adequately considered and acted upon”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Health ministry asks all states to declare mucormycosis a 'notifiable disease'||The Union health ministry has asked all states to declare the fungal infection called mucormycosis as a “notifiable disease” requiring official documentation of all patients, signalling growing concerns about its emergence among Covid-19 patients. The directive sent on Wednesday is intended to get government and private health facilities, including medical colleges and private practitioners across the country, to report all suspected and confirmed mucormycosis cases to their district health authorities. Mucormycosis — a fungal infection also called black fungus that can affect the eyes, face, nose or the brain — has emerged in hundreds to thousands of Covid-19 patients across India, primarily among patients with poor sugar control and on oral steroid therapy prescribed for moderate to severe coronavirus disease. The standard treatment for mucormycosis is an anti-fungal drug called amphotericin-B, but the large numbers of cases in multiple states has led to a high demand and a shortage of this drug. Union chemicals and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday that he expects the shortage to be resolved soon as Indian companies have placed orders for 600,000 vials of the drug. Mandaviya also said existing domestic manufacturers have begun to ramp up production and the drug regulatory authority has given permission to five more companies to produce the drug. The health ministry has asked states to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and make mucormycosis a notifiable disease that would also require all government and health facilities to follow guidelines for diagnosis and management of the infection. Rajasthan on Wednesday had labelled mucormycosis as a notifiable disease. A senior health official said the directive for notification would also allow the country to compile the burden of mucormycosis at the district level across India. Senior doctors guiding India’s Covid-19 response had cautioned last week that steroid abuse and uncontrolled diabetes are likely contributing to the mucormycosis outbreaks, urging vigilance and preventive steps to curb its growth. Maharashtra, the state hardest hit by the Covid-19 epidemic, had until last week reported more than 2,000 cases of mucormycosis while some other states have reported 400 to 500 cases. The Union health ministry had said on May 14 that at least 10 patients have died and some have gone blind. Doctors classify the fungus as a low-virulence organism which has been known to cause infections mainly in patients with compromised immune systems such as transplant recipients who have been on immunosuppressant medications or cancer patients on chemotherapy. Although mucormycosis had been observed during the first wave too, the counts are much higher this time, a phenomenon that doctors say they do not fully understand yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Eight servitors in Puri test positive for Covid||Eight servitors engaged in the construction of the chariots of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri have tested positive for Covid-19, authorities of the Shree Jagannath Temple said on Thursday. All of them have been hospitalised. “All the 250 servitors engaged in the construction of the chariots were in home isolation. When their swab samples were tested, eight of them were found Covid-positive. Contact tracing has begun. However, the construction work of the chariots has not been hit. It’s going on smoothly. We are committed to it,” said the Shree Jagannath Temple administrator (development), Ajay Jena. Though, the administration claimed that it is handling the situation with all seriousness, the development has cast its shadow over the Rath Yatra scheduled for July 12. “Its almost final that the Rath Yatra will be held like the previous year without the participation of devotees. A formal announcement would be made to this effect at the right time,” an official said. On the other hand, like other states, Odisha is battling hard to contain the spread of coronavirus by intensifying the vaccination programme. But casualties due to the virus continue to rise. Eminent sculptor and Rajya Sabha member Raghunath Mohapatra had passed away due to Covid-19 on May 9. Raghunath’s youngest son died of Covid-19 11 days later. Raghunath’s eldest son, Yasobant, succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. Yasobant, 52, was admitted to hospital on Wednesday. Raghunath was blessed with five children, including three sons. The youngest one had passed away following a cardiac arrest two-and-a-half years ago. The deaths from an eminent family has plunged the state in grief. So far, 2,403 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state with 25 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Similarly, 11,498 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday and the total case tally in the state has touched 655,899. In order to check the spread of the virus to the rural areas, the state government has decided to launch a door-to-door campaign from May 24 with the help of accredited social health activist (Asha) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid toolkit: Congress urges Twitter to ban Nadda, Patra, Irani and Santosh||The Congress has urged Twitter to “permanently suspend” the accounts of BJP president J.P. Nadda and some of his party colleagues on the charge of circulating forged documents, spreading misinformation and trying to create disharmony in society, at a time Delhi police are yet to register an FIR into the Covid “toolkit” controversy. In a letter to the microblogging site, Congress research department chairman Rajeev Gowda and social media chief Rohan Gupta said: “As Twitter’s own policy and rules seek to discourage deceptive/synthetic/manipulated media that are likely to cause harm, we humbly request you to immediately remove the tweets (connected with the toolkit controversy) or any other such material on the Twitter platform. Also, you are requested to carry out a detailed probe on the subject matter and permanently suspend the Twitter accounts of the named individuals.” The letter named Nadda, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, Union minister Smriti Irani and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. The Congress said these politicians “are habitual of manufacturing forged content and misusing the Twitter platform for disseminating the same”. The Congress said the BJP leaders had “in a planned criminal conspiracy prepared a forged letterhead of the Congress research department and thereafter printed certain mischievous, false and fabricated content on the same for the purpose of dissemination through their official Twitter handles with clear intent to cause social unrest, communal disharmony in order to fuel hate and escalate violence in various parts of India”. The Congress has accused the BJP of illegally obtaining an Opposition party document on the Central Vista project, forging the letterhead and adding fabricated materials to it to give the impression that the Congress was trying to malign the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged pandemic mismanagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Over 100 retired bureaucrats write to Modi about govt's ‘casual approach’||A group of over 100 retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the “manifestly casual approach” of his government to the pandemic, the cornering of funds by the Centre to the disadvantage of states and the wasteful expenditure on the Central Vista project at a time of extreme agony. Also, 76 world-renowned academics and authors, including Nobel Prize winning novelist Orhan Pamuk, have called for the suspension of the Central Vista project and the diversion of its funds to address pandemic-related issues. The retired bureaucrats who have formed the collective Constitutional Conduct said in their letter to Modi: “And yet, what numbs our senses daily is not just the cries of the citizenry for medical assistance and the death toll in its thousands but the manifestly casual attitude of your government to the magnitude of the crisis and its implications for the mental and physical health of the community of Indians.” The letter continued: “Despite warnings from the international community and our own scientists, the breathing space between the first and the second waves was not used to augment critical resources…. Even more inexcusably, no advance planning was done to secure adequate stocks of vaccines, despite India being one of the major vaccine suppliers to the world. “The complacency displayed by you and your ministerial colleagues at various forums not only diverted attention from the looming threat but probably also contributed to both state governments and citizens letting down their guard at a crucial juncture. As a result, your ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is today compelled to seek the help of the outside world to lessen the agony inflicted on its own people by your government.” The letter is particularly scathing about the manner in which funds have been managed since the pandemic began. “Right from the outset of the pandemic in March 2020, your government has never systematically assessed the funds that state governments would need to tackle the pandemic. The PM CARES Fund was set up when there was already a Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund in place. “No disclosures have been made regarding the funds collected and the expenditures on various items. This fund attracted to itself moneys which would otherwise have gone from corporates and the public to the various CM relief funds and to NGOs. Your government has not been prompt in paying outstanding GST dues to the states, which could have helped them defray Covid care expenses. “At the same time, your government has incurred unnecessary expenditure on the Central Vista redevelopment project; these funds could well have been more gainfully used to tackle the crisis. On top of this, the harsh restrictions imposed on NGOs, especially those obtaining foreign contributions, have hampered their efforts in providing relief during the pandemic.” The letter also dwells on the government prioritising managing the narrative over dealing with the pandemic. In their statement on the Central Vista, the 76 academics and authors have expressed particular concern about the planned demolition and relocation of the National Museum, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts and the National Archives Annexe. “The Central Vista demolition threatens the collections of these heritage repositories. We are concerned that such a shift would impact the state of conservation of several objects. Even under normal circumstances, it would be a complex and risky operation to shift the diverse and irreplaceable treasures of the National Museum, the archival records held in the National Archives, and the manuscript holdings of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. The current pandemic only exacerbates these risks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Courts duty-bound to quash false criminal cases: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that courts are duty-bound to quash false criminal cases against innocent citizens to prevent the abuse of the legal process. Therefore, if necessary, a criminal case can be quashed even before charges are framed or a trial court takes cognisance of the matter. Such power to quash the case at the initial stage to prevent prejudice against an innocent accused person can be exercised by high courts or even sessions courts under Section 397 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc), which confers revisional jurisdiction, besides the inherent powers conferred on the high court to quash any criminal trial under Section 482 of the CrPc. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose passed the ruling while directing Allahabad High Court to consider afresh the plea of gas agency dealer Sanjay Kumar Rai, who had challenged the high court’s refusal to quash a complaint registered against him under IPC Sections 504 (criminal breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The complaint was lodged by Kuldeep Mishra who claimed that the accused had allegedly threatened to riddle his face with bullets for seeking information under the RTI Act on alleged irregularities in the supply of gas cylinders. The chief judicial magistrate (CJM) had refused to entertain Rai’s plea that he should be discharged as the complaint was false and police had merely recorded the statement of the complainant without hearing his version or making proper investigation. Rai had further alleged that Mishra, who falsely claimed to be a reporter of a national daily, had dubious credentials and was involved in seven criminal cases. In spite of that, Rai said, police entertained Mishra’s complaint and filed a case against him. When Rai appealed in the high court, it refused to quash the case on the ground that the framing of charges should be allowed and high courts have no power to interfere with interlocutory orders passed by the CJM. Aggrieved, Rai filed an appeal in the apex court. The apex court allowed his appeal and, in a recent judgment, said: “This court, nonetheless, does not recommend a complete hands-off approach. Albeit, there should be interference, may be, in exceptional cases, failing which there is likelihood of serious prejudice to the rights of a citizen. “For example, when the contents of a complaint or the other purported material on record is a brazen attempt to persecute an innocent person, it becomes imperative upon the court to prevent the abuse of process of law. “Accordingly, we set aside the impugned order dated 28.11.2018 and remand the case back to the high court for its reconsideration in accordance with law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Help poor pay hospital bills, Priyanka tells Yogi||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying families are borrowing money to pay their coronavirus-infected relatives’ hospital bills and that the government should compensate them. “Besides government hospitals, private hospitals too have played an important role during the pandemic. They have set an example for quality and honest service,” the Congress general secretary’s letter, written in Hindi and dated Thursday, said. “But there have been complaints about some hospitals charging exorbitant rates. People are borrowing money from everywhere to pay the (hospital) bills.” Priyanka added: “Crores of people are uncertain about their future…. Some steps for the welfare of the honest and hardworking people are the need of the hour.” She suggested a few measures to help the people during the second wave of the pandemic. “Substantial measures should be taken to check the uncontrolled prices of essential commodities: edible oil, vegetables, fruits and other items of domestic need,” Priyanka wrote. “The people of the state are already suffering because of the increased electricity bills and smart meters. They should be given relief in the power bills during this crisis. There’s a rumour that it (power tariffs) will be increased again. Please don’t raise the electricity rate.” The domestic power tariff has risen by about 15 per cent since Adityanath took over as chief minister in 2017. The government is also substituting “smart meters” for the old meters, which it claims are giving wrong readings. However, government sources said thousands of people have complained to the electricity department that not only are the smart meters faulty, the workers installing them are blackmailing people and demanding bribes. Power minister Shrikant Sharma has promised multiple times to punish corrupt power officials and monitor the new meters but no action has yet been taken. “The schools are closed but the guardians are under pressure to pay the fees every month,” Priyanka wrote. “The schools too face a crisis because they have to pay teachers’ salaries. The state government should sit with representatives of the schools and the guardians and chalk out a plan to provide them relief. A financial package should be given to the schools.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Chemists and medical devise industry bodies seek jabs for staff||Two industry bodies representing chemists and medical device makers have asked the Centre to vaccinate their staff members against Covid-19 on priority, saying they worked through the epidemic despite facing an enhanced risk of infection. The All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists and the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry said on Thursday that their appeals to the Centre to include their staff members into priority populations such as frontline workers have remained unheeded. The AIOCD has demanded priority vaccination for an estimated 940,000 employees and workers in thousands of retail chemist and distribution outlets across the country, while AIMED estimates about 20,000 surgical and medical device dealers and staff. “Despite all dangers, every chemist is continuing to provide services,” J.S. Shinde, AIOCD president, and Rajiv Singhal, general secretary, said in a statement. “Dispensing and distribution of medicines is nothing less important than (the work done) by doctors, nurses, hospital staff.” “In spite of repeated appeals, chemists were sidelined for no reason,” they said, cautioning that if all 940,000 are not prioritised for vaccinations, “chemists would join the lockdown”. AIMED’s coordinator Rajiv Nath said the Union chemicals and fertilisers ministry had in February written to the health ministry seeking action on association’s request that the medical device industry employees be included in the vaccination priority list. “Our employees play a critical role in the supply chain for medical devices — they need to be protected on priority,” Nath said. “Otherwise, if they fall ill, there could be supply chain disruptions, leading to localised shortages of items such as oxygen masks, syringes and intravenous sets.” Nath said anecdotal accounts of Covid-19 deaths among members of the device supply chain network already point to possible disruptions in supplies. “In Delhi’s Bhagirath Place (a wholesale market for medical devices, among other items), every week, the Surgical Manufacturers Traders Association is announcing obituaries leading the market to be shut down, leading to supply disruptions,” he said. India’s vaccination campaign, launched in January this year, had initially prioritised healthcare and frontline workers such as police and defence personnel, municipal workers, and staff of similar public agencies for vaccinations before opening it up for all people 18 years or older. But amid vaccine shortages, AIOCD and AIMED executives say their employees should be prioritised. “It may be prudent to reset the vaccination plan for prioritised access rather than the free access and the associated current chaos,” Nath said. India’s vaccine shortages are rooted in what health experts and industry executives have described as poor planning that did not take into account the number of vaccine doses India would require to inoculate its large population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi HC asks hospitals with 100 or more beds to install PSA oxygen plants||Delhi High Court on Thursday asked all hospitals in the national capital with 100 or more beds to install PSA oxygen plants, saying a lesson needed to be learnt from the bitter experience everyone had due to the acute shortage of medical oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients. The high court said it was high time that at least big hospitals with 100-beds or more should have their own pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants which should have a capacity of at least two times their normal requirement as this would go a long way in reducing dependence on outside sources. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also asked the Delhi government’s principal secretary (health) to take up PSA oxygen plants with hospitals and file a status report by May 27. “Considering that the pandemic is once in a century and hopefully we will see the end of it sooner or later, we are of the view that larger hospitals with 100 beds or more should have their own PSA plants which should have a capacity of at least two times their normal requirement,” the bench said. It also said smaller hospitals and nursing homes with 50 to 100 beds should have PSA plants with a capacity fulfilling their normal requirement. “The bitter experience that everyone has had in Delhi with huge shortage of medical oxygen has certainly left a lesson to be learnt, particularly by hospitals,” the bench observed. The court said since the installation of the plants would need some space, it would be appropriate for the municipal corporations and the Delhi Development Authority to relax building by-laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court calls for vaccination at doorstep||Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was disheartened and disappointed with the Centre’s insensitivity and with the Mumbai civic body for not starting door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for senior citizens and the specially abled, bed-ridden and wheelchair-bound people. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni reiterated that the Centre needs to rethink its policy that says a door-to-door inoculation drive is not possible due to various reasons, including wastage of vaccines and probability of unmonitored adverse reactions to the jabs. The high court directed the chairman of the National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration of Covid-19 (NEGVAC), set up by the Centre, to consider the issue of introducing the door-to-door drive, and posted the matter for further hearing on June 2. “If the NEGVAC decides favourably to start the door-to-door drive, then the same shall be implemented without waiting for the court’s order,” the bench said. “We are very much disheartened with the central government. Central government officials really disappointed us. Your officials are completely insensitive. Instead of making elderly people rush to the (vaccination) centres, you (government) must reach out to them,” the court said. The bench noted that the Centre’s expert committee was working on surmises by saying door-to-door vaccination was not possible at present because of the probability that people might develop an adverse reaction to the vaccine. “Is there any scientific data which show that because of a particular vaccine a person has developed complications? Where is the data that even a single person has died after taking the vaccine? The expert committee should opine one way or the other. There cannot be any ifs and buts,” the court said. The court noted that in the UK, the same Covishield vaccine was being used and a door-to-door vaccination drive had been undertaken there. The court also lashed out at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for filing an affidavit saying it would start door-to-door vaccination only after the Centre issues guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
