22-05-2021||India||Congress questions govt’s slow vaccination pace, demands data on jabs||The Congress on Saturday questioned the government's statement that India will be in a position to vaccinate all of its adult population against the coronavirus by the end of 2021, and warned that if inoculations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram said both the IMF and the WHO have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination. The claim of the Union Health Minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data, Chidambaram said, adding that so far it is not. "We need data on capacity of domestic producers, orders placed vaccine-wise, import contracts concluded, agreed schedule of delivery etc. Nothing has been disclosed so far," he said in a series of tweets. Chidambaram said the final warning to the government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. "The Modi government cannot say 'we did not anticipate these consequences'. The government has been duly forewarned," he said. At a meeting to review the pandemic situation in nine states and union territories on Friday, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said, "Between August and December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses, while by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured." Vardhan also said that by the end of the year, the country will be in a position to vaccinate at least all of its adult population. Attacking the government, another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "Claim-Jan 2021: Modi Govt will vaccinate 30cr Indians fully by July end. Reality 22nd May: 4.1cr Indians got both doses." "Claim 21st May: India will fully vaccinate all adults by the end of 2021. Reality 21st May: Only 14 lakh vaccinated the whole day," he said, questioning the government's assertion. "We need vaccines, not (crocodile) tears!" he added. The remarks by Congress leaders came on a day Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Covid-19 vaccination centres for those in the 18-44 age group have to be closed due to lack of doses, and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for immediate supply of jabs and increasing the quota of the city. So far 50 lakh people have been vaccinated in Delhi. Further, 2.5 crore more doses are required to vaccinate all adults in Delhi, he said. "With this speed of 8 lakh doses per month, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all the adults alone. By then, no one knows how many waves will arrive and how many deaths will occur," Kejriwal said, urging the prime minister to raise the quota and supply to the city immediately. Earlier this week, the Congress had said the government should issue a white paper on its Covid-vaccination strategy, and urged Prime Minister Modi to accelerate the work on inoculating all Indians against the viral disease on a war footing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-05-2021||India||No decision on vaccine passport yet on WHO level, says Centre||The WHO is yet to reach a consensus on the vaccine passport issue for allowing international travel to those fully vaccinated against the coronavirus infection, the government said on Saturday and noted that discussions are still on. So far there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said."Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by other countries, people with negative Covid test reports are being allowed," he said. "When we will be able to reach a consensus at the world and WHO level (on vaccine passport issue), then we will take necessary steps, he said responding to a question on reports claiming that people who took Covaxin jabs may not be allowed to travel internationally as the WHO hasn't included it in its list of vaccines. The Health Ministry also dismissed similar reports on its Twitter handle as "misleading and speculative". Talking about vaccine wastage, Agarwal said Covishield vaccine wastage reduced from 8 percent on March 1 to one percent now while Covaxin wastage decreased from 17 percent to 4 percent in the same period. NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul clarified that lactating women can get vaccinated. "There were reports that after vaccination mothers should not breastfeed their child for a couple of days but I want to clarify that breastfeeding should not be stopped and should be continued. "In no situation, there is any reason in that context to halt or discontinue breastfeeding even for an hour," he said. On Covid-19 prevalence among children, Paul said seropositivity rate between 10-17 years is roughly the same as between 30-40 and children can also spread the infection "Whenever children contracted the infection then almost always symptoms are minimal, very mild disease or they are asymptomatic and because it is mild the mortality is very very less in them," he said. "We have a protocol of Covid disease among children. Protecting children from infection is equally important so that they do not become part of the transmission chain," he said. On mucormycosis or black fungus, Paul said the availability of medicines is being increased. Conditions such as diabetes, weakening of the immune system due to use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay and co-morbidities in Covid-19 may increase mucormycosis infection. "Steroids are life-saving. It is a wonder drug but its irrational use can lead to mucormycosis. So this outbreak does not progress and further harm is not caused, that is our responsibility," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-05-2021||India||At least I am taking stock of Tauktae on ground unlike Modi, says Uddhav||Amid opposition BJP's criticism over the duration of his visit to cyclone-hit Konkan region of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that he was at least taking stock of the situation on the ground and not conducting an aerial survey in a helicopter. His remarks were apparently aimed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who recently conducted an aerial survey in Gujarat, where cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc earlier this week. Thackeray on Friday visited Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in Konkan to know the ground situation in the aftermath of the cyclone, and directed the authorities to complete the crop loss assessment within two days. However, BJP leaders in the state targeted him over the duration of his visit. While former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said he was surprised to know that Thackeray was making political comments during his merely three-hour long tour of Konkan, Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council Pravin Darekar sought to know how the CM could understand in just three hours the extent of damage caused by the cyclone. When asked about the BJP's criticism, Thackeray said on Friday, "It's okay if my tour lasted four hours. At least I am on the ground taking stock of the situation and not in a helicopter for a photo session. I am a photographer myself. I have not come here to respond to the Opposition's criticism," he said at Malvan in Sindhudurg. Cyclone Tautkae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, also affected several other states along the west coast, including Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-05-2021||India||Ramdev calls allopathy medicines ‘stupid’, IMA strikes back||The Union health ministry should take action against yoga guru Ramdev as he has misled people by making "unlearned" statements against allopathy and defamed scientific medicine, the Indian Medical Association said on Saturday. Ramdev should be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as "untutored" statements are "a threat to the literate society of the country as well as to the poor people falling prey to him", the apex doctors' body said in a statement. Citing a video circulating on social media, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said Ramdev is seen saying that "allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalilya science hai (allopathy is such a stupid science)". He also says that "lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines", the association said, adding that Ramdev claimed Remdesivir, Faviflu, and all other drugs, which were approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, have failed in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. "The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) who himself is a practicing modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and head of this (health) ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances," the IMA said. It alleged that Ramdev is trying to take advantage of the situation and create a sense of fear and frustration among the people at large. He is doing this "so that he can sell his illegal and unapproved so-called medicines and make money at the cost of the public at large", the association said. The IMA said Ramdev deserves to be prosecuted for disobeying and causing danger to the life of many by making them believe to not to take the advice of allopathy doctors. "The IMA demands and resolves if the minister (Harsh Vardhan) is not taking suo moto action we will be forced to resort to democratic means of struggle to propagate the truth to the common man and knock on the doors of the judiciary to get justice,'' it said. Taking people for ransom and winning business by defaming scientific medicine are unpardonable offenses, the IMA said. Citing Ramdev's remarks it said such "untutored and unlearned" statements are a threat to society. Patanjali clarifies Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust later denied allegations by the IMA, saying he has "utmost regards" for doctors and support staff who have been working day and night during such a challenging time of the pandemic. He was "reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him and various other members who were participating in the event", a statement issued by the Patanjali Yogapeeth Trust added. "Swami jee has no ill-will against the modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory," said the statement signed by the trust General Secretary Acharya Balakrishna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Oxygen Express, piloted by an all-women crew for the first time, reaches Bangalore||An Oxygen Express train carrying 120 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) from Jharkhand, has arrived in the city. The train was piloted by an 'All Female Crew' from Jolarpettai in neighbouring Tamil Nadu to Bangalore on Friday. "The 7th Oxygen Express to Karnataka has arrived in Bengaluru from Tatanagar (Jamshedpur). This Oxygen Express train piloted by an all female crew will ensure continued supply of Oxygen for COVID-19 patients in the state," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Saturday. According to the South Western Railway, loco pilot Sireesha Gajini and assistant Loco Pilot Aparna R P drove the train from Jolarpettai to Bengaluru. "All-women crew piloting an Oxygen Express is rare because we don't have many women loco-pilots in Railways," Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railways Aneesh Hegde told PTI. Meanwhile, the eighth consignment of the life saving gas weighing 109.2 metric tonnes reached the city from Jamnagar in Gujarat on Saturday. The state government has sought 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily in view of rising COVID cases in the state. Karnataka has reported 32,218 fresh infections and 353 related deaths on Friday taking the total caseload and fatalities to 23.67 lakh and 24,207 respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-induced lockdown by another week||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced extending the ongoing covid-induced lockdown, slated to end on May 24, by another week. Chief Minister M K Stalin announced the government's decision after holding discussions with a medical panel and a legislature committee comprising of members from all parties on Saturday, besides with officials. "To control the spread of the pandemic, the ongoing lockdown will be implemented from May 24 for another week without any relaxations," Stalin said in a statement. The restrictions will come into effect from Monday. Accordingly, for people's benefit shops will remain open till 9 pm on Saturday and from 6 am to 9 pm on Sunday, when otherwise a day-long total shutdown will be in place, he added. Further, inter-district bus services will be operated on Saturday and Sunday. Pharmacies can remain open during the extended lockdown while distribution of milk, water and newspapers can continue. The state horticulture department will ensure supply of vegetables and fruits through mobile outlets in the city and elsewhere in association with local bodies, Stalin said, adding only essential departments will function in the state Secretariat and the districts. Private firms, IT companies and banks should ensure work from home concept while e-commerce services can be operated from 6 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and eateries can sell only takeaway services from 6 am-10 am, 12-3 pm and 6-9 pm and e-commerce food supply firms will also be allowed to operate only during this schedule, Stalin said. Fuel outlets, ATMs will be open and inter-district travel for valid medical reasons and deaths alone will be allowed after e-registration. There was no need for such a registration for intra- district movement for medical reasons, he added. Continuous process industries and those manufacturing essential commodities and medical equipment will be allowed to function as per existing guidelines. Calling for public cooperation to the government's efforts to stem the spread of the virus, Stalin urged people to follow due protocol like social distancing and wearing of masks. He pointed out that the state had reported about 36,000 new covid infections on Friday while the active cases stood at around 2.74 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Over 23,000 vials for drug to treat black fungus allocated to states, says government||With cases of mucormycosis or black fungus increasing, the government has allocated 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to various states and union territories (UTs), Union Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Saturday. The allocation has been made based on the total number of patients which is around 8,848 across the country, he noted. "After a detailed review of rising no. of cases of #Mucormycosis in various states, a total of 23,680 additional vials of #Amphotericin- B have been allocated to all States/UTs today," Gowda, who is Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers, tweeted. States like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Telangana have been allotted 75 per cent of the additional vials, he noted. Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. It is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Ensure proper supply of medicines for black fungus, Sonia tells PM||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the assured supply of essential medicines for the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) and cost-free care to those affected. In a letter to the prime minister, she also pointed out that the illness is not covered under Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance plans and sought immediate action on the issue. Gandhi said the government had asked states to declare mucormycosis an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act. This would mean that there must be adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat it, and cost-free patient care for those in need of treatment, she added. "I understand that Liposomal Amphotericin-B is absolutely essential for the treatment of Mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market," the Congress chief wrote in the letter. "Further, the illness is not covered in Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance products. I would request you to kindly take immediate action on this matter to bring relief to the large number of patients being affected by Mucormycosis," she told the prime minister. The Congress chief's request comes at a time when the country is seeing a large number of cases of black fungus and even some deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm||Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Odisha and the West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. A low pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday. While a low pressure area is the first stage of formation of a cyclone, it is not necessary that all low pressure areas will intensify into cyclonic storms. "The low pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over eastcentral Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 23rd May morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify into a Cyclonic Storm by 24th May and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts by the morning of May 26, it said. It is very likely to cross West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around the evening of 26th May, the IMD added. Last week, extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Gujarat coast and left a trail of destruction all over the western coast. As it weakened further, its impact was felt across the north Indian plains and even in the hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The April-May and the October-December periods are also known to witness cyclones. Last May saw the formation of two cyclones one in the Bay of Bengal (super cyclonic storm Amphan) and the other in the Arabian Sea (severe cyclonic storm Nisarga) that hit the Indian coasts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Govt should ask capable firms to produce Covaxin within 24 hours, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said COVID-19 vaccination centres for those in the 18-44 years age group are being closed in the national capital due to lack of doses and appealed to the Centre to provide more vaccines. From Sunday, all vaccination centres for youths in Delhi will be closed as stocks have run out, he said in a press conference. Delhi requires 80 lakh doses a month to vaccinate its youth. But it only received 16 lakh doses in May. The Centre has further decreased Delhi's quota in June to 8 lakh doses, Kejriwal said. The national capital needs 2.5 crore doses to vaccinate all adults, he said, urging the Centre to raise the quota and supply to the city. Kejriwal said that the speed of spread of the coronavirus has significantly slowed down in Delhi. In the past 24 hours, around 2,200 cases were reported and the positivity rate is 3.5 per cent, he said. The chief minister extended four suggestions to the Centre to enhance vaccine availability in the country. The central government should within 24 hours direct all capable companies in the country to start manufacturing Covaxin as Bharat Biotech has agreed to share its formula, he said. Vaccines manufactured abroad should be used in India and the Centre needs to buy vaccines on the behalf of states, Kejriwal said. Foreign companies should be allowed to manufacture vaccines in India and the Centre should try to get vaccines from such countries that have more doses than what they need, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Education ministry calls meeting on pending Class 12 board exams on Sunday||The Ministry of Education has called a crucial meeting on Sunday to discuss the issue of pending Class 12 board exams, which were postponed in view of the second wave of COVID-19, Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said. The meeting will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be in attendance. "I recently held a meeting with the state education secretaries in this regard. The consultative process will be further strengthened through a high-level meeting to be chaired by Hon'ble Defence Minister Shri @rajnathsingh Ji," Nishank tweeted on Saturday. "All the state government education ministers and secretaries have been requested to attend this meeting and to share their valuable views with regards to upcoming examinations. This virtual meeting will take place at 11.30 am on 23rd May, 2021," he added. In a letter to states and union territories, the Union education minister has stated that the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Education, and the CBSE are exploring options regarding the conduct of examinations, keeping in mind the safety and security of the students and the teachers. "The Department of Higher Education is also deliberating upon the finalization of the dates of examinations for institutions of higher learning. COVID-19 pandemic has affected various areas including the Education sector, particularly the board exams and entrance exams," the letter noted. "In view of the prevailing situation, almost all the State Education Boards, CBSE and ICSE have postponed their Class XII examinations, 2021. Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) and other national exam conducting institutions have also postponed the entrance exams for admissions to professional courses," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Teen dies after being beaten up by police for violating Covid curfew in UP ||Two Uttar Pradesh Police constables and a homeguard have been charged with murder of a 17-year-old boy who died here after being beaten up for "violating" the ongoing COVID-19 curfew in the state, officials said on Saturday. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code section 302 (murder), they said. Constables Vijay Chodhury and Simavat have been suspended and homeguard Satyaprakash has been sacked, police said. The incident had taken place on Friday in the Bhatpuri locality in Unnao district's Bangarmau when the boy was selling vegetables outside his house. The boy's family alleged that he was caught by a constable for allegedly violating the 'corona curfew' and thrashed with a stick. He was later taken to a police station, where he was again thrashed following which his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to the Community Health Centre, where he was declared dead, the family alleged. He was beaten up in front of the inspector in-charge, the boy's family alleged. Agitated over the police action, locals blocked a road and their protest ended late on Friday night after senior police officers, including ASP Shahi Shekhar Singh, assured the boy's family all help, an impartial probe, and handed over a copy of the FIR. The family has demanded action against the guilty, a government job and compensation. Following the assurances , the boy's body was handed over to police for post mortem. In a statement issued on Friday night, police had said, "Constable Vijay Chodhury has been suspended with immediate effect in the matter and services of homeguard Satyaprakash have been terminated. " The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed the curfew in the state till 7 am of May 24 to curb the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks social media platforms to remove content mentioning 'Indian variant' of Covid||The government has asked social media companies to immediately remove any content on their platform which mentions or refers to the term 'Indian variant' of coronavirus, in a bid to curb spread of misinformation around COVID-19. Digital platforms said they have received the latest advisory. On Friday, the IT ministry wrote to all social media platforms emphasising that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports. A notice issued in this regard by the IT ministry states that a "false statement" is being circulated online that implies that an 'Indian variant' of coronavirus is spreading across the countries. The IT ministry said the matter has already been clarified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on May 12, 2021 through a press statement. The social media platforms have been asked to "remove all the content that names, refers to, or implies 'Indian variant' of corona virus from your platform immediately". Previously, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had issued advisories regarding curbing of false news/misinformation concerning coronavirus on social media platforms. India is one of the biggest markets for digital platforms like Google, Facebook, and Twitter. As per data cited by the government, recently, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, while 21 crore use Instagram and 1.75 crore are on Twitter. Govt asks social media platforms to remove content mentioning 'Indian variant' of coronavirus Earlier this year, the government had introduced guidelines to curb the misuse of social media platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||India records 2.57 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,194 casualties in a day||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the sixth consecutive day, with 2.57 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,62,89,290. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,95,525 with 4,194 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 29,23,400 comprising 11.12 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 87.76 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in the country surged to 2,30,70,365, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,64,84,155 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to May 21 with 20,66,285 samples tested on Friday. The 4,194 new fatalities include 1,263 from Maharashtra, 467 from Tamil Nadu, 353 from Karnataka, 252 from Delhi, 172 each from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, 159 from West Bengal, 142 from Kerala, 129 from Rajasthan, 116 from Uttarakhand, 112 from Haryana, 104 from Andhra Pradesh and 96 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 2,95,525 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 86,618 from Maharashtra, 24,207 from Karnataka, 22,831 from Delhi, 19,598 from Tamil Nadu, 18,760 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,054 from West Bengal, 12,888 from Punjab and 12,391 from Chhattisgarh, the ministry said. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Sambit Patra's Cong 'toolkit' tweet marked as 'manipulated media'||Twitter on Friday labelled as “manipulated media” BJP leader Sambit Patra’s post on what he had claimed was a Congress “toolkit” on Covid, indicating that the contents had been “deceptively altered or fabricated”. The Congress had on Thursday complained to Twitter against Patra, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and other leaders of the ruling party for allegedly circulating forged documents, spreading misinformation and trying to create disharmony in society, and demanded their accounts be permanently suspended. The Congress has also filed multiple police complaints, including one with Delhi police, but no action is known to have been taken yet. By Friday evening, government sources began claiming that the ministry of electronics and information technology had written to Twitter to remove the “manipulated media” tag from Patra’s tweet, saying the matter was pending for investigation before the police. There was, however, no official confirmation of this. According to the sources, the government had emphasised to Twitter that such “content moderation” put a question mark on the microblogging site’s status as an “intermediary”, and that the police investigation would determine the veracity of the content uploaded by Patra. Twitter’s head of global public policy and communication, Ian Plunkett, told The Telegraph on Friday night: “We can confirm this tweet has been labelled in line with our global Synthetic & Manipulated policy. We have nothing further to share.” Patra, who had first made the allegation that the Congress had prepared a toolkit to defame the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged pandemic mismanagement, had tweeted on Tuesday: “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of ‘Friendly Journalists’ & ‘Influencers’ than a soulful endeavour. Read yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed.” The BJP spokesperson had attached to the tweet screenshots of the alleged toolkit. Twitter on Friday marked this tweet as “manipulated media”. The microblogging site’s policy says this on manipulated media: “...We may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated.” The policy asks people not to share “deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media’s authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result”. Several Union ministers and BJP leaders, including Nadda, had shared the tweet. However, these tweets have not yet been similarly labelled by Twitter. The Congress has alleged that the BJP had illegally obtained an internal Congress memo on the Central Vista project, forged the Congress research department’s letterhead from it, used portions of the document and added to it false and fabricated materials to create the impression that the Opposition party was trying to malign the Centre and Modi over the handling of the Covid crisis and to brazenly publicise the humanitarian work the Congress was doing during the pandemic. Fact-checking website AltNews has studied the “toolkit” and the genuine Congress research paper and concluded that the toolkit was a forged document. The BJP and the RSS, aided by sections of friendly media outlets, had gone to town with the purported toolkit until the party was left embarrassed by Twitter’s labelling. Twitter had earlier marked as “manipulated media” then US President Donald Trump’s unsubstantiated claims on voter fraud before permanently suspending his account. The BJP was tight-lipped on Friday over the Twitter label. This newspaper’s calls and messages to Patra for a reaction went unanswered. The controversy created by the BJP over the “toolkit” has come at a time the Modi government is facing unprecedented anger over its alleged mismanagement of the pandemic. At the same time, the Youth Congress and its parent party have been widely appreciated for selflessly helping people arrange hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, and even facilitating cremations. A jittery BJP has tried to discredit the Congress’s efforts, accusing it of blocking hospital beds and indulging in a cynical public relations exercise. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas, acclaimed nationally and internationally for his service during the pandemic, has been subjected to police questioning. The purported toolkit had also claimed that none should be helped unless the Congress was tagged on social media by those appealing for assistance. It had tried to cast communal aspersions on the Congress by creating the impression that the party was planning to solely blame the Kumbh for the pandemic’s second wave while going soft on Id gatherings. ‘“Shame Hindu, blame Hindu’ tactic of ‘provisional’ Janeudhari Rahul Gandhi.… Blame Kumbh to shame Hindus.… #CongressToolkitExposed,” textiles minister Smriti Irani had tweeted. Other BJP leaders like Nadda, B.L. Santosh, Piyush Goyal, Hardeep Singh Puri, Kiren Rijiju, Anurag Thakur and Pralhad Joshi too had posted tweets on the toolkit to attack the Congress. Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Sessions court in Goa acquits Tarun Tejpal in sexual assault case||A sessions court in Goa on Friday acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal of charges of sexually assaulting a then colleague when he was editor-in-chief of Tehelka magazine. Tejpal was accused of assaulting the woman colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. The high-profile case was presented as a fight for justice for a young employee against a celebrity editor in a country where few speak out about abuse of power and sexual harassment in the workplace. Tejpal, 58, was in court with his family when additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi pronounced the verdict around 10.45am. “The court has acquitted Tejpal of all the charges. A detailed order about it will be made available later in the day,” advocate Suhas Velip, junior to Tejpal’s counsel Rajiv Gomes, told reporters. Gomes died of Covid last week. The prosecution said it would challenge the acquittal in the high court. After the verdict, a statement issued by Tejpal was read out to the media by his daughter Tara outside the court building in Mapusa town near Panaji. The statement thanked the court for its “rigorous, impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record”.    Tejpal said: “The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives.” Activists say women in Indian workplaces hesitate to speak up about sexual harassment by colleagues, managers or employers, fearful of losing their jobs or facing public opprobrium. “The judicial system lets down another woman. No wonder women do not want to file a complaint with the police,” Kavita Krishnan, secretary of the All India Progressive Women’s Association, a Leftist group fighting for women’s rights, said on Twitter. “At the end of it all, the courageous woman did not get even a tiny taste of justice.” There was no response from the complainant. Public prosecutor Francis Tavora said: “As soon as we get the detailed written order, we will approach the high court challenging it.” The Goa police had registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013, after which he was arrested. He received bail in May 2014. After the Goa crime branch filed a chargesheet, Tejpal faced trial under penal code sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control). Friday’s acquittal comes after three adjournments of the verdict, from April 27 to May 12, then to May 19 and finally to May 21. “We have felt the boot of the state, but all through it we have co-operated fully with the Goa police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings,” Tejpal said. He remembered his late advocate Gomes as a “dynamic and brilliant” lawyer. With Tejpal as its editor, Tehelka had made a name for itself by exposing corruption and abuse of power in high places, especially in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s NDA government. The magazine had also taken a stand against sexual violence. India’s rape laws have been tightened and fast-track courts have been set up since the gang rape and murder of a young woman in a Delhi bus in 2012. But the criminal justice system remains slow and cases are still taking an average of six years to reach a final ruling, according to governance-tracking group Daksh. Many cases fall by the wayside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Expert panel asks Centre to help states conduct well-designed surveys||An expert panel has asked the Centre to help the states conduct well-designed surveys on the prevalence of Covid-19 to understand the evolving epidemic, expressing concern that three nationwide surveys have so far not helped guide policy. The panel, which includes scientists and other experts on testing strategies, has also said that testing kit suppliers would need to be ready to respond to recurring surges and the country would need to assess the possible demand for tests every three months. While India has dramatically scaled up its Covid-19 testing capacity — from a single diagnostic lab in early 2020 to more than 2,500 labs now — health researchers say the second Covid-19 wave has revealed gaps in testing facilities and highlighted critical tasks that are yet to be done. The panel, in a report outlining strategies for equitable, cost-effective and scalable testing, has proposed centralised or pooled procurement of tests that would help lower their costs, standardise their quality and increase their availability. “Our recommendations make a case for reinforced testing and tracing measures to limit the ongoing pandemic and avert impending ones,” said Rajiv Shah, president of The Rockefeller Foundation, a US-based private foundation that produced the report calling it a “strategic road map” to strengthen testing. The report says India needs to invest to develop its capabilities to link the datasets of genome sequences circulating in the country with clinical data on Covid-positive patients and the epidemiological patterns of the infection to guide public health responses to Covid-19. The panel members have expressed concern that the nationwide infection prevalence surveys conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research until now have not followed a design or a periodicity that would help the states gain epidemiological insights into how the infection is spreading. These surveys did not provide district-specific or state-specific pictures of infection prevalence. When they did come up with valuable information, the policy makers did not make best use of them. The ICMR surveys had shown that the nationwide prevalence had increased from 0.7 per cent in April-May 2020 to 6.6 per cent in August-September 2020, and to 21 per cent by January 2021. But these findings did not efficiently guide policy, the panel members said. Health experts not associated with the report had earlier expressed similar concerns, underlining that a 21 per cent prevalence implied that 79 per cent of India’s population was still susceptible. “We failed to translate this critical information into policies or actions that might have helped mitigate the impacts of the second wave,” said a senior medical expert who requested not to be named. “The report calls for smart and periodic testing and periodic infection surveys,” L.S. Shashidhara, a senior biologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, who is currently at Ashoka University and is one of the co-authors of the report, told The Telegraph. “We need periodic surveys that sample populations from different parts of the country to monitor both infection prevalence rates and the variants. It is only when we do this again and again that we might catch a surge before it actually occurs.” The report said the Centre should help the states plan such infection surveys that can provide insights into transmission patterns in real time and guide policy-making at regional and national levels to mitigate the impacts of future surges. It said a threefold reduction in the cost of Covid-19 testing could be achieved if the states procured testing kits and consumables through a consortium facilitated by the Centre rather than independently. The experts have cautioned that imposing cost caps in the states without accounting for the diverse cost components will make it unviable for the private sector to sustain testing, shifting the burden to the public sector. In the early weeks of 2021, as India’s number of daily new infections was declining, many private labs had either stopped offering Covid-19 testing or de-prioritised it by using only marginal capacity before the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre and Pfizer at odds on jab indemnity bond ||Pfizer and the Indian government are at loggerheads over a demand by the US drug maker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world’s biggest markets, two sources told Reuters. India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely rolled out, including Britain and the US. “The whole problem with Pfizer is the indemnity bond. Why should we sign it?” an Indian government source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters. “If something happens, a patient dies, we will not be able to question them (Pfizer). If somebody challenges in a court of law, the Centre will be responsible for everything, not the company,” the source added. Pfizer and the Union health ministry did not reply to requests for comment on Friday. The second source said Pfizer was not going to change its position on the indemnity issue. Both sources declined to be named as they were not authorised to talk to the media. India, which is facing a shortage of shots as coronavirus cases soar, pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none of them has since sought permission from India’s drug regulator to sell its vaccine in the country. The second source said the other issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government’s insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany’s BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech in collaboration with state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, have completed the small-scale safety trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Mumbai to build four centres for children infected with Covid-19||India’s crowded financial hub Mumbai won plaudits this year for tackling the second wave of the pandemic better than any other metropolis in the country — and it is gearing up to get ahead of a potential third wave that experts fear could affect children. Mumbai is building four mammoth centres across the city with units for children infected with Covid-19 and it is working closely with a special task force that includes some of India’s top pediatricians, the city’s civic chief said. “If a two-year-old child becomes highly symptomatic, how can you deposit the child in hospital without the mother?” Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told Reuters. “We have already started preparing for that.... One should be faster than the virus.” With more than 25 million infections, India has the world’s second-largest caseload after the US and many of its states have been grappling with a lack of hospital beds and inadequate oxygen and medical supplies. Mumbai, in India’s richest state Maharashtra, struggled initially with one of the highest caseloads in the country but reined in the virus with strict lockdowns, widespread testing and a decentralised Covid management system. Chahal, widely credited for successfully managing the surge there, said the four Covid care centres with pediatric units, as good as hospitals, would be able to house more than a thousand children along with a parent. The facilities, which will also have intensive care units (ICUs), will be ready by next month, well before experts predict the third wave will hit, said Chahal, adding that there is ample funding from the state, companies and even Bollywood celebrities. The city is spending tens of millions of rupees to build the pediatric units and is already procuring ventilators, monitors and other medical equipment, Chahal said. Apart from these units, the government is also in talks with hospitals to increase the number of pediatric beds and ICUs. The pediatric task force, led by Dr Suhas Prabhu, plans to train about 660 pediatricians on how to handle children affected by Covid-19, and then broaden the training to more staff. The third wave might not end up affecting children greatly, but cities like Mumbai cannot afford to be caught off guard, Prabhu said. Chahal was handpicked by Maharashtra chief minister Udhhav Thackeray in May last year to lead the city’s response when the virus hit. Chahal, the son of an army officer, set up local Covid “war rooms” in 24 zones in the city to decentralise pressure and hasten response. Even as some other cities in Maharashtra continue to report high numbers, Mumbai’s cases have plunged, says Prince Surana, a doctor who runs three hospitals in the city. But Chahal says Mumbai is not out of the woods. The city, like the rest of India, is still grappling with an acute shortage of vaccines. Mumbai has floated a global tender to acquire 10 million doses from private companies, Chahal said. “If we get the vaccines, in 60 days we can fully vaccinate Mumbai and negate the threat of a third wave,” he said. “That’s my biggest challenge and we are on it now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid:Uttar Pradesh village cries for help, Yogi govt wields FIR ||Mewla Gopalgarh village, around 100km southeast of Delhi, caused widespread consternation this week when news photos showed its residents being treated in a makeshift, open-air clinic run by unqualified practitioners. Now the Yogi Adityanath government has worked out its own remedy for such embarrassments — FIR therapy. A local politician who had alerted the media about the Covid situation in the Uttar Pradesh village has been booked for “act likely to spread infection” — a month after the Supreme Court cautioned state governments against “clampdown of information”. Yogesh Talan, Congress member and husband of the former sarpanch of Mewla Gopalgarh, located in Gautam Buddha Nagar or Noida district, is now at an undisclosed location. Disturbed by the death of a friend and the sight of several neighbours gasping for breath, Talan had called up journalists whose numbers he possessed. On May 15, the Noida edition of an English newspaper published a report about a motley bunch of quacks treating patients in the village under a neem tree with remedies that had little effect on what seemed moderate symptoms of Covid. Other local dailies and TV channels too picked up the story. Talan’s efforts paid off. On May 17, a state health department team came to test people in the village, and an ambulance was sent for one patient. The same day, an FIR was filed against Talan under sections 188 (disobedience of a public servant’s order), 269 and 270 (negligent or malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 505(1) (incitement) of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Noida officials conducted several raids on quacks this week. News agency PTI has reported that “112 people were tested in the village on May 13 while 154 (were) tested on May 17 with none resulting in a positive”. Media reports have suggested efforts by many state governments to downplay the Covid situation, for instance, by grossly underreporting the deaths. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, angered by reports of an oxygen and medicine shortage in his state, had last month issued an order to book “rumour mongers”. Reports say this led to FIRs against relatives of some Covid patients who had sought help on social media, and against some hospital managements that had put up notices declaring an oxygen shortage. Talan told The Telegraph over the phone: “The cops came on Wednesday but I was not at home. They did not give anything in writing. I decided to seek legal help before I returned home. I was happy when the medical team came on May 17, but they have not returned since.” Noida’s chief medical officer, Deepak Ohri, and police commissioner Alok Singh did not respond to messages and calls from this newspaper. Talan said: “No one wants to die. The nearest hospitals are in Jewar (3km away). On May 8, Rajender Singh was ill and his son took him to Jewar. The whole day they tried to admit him but could not find a bed. He died during the day. So, people now try and get whatever treatment is available.” He added: “I’m being punished because now the world knows that the health system forgot about us and there are people just taking any medicine, and managing cylinders for themselves and gasping for breath. The police will not rest until they get me, all the more because I’m with the Congress.” Talan went on: “I don’t feel scared of the police as such because the situation is so bad that one should rather be scared of the virus. But the villagers are scared. They are confused: (they fear) that if they speak out they will get stuck in cases, but if they don’t they may die.... “This illness (in the village) started after the panchayat polls. I know five homes where people are seriously ill, including my immediate neighbour. Three people have told me they are Covid-positive. Many don’t know how to check the test results online. Now that I’m outside the village, I can’t help them, either.” On May 19, a primary teachers’ association had listed 1,621 teachers and other school staff who it said had died of Covid after participating in the panchayat poll process, from training sessions that began early in April to the end of counting on May 5. Allahabad High Court has censured the state election commission for not carrying out mandatory RT-PCR tests on polling staff and candidates. A health activist said the Ayushman Bharat scheme had in 2018 promised the upgrade of 1.5 lakh health centres into “health and wellness centres” with facilities that would be expected to avert ordeals like Mewla Gopalgarh’s. These centres are to cover populations of 3,000 to 5,000. The 2011 census counted 2,539 residents in Mewla Gopalgarh, a figure that Talan estimates has grown to 4,000 now, but there is no health centre in the village. Under the government’s plan, 70,000 health and wellness centres should have come up by March 31 this year. In a reply to Parliament last year, the Centre had said that almost 30,000 had been set up by February 2020. No official figures on the subject have been readily available since then. “Where are these centres?” asked Harjit Singh Bhatti, president of the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, a health rights and voluntary service NGO. “People (villagers) are scared to go out (too far to seek healthcare) because the police harass the poor during lockdowns. They also have the misconception that big hospitals treat only big shots. They are more likely to access a functioning public health centre, or Covid care centre nearby,” Bhatti added. “People go to quacks when they don’t have this access and they can’t afford private healthcare. They often aggravate their condition and eventually end up in an AIIMS or Safdarjung Hospital when they are about to die.” The FIRs are yet to halt the rampaging virus, with Uttar Pradesh recording 347 Covid deaths on Thursday and the banks of its rivers still strewn with half-buried corpses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Serum Institute questions govt's move to include all age groups for vaccination||The executive director of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is producing the Covishield vaccine, on Friday alleged that the government began inoculating people from multiple age groups without taking into account the available stocks and WHO guidelines. Suresh Jadhav’s comments came at a time many vaccination centres are closed because of a shortage of doses. Speaking at an e-summit organised by Heal Health, a health advocacy and awareness platform, Jadhav said the country should have followed the WHO guidelines and prioritised vaccinations accordingly. “Initially, 300 million people were to be administered the vaccine for which 600 million doses were required. But before we reached the target, the government opened vaccination for all above 45 years, followed by those aged 18 and above despite knowing well that so much vaccines are not available,” Jadhav said. “That is the greatest lesson we learnt. We must take into account the availability of the product and then use it judiciously,” he added. Earlier, Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla had left India for the UK with his family and claimed that he was facing extreme pressure over vaccine supply. Jadhav stressed that vaccination was essential but even after getting jabbed, people are susceptible to the infection. “Therefore, be cautious and follow Covid-preventive guidelines. Although the double mutant of Indian variants are neutralised, yet variants can create problems in vaccination,” the Serum official said. “As far as the selection of vaccine is concerned, as per CDC and NIH (US health agencies) data, whatever vaccine is available can be taken provided it is licensed by the regulatory body. And it is too early to say which vaccine is efficacious and which is not,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||13 Naxalites killed in encounter in Maharashtra||At least 13 Naxalites, including seven women cadres, were killed in an encounter with police in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra  on Friday, officials said. The slain rebels belonged to Kasunsur Dalam (squad) of the Naxalites, police said. The encounter took place on a day the state home minister was visiting the eastern Maharashtra district, over 900km from Mumbai. A release by Gadchiroli police said they had received inputs that Naxalites had gathered in the Paidi forest area in Etapalli tehsil for extortion as auctions of Tendu leaves — used for making bidis or leaf cigarettes — were underway. A team of C-60 commandos, a special combat force of the district police, was sent to the area. The encounter took place between 6am and 7.30am as around 60 to 70 Naxalites opened fire on the C-60 commandos and kept firing despite an appeal to them to surrender, it added. After the rebels fled into the dense forest, the bodies of six male and seven female cadres were found, while some more rebels were possibly injured in the encounter, but managed to escape, the police said. One AK-47 rifle, an SLR, a carbine, a .303 rifle and explosives were recovered from the spot. Ankit Goyal, Gadchiroli superintendent of police, told reporters that the encounter was a “tribute” to the 15 police personnel killed in an ambush in the district in 2019. As many as 27 Naxalites have been killed in the district since September 2020, he said. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse praised the police for the operation. “Naxalites are trying to weaken our democracy. I am proud that police officers and personnel are fighting them ably,” he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Environmentalist Sundarlal Bahuguna dies of Covid at 93||Environmentalist Sundarlal Bahuguna, one of the architects of the Chipko Movement for forest conservation, died on Friday at AIIMS Rishikesh after having caught the coronavirus infection. He was 93. Bahuguna was best known for his role in the Chipko Movement, a major environmental and social movement that began in 1973 and encouraged local communities to prevent tree felling in the Himalayas, often by embracing the trees. The movement later received the 1987 Right Livelihood Award, often called the “Alternative Nobel Prize”. Jayanta Bandopadhyay, a retired IIM Calcutta professor and Himalaya expert who had been associated with Bahuguna for more than four decades, recalled his “vision” and hands-on approach. “Bahugunaji will always be remembered for his strong ecological thinking and its application in the case of the Himalayas, his vision to see the larger picture and zeal to tackle issues first hand and in close association with the community. His wife Vimalaji too played an important role in his initiatives,” Bandopadhyay said. As part of an early 1980s campaign against the large-scale deforestation of the Himalayas, Bahuguna had undertaken a 5,000km march from Kashmir to Kohima. The initiative led to legislation to protect some areas of the Himalayan forests. Bahuguna had refused the Padma Shri once in protest against the government’s Himalayan policy. About a decade ago, when Bahugunaji came to Calcutta for an environmental programme just after receiving the Padma Vibhushan, he had told The Telegraph: “I had earlier refused the Padma Shri. This time I accepted the (Padma Vibhushan) award with the hope that it would give some weightage to my proposal for a detailed Himalayan policy.” He had added: “Without such a policy, the Himalayas will perish in no time, especially with this persistent change in climate and global warming. I feel the entire Himalayas should be converted into a natural dam with a very aggressive afforestation that will allow the water course to run on its original paths.” Bahuguna had staunchly opposed the Tehri Dam project in Uttarakhand and defended the right of rivers, including the Ganga, to flow unhindered. He twice staged hunger-strikes to oppose the dam. “The rivers are affected. I have lived beside the Ganga for six decades and feel that its volume has reduced by half during that period,” he had said. Referring to climate change, he had warned: “I don’t know the timeline but the glaciers are receding in the mountains faster than earlier.” Uttarakhand has faced repeated natural disasters, attributed to climate change, in recent years. Bahuguna had been an active politician in early life and held the post of Uttar Pradesh Congress president, but later left politics to become a social activist whose work bore Gandhi’s influence. “My wife Vimala, who was a follower of Sarla Behn, Gandhiji’s disciple and a pioneer of women’s empowerment in India, had put to me the condition before marriage that I would have to leave politics and work for social development in the remote villages,” Bahuguna had said. “I was also influenced by Mira Behn. I left politics and joined the social movement — it was the turning point in my life.” Bahuguna’s lineage is Bengali — the family were Bandopadhyays. Generations ago, one of his ancestors had moved to Uttar Pradesh from Bengal in search of work and cured a king with his ayurvedic medicines. The grateful king gifted him an area called Bahuguna, and the family over time took on the name of its new estate. Bahuguna is survived by his wife Vimala Bahuguna, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||UP: Yogi’s social media cell employee kills himself||A young employee of the social media cell of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has hanged himself after purportedly tagging the BJP politician and a bureaucrat in a suicide note uploaded on Twitter in which he accused two seniors of harassment. Parth Srivastava, 28, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his Lucknow home on Wednesday. The members of the chief minister’s social media cell are employees of an outsourced private company. The cell is tasked with publicising the schemes of the state government, keep tabs on the social media activities of Opposition leaders and plan counter-attacks, sources said. In the purported suicide note, a picture of which Parth had shared with his colleagues and friends on WhatsApp and is claimed to have also uploaded on Twitter, he wrote: “My suicide is actually a murder. Only Shailja is responsible for playing politics and Pushpendra Singh for supporting her.” Parth’s sister Shalini Srivastava said he had tagged Adityanath and Shishir Singh, the director of the information and publicity department of the government, to the tweet. Shalini alleged that the 4am tweet could no longer be found on Twitter later on Wednesday. The matter came to light when Parth’s friends began a social media campaign titled “#JusticeforParthSrivastava”. Shalini, Parth’s elder sister, told reporters on Friday: “He posted the suicide note on Twitter while tagging the chief minister and Shishir Singh at 4am on Wednesday. They could have saved his life had they shown some sensitivity and got in touch with him or asked their subordinates to communicate with him. Instead, I noticed later that his suicide note posted on Twitter had been deleted.” Parth was found hanging from the ceiling fan around 7.30am by his family. Shalini said the police had seized Parth’s mobile phone from which he used to operate his Twitter account. In the two-page hand-written note, widely shared on social media, Parth had purportedly written: “Pushpendra bhaiya didn’t care for anybody other than Shailjaji. Pushpendra bhaiya used to get angry on others over minor issues.” “…Pushpendra bhaiya used to find weaknesses in others,” the note added. “Shailjaji retains her job only by doing sycophancy. She used to highlight my minor mistakes in front of others to prove that I was worthless. Congratulations, Shailjaji,” the note said, signing off with “your worthless employee, Parth Srivastava”. The police said they had not found the hard copy of the hand-written note that was being circulated on social media. Ajay Prakash Tripathi, the inspector of the Indira Nagar area where Parth lived, said on Friday: “Ravindranath, the father of the deceased, has informed the police about the incident and submitted a complaint. The police are conducting a probe before action is initiated.” The Telegraph tried to contact Singh, the director of the information and publicity department, but his cellphone was switched off. A source in the department said: “An internal investigation is being conducted because Parth was among those who closely coordinates with the chief minister’s office and the information department.” An employee of the social media cell said on the condition of anonymity: “Shishir Singh chairs meetings of the cell twice a day. He tells us to focus mostly on the work done by Adityanath.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Need for permanent infrastructure along seacoast to battle cyclones: Uddhav ||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said his government has sought central assistance to set up permanent infrastructure along the seacoast to minimise damage caused by cyclones. Speaking to reporters at Malwan in Sindhudurg district, over 530km from Mumbai, Uddhav said frequent cyclones caused immense damage to crops, property and loss of lives. “We have appealed to the Centre to provide the maximum aid. The Prime Minister is sensitive. We don’t want to indulge in politics,” the chief minister said. The Centre must provide some assistance, he said, adding that Cyclone Tauktae, which buffeted several parts of Maharashtra earlier this week, had caused extensive harm. The chief minister earlier in the day toured Ratnagiri, where five talukas, especially Rajaur and Ratnagiri, were severely affected by the cyclone. Mango, cashew and coconut plantations have been ravaged in Ratnagiri district. Officials said two persons had died and eight were injured, while 11 animals had been killed in the cyclone in Ratnagiri district. Seventeen homes were fully destroyed and 6,766 partially damaged. “A total of 370 cattle sheds were damaged, 1,042 trees uprooted, 59 shops and 56 schools damaged. Some 1,100 farmers have lost crops on 2,500 hectares, and power supply in 1,239 villages was impacted, though it has been restored now,” an official said. Responding to a query on BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis claiming that the chief minister was making political comments while touring cyclone-affected areas, Uddhav said. “I am not the leader of the Opposition. I am not frustrated.” “I don’t want to indulge in politics. More than a one-time package, I believe in permanent solutions. I want to appeal to the central government to amend the criteria of compensation under the SDRF and NDRF (disaster response funds),” the chief minister said. He said there was a need for underground cabling along the coast so that electricity outages could be avoided during cyclones, and permanent shelters must be constructed so that people could be smoothly evacuated. The death toll from the sinking of the barge P305 off the Mumbai coast during Cyclone Tauktae rose to 51 on Friday with the recovery of two more bodies from the Arabian Sea. The navy and the Coast Guard are continuing the search for the 24 still missing from the barge and 11 from the anchor boat Varaprada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SKM seeks PM's intervention in resuming stalled dialogue||The protesting farmers on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention in resuming the stalled dialogue with the government on the three contentious farm laws and warning of an intensification of their agitation if there was no response by May 25. In its letter, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella outfit of over 40 peasants’ unions spearheading the movement, has set May 25 as the deadline because they are mobilising for observing May 26 as “Black Flag Day” to mark not just the completion of six months of the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders but also the seventh anniversary of the Modi regime. “Mr Prime Minister, this letter is to remind you that, as the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you. This is to reiterate that we remain firm on our core demands: repeal of the three anti-people farm acts and legal guarantee for every farmer securing MSP, besides protecting farmers from the adverse impact of the proposed (parliamentary) electricity bill,” the letter stated. “If we do not have a constructive and positive response from your government by 25th of this month, we shall be constrained to announce a further intensification of our struggle in the next phase, beginning with the national day of protest on the 26th of May,” the SKM added, maintaining that farmers do not want to distract the government when there is a pandemic raging. While the SKM does not want to expose the farmers or anyone else to avoidable health hazards, they maintained that the peasants cannot give up their struggle. “It is a matter of life and death for them and for their future generations,” it said. By their count, 470 farmers have lost their lives during the protest at Delhi’s borders since November 26. There has been no dialogue with the government since January 22 when the 11th round of talks ended in a stalemate as the farmers were not prepared to accept the government’s offer to keep the farm laws in abeyance for a couple of years. For the farmers, this is not an option as the threat of the laws will remain on their heads like the proverbial Damocles Sword.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||24-year-old identical twins lose Covid battle together||Joefred and Ralfred Gregory moved through life as one. They went to the same college. They studied the same thing. They wore matching clothes. They trimmed their beards the exact same way. Identical twins, they were two handsome young men in northern India who above all else really loved each other. And when they both were struck by Covid-19 last month and hospitalised, it was like they shared one sick body. Hours after Joefred died, Ralfred’s mother told him that his brother was still alive, to keep his spirits up. But Ralfred sensed his brother was no more and said, from his hospital bed, “Mummy, you’re lying.” The next day, on May 14, Ralfred died too. The touching story of the twins who lived and died together has spread fast and wide on Indian social media, puncturing this nation’s numbing statistics — the daily Covid-19 case numbers, the death counts, the infection rates. This is a country that has suffered so much and keeps suffering. Though India’s overall case numbers have dropped this past week, the deaths keep going up. Joefred and Ralfred, 24, had a special bond. Though their parents gave them similar names, they said they didn’t raise the twins to copy each other. Still, neighbours said that where you saw one, you saw the other, even after they reached adulthood. They grew up, along with an older brother, in a one-story bungalow in Meerut. Their parents were teachers at a Christian school. The family was among the few Christians in a mixed, middle-class neighbourhood. As boys, they batted cricket balls together in a vacant lot. Together they hunched over the carrom table. Joefred was three minutes older. But there were none of those older brother-younger brother issues. “They were equals,” said their father, Gregory Raymond Raphael. “They argued, yes. But I never saw them hurt each other.” They went by nicknames: Joefi and Ralfi. As young men, they studied together: same year, same university in southern India, same subject, computer science. They wore their hair in the same style. They looked like mirror images. Few people, besides their parents, could tell them apart. They were the same height, around six feet, with the same muscular build. Friends said that at weddings, birthday parties and just about all community events, Joefred and Ralfred not only dressed the same but also stuck together in a crowd. “It was like they were merged,” said Manoj Kumar, a neighbour and family friend. “There was immense love between the two of them,” he added. Both were computer engineers, most recently working from home in Meerut, and on April 24, they came down with fevers at the same time, their father said. The family treated them at home, with some over-the-counter medicine, but began to worry as their condition worsened. In late April and early May, India was suffering the worst surge of infections that any country had seen since the pandemic began. So many people were getting infected at the same time, especially in northern India, that hospitals couldn’t cope. Sick people were being turned away. They were dying in the streets, in the back seats of cars parked in vain outside hospital gates, at home, gasping for air. There was a deadly shortage of lifesaving oxygen and medicine. It was the Covid nightmare that all nations have feared since the pandemic began, exploding with a fury. A week into their sons’ illness, the family decided to seek help and found space in Anand Hospital, a private facility with a good reputation not far from their house. Both sons tested positive for Covid and a doctor at the hospital said that by that point, the disease had progressed frighteningly fast. Both sons had very dangerous lung infections. Both were put on ventilators in the intensive care unit a few beds apart, Joefred in Bed 10, Ralfred in 14. On the morning of May 13, Joefred, the older twin, was losing his battle. His blood oxygen levels dropped to 48 per cent, his father said. Nothing could save him. The twins’ mother, Soja, was visiting the ICU at that moment. The doctors told her to leave. A few minutes later, around noon, they broke the news that Joefred had died. The mother, overwhelmed with grief, then went back into the ICU to check on Ralfred, who kept asking, “Where is Joefred? Where is Joefred?” His mother told him that his brother had been transferred to a bigger hospital. “We thought his condition would get worse if we told him what happened,” his father said. But Ralfred knew. He said to his mom, “Mummy, you lied. You tell me the truth.” But she didn’t. Ralfred then went into depression, his doctor said. And the next morning, less than 24 hours after his brother died, so did he. Of all the thousands of deaths in recent days, these two seemed to really unsettle people, perhaps because the twins were just in their 20s and had looked so healthy, or maybe it was simply their closeness. Their story is as much about love as it is about death. Across social media, people exchanged messages such as “This is so heartbreaking!” and “How devastating it must be for the parents. So young …”. Their father says he feels as if his heart has been torn from his body. “I keep thinking that maybe I shouldn’t have brought them to the hospital,” he said. “Maybe I should have kept them at home. There is a parental love that the hospital can’t give.” “But there’s no use of saying, ‘If this could have happened, or that could happened,’” he said. “My children are gone now.” Every day, he said, he visits the graveyard. Beneath a young neem tree, Joefred and Ralfred Gregory are buried in two coffins but one grave. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||S. Jaishankar to visit the US amidst efforts to procure Covid vaccines||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar is scheduled to visit the US next week as efforts are on to procure vaccines to meet the huge shortfall in India. The visit was announced days after US President Joe Biden decided to share 20 million vaccine doses from the country’s stocks with the world in addition to the 60 million AstraZeneca doses it already plans to release into the global pool. Officially, the external affairs ministry did not put out many details about the visit except that Jaishankar is expected to meet the UN secretary-general, Antonio Guterres, in New York during the five-day visit beginning May 24. Besides meeting his counterpart Antony Blinken in Washington, Jaishankar is also slated to meet other cabinet members and senior officials of the Biden administration dealing with the bilateral relationship. Jaishankar will also have two interactions with business forums on economic and Covid-related cooperation between India and the US, the external affairs ministry said in an official statement but did not divulge any more details. A key concern for India on the vaccination front remains the US restrictions on export of raw materials for vaccine production under the Defence Production Act. Though the Biden administration, under pressure, decided to divert its own order of supplies to the Pune-based Serum Institute for the production of Covidshield vaccine, the DPA remains a cause for concern for India. The US contention is that the DPA is not the cause for the vaccine shortages as is being made out by some quarters in India. “There’s just more global manufacturing happening everywhere in the world than suppliers can currently support,’’ a US official said. The DPA’s priority ratings require US companies to prioritise government contracts ahead of other contracts that they have in place for manufacturing in the country. “But what it does not mean is an export ban or a de facto ban or an embargo or any restrictions on sales to any other outside clients or customers anywhere. Companies are able to export however they need,’’ an official had said in a background briefing last month. As for the vaccines that the US has decided to share with the world in the hope that this will encourage other countries with extra stocks to release their vaccines into the global pool, the administration is yet to decide on the distribution. Asked for a ballpark figure on how many of the 80 million doses will go to India, the US state department coordinator for global Covid response and health security, Gayle E. Smith, said on Wednesday: “I can’t tell you at this point what the allocation is going to be per country.... We are with respect to India and also India’s neighbours mounting an emergency humanitarian response given the surges that are ongoing there.’’ A Reuters report at the end of April — after the Biden administration announced that it would share 60 million AstraZenaca vaccines under production in the US with the world — had said that India was hoping to get about 35 per cent of this lot but till date the quantum has not been fixed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Students see 'publicity stunt' in govt campaign ||The Centre on Friday announced a nationwide campaign against Covid involving students and other youths, but several students’ organisations dismissed the move as a “publicity stunt” meant to burnish the government’s sullied image. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is to engage five million students, teachers and other youths aged 10 to 30 years in the #YoungWarrior movement in collaboration with the ministries of youth affairs and health and other partners. These volunteers are to reach out to 50 million people and sensitise them about Covid, and receive certificates in return. “These actions include promoting access to verified health and essential services, vaccine registration, Covid-appropriate behaviours, myth busting, etc,” a letter from the CBSE to all its schools on Thursday said. “These tasks will be hosted in 10 regional languages to protect themselves, their families and their neighbourhood against Covid-19.” “Key messages and positive stories of youth action” will be promoted on social media “through partners and influencers”, the letter added, reflecting the publicity side of the exercise. Congress student wing NSUI, CPM-affiliated SFI and the CPIML Liberation’s AISA demanded the government vaccinate the youth first before using them to try and salvage its image, which its Covid mismanagement has left in tatters. “While this movement tasks the volunteers with helping people get registered for vaccination, there is a dire shortage of vaccines,” said Sunny Dhiman, NSUI leader and PhD student at JNU. While the CBSE letter does not explain what kind of “myth-busting” the government has in mind, Dhiman highlighted how BJP lawmakers and ministers had “created myths about the virus and (purported) remedies like cow urine and the unproven Coronil”. “The task (assigned to the movement’s volunteers) is to facilitate people’s access to health and essential services while the Uttar Pradesh government is punishing whistleblowers who expose the lack of essential services,” Dhiman said. AISA president N. Sai Balaji said the task of promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour might be misused for vigilantism and harassment of the public. “This campaign arouses more fear than confidence. We have seen BJP workers target innocent people in the name of protecting culture and promoting nationalism,” Balaji said. “This new initiative does not mention any criteria for selecting the volunteers. Ultimately, BJP and ABVP workers will harass people in the name of promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour.” SFI secretary Mayukh Biswas said the proposed movement was a “publicity stunt”. “Instead of prioritising vaccination, the government is building the Central Vista. The government will do a greater service by vaccinating the entire youth population than by engaging them in a campaign without ensuring vaccination,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha records highest ever single day death toll||Odisha on Friday reported 27 deaths because of the coronavirus infection, the highest ever single day toll. The number of positive cases, too, soared to a record 12,523, the maximum witnessed by the state on a single day. The total cases in the state now stand at 6,68,422. Besides Covid-19, black fungus or mucormycosis has emerged as a big challenge for doctors in the state. So far, Odisha has recorded 11 cases of this fungal infection, which is believed to be an offshoot of the complications borne out of coronavirus. Of these 11, one succumbed to the fungal infection while others were being treated at various hospitals. “We have declared black fungus as pandemic,” said state health minister Naba Kishore Das. The health department in a statement said: “Black fungus or mucormycosis has been included as a notifiable disease by exercising the power conferred by Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 until further order.” Das said all hospitals have been asked to provide health updates to the relatives of patients undergoing Covid treatment. “We have formed a committee, which will visit different hospitals and ensure that the needy people get ICU beds.” Cases of misuse of ICU facilities are being reported from hospitals. A senior judicial officer in Bolangir district, who was under going treatment for Covid-19, refused to vacate the ICU bed even after his oxygen level reached the safe level of 98. Senior government officials, somehow, managed to convince him to vacate it. Health officials have asked people not to panic. “We must look into the issue of recovery rate. It’s more important than counting the number of positive cases,” said Bijay Mohapatra, director of Health Services. On the issue of black fungus, Mohapatra said: “The fungus was there in the past. So no one needs to panic. Such cases have been found in the patients with weakened immune systems, particularly those with diseases such as diabetes or those undergoing immunosuppressive therapy.” The state, which is struggling to contain the pandemic despite a lockdown, will launch a door-to-door survey from May 24 to identify Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, 10 more people engaged in construction of the chariots for the upcoming Puri Rath Yatra have been infected. On Thursday, eight servitors had been reported carrying the virus. Worried over the rise in Covid-19 cases among the workers engaged in the chariot construction, the Shree Jagannath Temple administration has decided to create a bio-bubble around the area where construction of the chariots is taking place. “A bio-bubble is a secure sanitised area sealed from the outside world and only accessible by an approved set of people. It will keep the servitors safe from being infected with the Covid-19.  They will not get a chance to get in touch with people from outside. The people engaged in the construction of chariots will undergo Covid tests frequently,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Congress expresses ridicule and disdain at Modi's tears||Visuals of Narendra Modi appearing to choke on tears while talking about Covid deaths evoked ridicule and disdain from the Congress, which said a Prime Minister who had failed the nation during an unprecedented crisis was now trying to fool the people with theatrics. “India doesn’t need tears of guilt, India needs compassion and healing. India needs resolve to defeat Covid, India needs governance & delivery,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “Can we forget he was celebrating prematurely, making fun of experts who predicted grim scenarios and ignoring experts? He could have prevented the situation that is making millions suffer and cry.” Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal said: “What steps did the Prime Minister take to prevent this situation? The Prime Minister needs to act instead of giving speeches and suggestions. The parliamentary standing committee had alerted the government on an impending oxygen crisis. No action was taken. Imagine, a government can ignore the advice of a parliamentary committee amidst a pandemic… Actually, this points to criminality.” Many Covid deaths in India have been of people who could not get oxygen support. Within minutes of Modi seeming to turn emotional while speaking of those who have died of Covid,  messages accusing him of shedding “crocodile tears” and expressing anger at his government’s mishandling of the pandemic started appearing on social media. By evening, #CrocodileTears was the top trending hashtag on Twitter in India. At midnight, it was still the top trend, with 1.17 lakh tweets. Many uploaded pictures and videos of Modi addressing huge election rallies and gloating over the large crowds as the second surge rampaged through the country. Not only are the rally crowds being seen as super-spreaders, that the Prime Minister was electioneering when he should have been battling the pandemic has angered people. Opposition leaders and several social media users had been predicting over the past few days that Modi would “stage an emotional drama” to divert attention from his failures. On Friday, one of them, Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party, posted a video in which he had predicted last month that Modi would soon cry on television. Soon after the visuals of a sobbing Modi flashed on television screens, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “Gandhiji believed in Rama Rajya. Now we have D-rama Rajya.” Pawan Khera said: “The country has suffered for one year. Millions of people have cried. The country is bigger than the Prime Minister. A few drops of tears cannot make up for what the crores of people have faced because of his misgovernance. We are not concerned if he sobs in apradh bodh (guilt consciousness).” The Congress has accused the Prime Minister of abdicating his responsibility and taking wrong decisions like allowing the Kumbh, where more than 20 lakh people gathered and no Covid protocol was followed. It has also criticised Modi for devoting his time and energy over the past several months on elections, when he should have been preparing for the second wave of the pandemic, and ignoring suggestions from people with vast administrative experience, such as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Modi had boasted at a World Economic Forum dialogue in January that India had defeated the pandemic. While all countries had booked bulk vaccine doses in advance, Modi dithered and now India is facing a severe shortage. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Friday: “Mr Modi, vaccinate, not procrastinate.” The Congress also tore into the government and the BJP for obstructing those who were selflessly serving the people. After Twitter marked BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on an allegedly forged and defamatory Covid-related “toolkit” as “manipulated media”, Pawan Khera said: “BJP leaders and ministers should be ashamed. They don’t do their work and obstruct others through forgery and lies.” The Congress announced a nationwide plan to help the poor in rural areas register themselves for vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
