23-05-2021||India||Centre should put out district-wise data of daily inoculations: Congress||The Congress on Sunday claimed that there is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country and asked the Centre to put out district-wise data of those inoculated as state-wise data “hides” many facts. It also alleged that the manner in which the Centre has handled the entire vaccine issue is anything but cooperative federalism. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said after Delhi suspended vaccination for those in the 18-44 age group because of a shortage of vaccines, there is more bad news from Telangana. In 29 of the state’s 33 districts, no vaccine has been administered due to the unavailability of doses, he claimed. “The Union health ministry should put out a daily statement on the number of vaccines administered district-wise every day. The number for the whole state hides many alarming facts,” he tweeted. Chidambaram asked, “Will Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who had said that there is ‘no shortage’ (of vaccines), please respond to the facts emerging from Delhi and Telangana?” The Centre says that 1.6 crore vaccine doses are available with the states, but several states including Karnataka and Delhi have stopped vaccinating the 18-44 age group citing a shortage of vaccines, he said. The fact that the number of daily vaccinations is declining can only be attributed to the shortage of vaccines, the former Union minister said. Chidambaram also urged Vardhan to meet Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and resolve the issue of vaccine shortage. Taking a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the country’s leader is “arrogant”. “One there is a pandemic, on top of that the leader is arrogant,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, citing a media report that quoted a top official of Covishield manufacturer Serum Institute of India saying that WHO guidelines on vaccine stocks were not followed while announcing the vaccination drive. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused Modi of inflicting a colossal tragedy on the country. “The manner in which the Centre has handled the entire vaccine issue is anything but cooperative federalism. What a colossal tragedy the so-called ‘Vaccine Guru’ has inflicted on the country,” he said. The Congress has been critical of the government’s vaccination policy and slow pace of inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Indian Navy gets medical oxygen and other supplies from abroad||The Indian Navy on Sunday brought to India 340 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen, more than 3,700 oxygen cylinders and other medical supplies from abroad as the country continued to reel under a severe second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The supplies were brought by two warships from Singapore, Brunei and Qatar. Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said naval ship INS Jalashwa arrived at Visakhapatnam bringing 300 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and over 3,600 oxygen cylinders from Singapore and Brunei. It was the largest consignment of LMO brought to India from abroad. The ship also transported some other medical equipment including ventilators and empty cryogenic oxygen containers. Another ship, INS Trikand, arrived in Mumbai carrying 40 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen and 100 oxygen cylinders from Qatar, Commander Madhwal said. The two warships are part of nine ships deployed by the Indian Navy under operation ‘Samudra Setu II’ for shipment of liquid medical oxygen and associated equipment from friendly foreign countries in the Persian Gulf and South-East Asia. The Indian Navy stepped up its efforts as ships from all three naval commands in Mumbai, Visakhapatnam and Kochi were deployed to bring oxygen and other medical equipment under operation ‘Samudra Setu II’ following a shortage of oxygen supply in the country triggered by rising Covid-19 cases. Last year, the Indian Navy had launched Operation Samudra Setu as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission under which it brought back to India around 4,000 stranded Indians from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran. The Indian Air Force also brought to India a large number of cryogenic oxygen containers and other medical equipment from several countries in the last few weeks. On Saturday, the IAF brought oxygen containers from three countries. An IL-76 airlifted three cryogenic containers from Bangkok to Hyderabad while four such containers were brought to Hindan from Frankfurt and four from Ostend in Belgium to Panagarh in West Bengal. As India battles a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, around 40 countries have sent medical supplies including oxygen-related equipment to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have supplied assistance to India included the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Withdraw statement on allopathic medicines: Health minister to Ramdev||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday termed yoga guru Ramdev’s statement on allopathic medicines “extremely unfortunate” and asked him to withdraw it. In a two-page letter written to Ramdev by Vardhan, he not just asked him to withdraw his statement on allopathy but also mentioned about his comment hurting the sentiments of the frontline Covid-19 warriors. “The statement disrespects the corona warriors and hurt the sentiments of the country. Your statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken our fight against Covid-19,” he wrote. Vardhan termed Ramdev’s comment – ‘allopathic medicines have saved lives of crores and comments that it is responsible for death of lakhs’ as “extremely unfortunate”. He further wrote that the clarification issued by the face of one of India’s biggest consumer goods and alternative medicine empires was not enough. “Your clarification yesterday is not enough to make up for it... I hope you will think hard on it and withdraw your statements completely,” wrote the minister. Ramdev had drawn outrage and a legal notice from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), demanding a written apology for his statement that has damaged the reputation of allopathy practitioners who have been striving to save lives since the onset of the pandemic. Citing a video circulating on social media, the Indian Medical Association on Saturday had said Ramdev has claimed that allopathy is a “stupid science” and medicines such as remdesivir, faviflu, and other drugs approved by the Drugs Controller General of India have failed to treat Covid-19 patients. The doctors’ body also quoted Ramdev as saying that “lakhs of patients have died after taking allopathic medicines”. Besides the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA) too has served a legal notice to Ramdev. It has also condemned his comment. The IMA, earlier in a media statement, had said the Union Health Ministry should take action and prosecute Ramdev under the Epidemic Diseases Act as he had misled people by making “unlearned” statements and defamed scientific medicine. These remarks, however, were denied as ‘false’ by the Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Centre in favour of holding Class 12 exams, CBSE suggests two options||A high-level meeting could not arrive at a decision on pending Class 12 board exams on Sunday as several states objected to holding exams amid a pandemic, but the Centre indicated it was in favour of a short format exam for Class 12 with state boards allowed to take their own decision. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank sought detailed suggestions from state governments by May 25, asserting that "an informed, collaborative" final call would be taken at the earliest. The Centre, sources said, would probably announce the dates on June 1, reported ndtv.com. The Central Board of Secondary Education has suggested two options for the exams, which were postponed in view of the second wave of Covid infections. Reiterating that safety should be the top priority, the CBSE said it is taking a "flexible approach", reported ndtv.com. Under the first option, the exams can be conducted within a period of three months -- one month of pre-exam activities and two months for the exams and declaration of results. Another 30 days will be allowed for compartmental exams. Exams will be held only for major subjects and marks for minor subjects will be allotted on the basis of performance in the major subjects. August could be a likely month for holding exams, and the whole process is likely to go on till end September, the board said. Under the second option, 90-minute exams will be held in 19 major subjects. The students have to appear in one language and three elective subjects only. Based on their performance in these subjects, the results of fifth and the sixth subjects, as the case may be, will be assessed. The exams will be held at designated and limited number of exam centres. The students can take the exams at their own schools. "As the question papers will be delivered in electronic format to the centres, these exams do not need elaborate logistics and can be deployed and conducted in a flexible and responsive manner," the CBSE said in their suggestions. The second option suggests the exams can be held twice by the board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase. In case a student cannot write the exam due to any Covid-related issue, he/she will be provided another opportunity to sit for the exam. The first phase exams can begin around July 15 and the second phase in the first week of August, the board said. The results can be declared by September 5. "There is flexibility in this approach as the exam will be conducted in two phases, will be at own schools and will be of a shorter duration," the board said. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled, and results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme. This time, CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. For the 14,30,247 students who had registered for the Class 12 exams, the board exams were scheduled between May 4 and June 14, instead of the usual mid-February. After the deliberations, minister Nishank said, "The meeting was extremely fruitful as we received immensely valuable suggestions. I have requested the state governments to send me their detailed suggestions by May 25. I am confident we will be able to arrive at an informed, collaborative decision regarding the exams and remove the uncertainty among students’ and parents’ minds by informing them of our final decision at the earliest." "I want to reiterate that both students' and teachers' safety, security, and future are supremely important to us,'' he added. Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh chaired the over two-hour meeting. Union ministers Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar and Sanjay Dhotre were among those who attended the meeting, besides education ministers and secretaries of several states and Union territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh cops serve notice to Sambit Patra over ‘fake’ toolkit tweet||Raipur police in Chhattisgarh asked BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra to appear before it in person or through video-conferencing at 4pm on Sunday in connection with an FIR lodged against him and senior colleague Raman Singh over an alleged fake toolkit, officials said. The FIR was filed in Civil Lines police station on May 19 on the complaint of an NSUI functionary who alleged Singh, Patra and others had circulated a fake toolkit using the letterhead of the Congress. An official said not complying with the notice would attract legal action. Similar notice has been served on Singh asking him to remain present in his residence at 12:30pm on Monday for recording of statements in connection with the case, the Civil Lines police official added. Patra, who had first made the allegation that the Congress had prepared a toolkit to defame the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged pandemic mismanagement, had tweeted on Tuesday: “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of ‘Friendly Journalists’ & ‘Influencers’ than a soulful endeavour. Read yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed.” The BJP spokesperson had attached to the tweet screenshots of the alleged toolkit. Twitter on Friday marked this tweet as “manipulated media”. The microblogging site’s policy says this on manipulated media: “...We may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated.” The policy asks people not to share “deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media’s authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Depression in Bay of Bengal to intensify into cyclonic storm Yaas by Monday, says IMD||A low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal has intensified into a depression that will cross the Bengal and Odisha coasts on May 26 as a "very severe cyclonic storm", the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The depression is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm, "Yaas", by Monday, it added. "It (the depression) is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm by 24th May morning and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach Northwest Bay of Bengal near Bengal and north Odisha coasts by 26th May morning," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "It is very likely to cross north Odisha-Bengal between the Paradip and Sagar islands by evening of 26th May as a very severe cyclonic storm," it added. The state governments as well as the Centre are preparing for the cyclone that will bring winds with a speed ranging 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for a timely evacuation of those involved in offshore activities as he chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of the state and central agencies to deal with the situation arising out of Cyclone Yaas. He asked officials to work in close coordination with the states to ensure safe evacuation of people from the high-risk areas and stressed the need to ensure that the time duration of outages of the power supply and communication network is minimum and these links are restored swiftly, a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. Modi also asked the officials to ensure proper coordination and planning with the states to ensure that no disruption is caused to the treatment of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and vaccination against the viral disease. He called for involving various stakeholders such as the coastal communities and industries by directly reaching out to them, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Serum Institute dissociates itself from executive’s remarks on jab shortage||The Serum Institute has disassociated itself from its executive director's statement that the government began the Covid-19 vaccination of multiple age groups without taking into consideration the available stock, stating that this is "not the view of the company". In a letter to the Union Health Ministry on May 22, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director of Government and Regulatory Affairs at the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), clarified that the statement by its executive director Suresh Jadav at a recent event is not the view of the company, sources said. "On behalf of our CEO Adar C Poonawalla, I want to inform you that this statement is not issued on behalf of SIIPL (Serum Institute of India Private Limited) and the Company completely dissociates itself from this statement. It is reiterated that, this is not the view of the company at all. "SIIPL is committed to maximise its Covishield production and it stands shoulder to shoulder to strengthen the government's fight against Covid-19," he said in a communique. SII also clarified that Poonawalla is the only official spokesperson of the company. Amid an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country, SII executive director Suresh Jadhav on Friday alleged that the government began inoculating people from multiple age groups without taking into account the available stock of vaccines and the WHO guidelines. “Initially, 300 million people were to be administered the vaccine for which 600 million doses were required. But before we reached the target, the government opened vaccination for all above 45 years, followed by those aged 18 and above despite knowing well that so much vaccines are not available,” Jadhav had said. “That is the greatest lesson we learnt. We must take into account the availability of the product and then use it judiciously,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Modi chairs review meet ahead of Cyclone Yaas, calls for timely evacuation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for timely evacuation of those involved in off-shore activities as he chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of states and central government agencies to deal with the situation arising out of cyclone Yaas. He asked officials to work in close coordination with states to ensure safe evacuation of people from high-risk areas, and stressed the need to ensure that time duration of outages of power supply and communication networks are minimum and restored swiftly, a PMO statement said. He also asked officials to ensure proper coordination and planning with state governments to ensure that no disruption is caused to Covid-19 treatment and vaccination in hospitals. Modi called for involving various stakeholders like coastal communities and industries and directly reaching out to them and sensitising them, the PMO said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the cyclone is expected to cross Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 evening with the wind speed ranging 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal and north Odisha. The IMD has also warned of storm surge in coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha. The IMD has been issuing regular bulletins with the latest forecast to all states, the PMO noted. The Ministry of Home Affairs is reviewing the situation and is in touch with the state governments, union territories and the central agencies concerned. It has already released the first instalment of SDRF in advance to all states, and the National Disaster Response Force has pre-positioned 46 teams which are equipped with boats, tree-cutters, telecom equipment in five states and UT. In addition, 13 teams are being airlifted on Sunday for deployment and 10 teams have been kept on standby, the PMO noted. Home Minister Amit Shah, other ministers and senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Cancel class 12 CBSE exams, Priyanka Gandhi tells board||Asserting that the second wave of Covid-19 has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday reiterated her call for not holding the CBSE Class 12 exams, and slammed the government for stretching the decision on it for months. The Congress general secretary said expecting children who are already under immense pressure to sit for their exams wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch day after day is "insensitive and unfair". Her remarks came ahead of a crucial meeting called by the Ministry of Education (MOE) on Sunday to decide on pending Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19. "Students studying for the CBSE 12th grade examinations have been sharing their concerns about these exams being held during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.Their health and safety MATTERS," Gandhi said in a tweet. "Why are we not learning our lessons?" she asked. Gatherings in closed spaces promote the spread of Covid-19 and this wave has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains, she said in a series of tweets. "In any case expecting children who are already under immense pressure to sit for their exams wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch day after day is insensitive and unfair," the Congress leader said. Many of them are likely to have family members who are down with Covid-19 too and they are already dealing with enough stress, she asserted. "I fail to understand the reasoning behind holding these exams, not to mention having stretched this decision out for months," Gandhi said. "I have said this before and am repeating it again. The mental health of children is as important as their physical well being. It's about time our education system incorporates sensitivity towards children's well being and starts taking these issues seriously," she said. The high-level meeting called by the Education Ministry will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani as well as Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be among those present. Education ministers and secretaries of all states and union territories have been asked to attend the meeting. The CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The CBSE had announced that a decision on the Class 12 board exams will be taken on or after June 1. A section of students and parents have been demanding that the exams be cancelled in the wake of the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended by a week, unlocking process to start if cases continue to fall||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week, saying the process of unlocking will start from May 31 in a phased manner if the number of Covid-19 cases continued to decline. In the past 24 hours, Delhi recorded around 1,600 positive cases and the positivity rate went further down to below 2.5 percent, he said. "I consulted many people and the general opinion favoured a lockdown extension for one week. So, the Delhi government has decided that the lockdown will be extended to 5 AM on May 31," he said. Kejriwal said the lockdown was required so that the gains made after much struggle are not lost. He said he was in talks with vaccine manufacturers to ensure that the vaccine was available in Delhi, and asserted his government was ready to spend any amount for it. Delhi recorded 2,260 fresh Covid-19 cases and 182 fatalities on Saturday, with the positivity rate in the city slipping to 3.58 per cent, data shared by the health department showed. This is the lowest daily spike in cases recorded since March 31 (1,819) and the first time that the count has gone below the 3,000-mark since April 1, when 2,790 people tested positive for the viral disease. As per the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 in the national capital to 23,013. The positivity rate was 5.5 per cent on Thursday and 4.76 per cent on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar, one other arrested in murder case||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and another person were arrested on Sunday in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case that led to the death of a wrestler in New Delhi, officials said. Kumar (38) and his associate Ajay, alias Sunil, (48) were arrested from Mundka, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P S Kushwah said. The case relates to the May 4 incident at the stadium in which wrestler Sagar Rana died and two of his friends, Sonu and Amit Kumar, were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers. The Delhi Police had announced a reward of Rs one lakh for information leading to the arrest of Sushil Kumar, who had since been on the run. Another reward of Rs 50,000 was announced for Ajay Kumar's arrest. Earlier, a Delhi Court had refused to grant anticipatory bail to the Olympic medallist, saying he was prima facie the main conspirator and allegations against him were serious in nature. Non-bailable warrants were issued against him and six others. This came days after a lookout notice was issued against the wrestler. The Delhi Police filed an FIR in the case under sections 302 (murder), 308 (culpable homicide), 365 (kidnapping), 325 (causing grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It was also registered under sections 188 (Disobedience to order by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and various sections under the Arms Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||India logs 2.4 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,741 deaths||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the seventh consecutive day, with 2.4 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,65,30,132. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,99,266 with 3,741 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 28,05,399 comprising 10.57 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 88.30 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in the country surged to 2,34,25,467 while the case fatality rate stood at 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,86,07,937 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to May 22 with 21,23,782 samples tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Doctors demand Ramdev’s prosecution for comments on medical science||India’s doctors on Saturday asked the Centre to prosecute yoga televangelist Ramdev, expressing anger at what they view as the Indian government’s “silence” after his derogatory and vitriolic claim that modern medicine is killing patients. The doctors have decried Ramdev’s allegation and asked Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, himself a modern surgeon, whether he would remain a “mute spectator” to the claims made by the yoga evangelist and promoter of Patanjali products. Ramdev, in a video circulating on social media over the past two days, is seen disparaging allopathy or modern medicine. “Allopathy is a stupid science…. I’m saying an important thing. It’s possible some may oppose this,” the video shows him saying. “But lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines… more people have died from allopathic medicines than from the shortage of hospital beds or lack of oxygen.” Ramdev also claims that medicines such as remdesivir and Fabiflu, approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, have failed to treat Covid-19 patients. The Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust issued a statement on Saturday evening saying Ramdev was merely “reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message” in the video. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, has asked the government to prosecute Ramdev for his “false and baseless” claims that, the IMA says, appear intended to mislead the public and boost sales of his company’s products. “We are shocked at the silence of the government,” Jayesh Lele, the IMA secretary-general, told The Telegraph over the phone. “It’s more than two days since the video surfaced. Why has the health ministry not spoken up; why hasn’t the Niti Aayog (the government’s apex think tank) spoken up?” The IMA, in a statement on Saturday, accused Ramdev of trying to take advantage of the coronavirus epidemic and “create a sense of fear and frustration within the public” so that his company can sell its “illegal and unapproved so-called medicines”. The association said about Harsh Vardhan: “If he remains a mute spectator to this, who’s going to bell the cat?” Both the IMA and the Federation of All India Medical Associations (FAIMA), an umbrella organisation of resident doctors across the country, have sent “legal notices” to Ramdev demanding an apology and public retraction of his claims. The IMA has demanded that Ramdev be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as “untutored” statements are “a threat to the literate society of the country as well as to the poor people falling prey to him”. “The Union health minister, who himself is a practising modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and head of this (health) ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances,” the IMA said. The association said that if the minister did not act, it would be forced to resort to “democratic means of struggle to propagate the truth to the common man”. The resident doctors’ associations of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung Hospital, too, condemned Ramdev’s comments and demanded that “strictest steps” be taken against him. “His claims are false, unscrupulous, possibly to get people to buy Patanjali products,” said Suvrankar Datta, a resident doctor and FAIMA’s general secretary. “We’re concerned because he has a following among people.” The Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust on Saturday said Ramdev had “utmost regards” for doctors and support staff who have been working day and night during the pandemic. Ramdev was “reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him and various other members who were participating in the event”, it added. “What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory,” the statement signed by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust general secretary Acharya Balakrishna said. It did not say why the trust had waited till now to issue the denial. Earlier this month, Ramdev had been roasted on social media for appearing to make fun of those suffering because of the shortage of medical oxygen, suggesting while laughing that the atmosphere was full of oxygen and displaying deep-breathing techniques. Many doctors, including some IMA and FAIMA office-bearers, believe Ramdev has enjoyed government support and cite instances where the Centre has appeared lenient during his attempts to promote Patanjali’s health products through misleading claims. Earlier this year, the IMA had accused Harsh Vardhan of breaching ethics by joining an event by Ramdev, where he described a herbal cocktail developed by Patanjali as the “first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”, and of appearing to promote the product.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Odisha govt launches website for Covid test report||The Odisha government on Saturday launched a website where people who have undergone Covid-19 test can check whether they have tested positive or negative at home without having to queue up at the test centres to collect them. “After undergoing Covid-19 tests, RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen, people can know their test result — whether it is positive or negative — by just submitting their registered mobile number or SRF (specimen referral form) ID on the website,” a media release from the chief minister’s office said. Launching the website (covid19regd.odisha.gov.in/SamplCollectionDetails.aspx), chief minister Naveen Patnaik said: “Hassle-free provision of information regarding Covid test to people will not only smoothen the process but also give a huge relief to the people during these trying times.” In order to ensure privacy, an OTP (one-time password) will be sent to the registered mobile number of the person who was tested. The test report generated digitally will carry all the details of the person who was tested, including the QR code which can be used by any designate agency to verify its authenticity at any time. People can also download the report for their reference or future use. The website has been linked to statedashboard.odisha.gov.in for greater convenience. Manoj Kumar Mishra, secretary, electronics and IT, science and technology department, said: “We often see that people throng the test centres to just collect their negative reports. We have leveraged technology to remove these hassles of collecting test status by providing the report directly. The same also can be availed at the Mo Seba (My Service) kendras (centres) at GP (gram panchayat) level.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Covid: Infected groom sent to care centre from wedding venue in Ganjam district||Police on Friday picked up a groom, who had tested positive for the coronavirus, from his wedding venue in a southern Odisha village, leading to the postponement of the ceremony. The groom, Rajendra Dandia, had decided to go ahead with the ceremony despite a warning from the authorities. The incident took place in Ganjam district, around 280km from here. Sanakhemnudi block development officer (BDO) Gayatridutta Nayak told The Telegraph: “After we received information that Rajendra Dandia, 28, was going to get married despite testing positive, we rushed to the spot along with the police force. After we intervened, his family agreed to postpone the marriage. They also gave us a written undertaking in this regard.” According to the new rules in Ganjam district, the bride and the groom have to submit Covid negative reports to the local authorities before tying the knot. “Rajendra’s swab sample was taken by local health workers on May 17. We received his report on May 21 morning, the day the marriage was to take place. We asked him to postpone the marriage over the phone. When we reached his house, we found out that he had already reached the wedding venue and preparations were being made for a feast involving nearly 100 people,” the BDO said. According to the tribal tradition, the bride has to reach the groom’s house on the day of marriage. Rajani, 24, had come along with some of her relatives and was camping at the groom’s village at 10am with the marriage scheduled in the afternoon. “Rajendra, who works as a mason, might have left the village after marriage in search of greener pastures,” the BDO added. Tehsildar Srinivas Behera, who was also present at the spot, told this newspaper: “The family has agreed to postpone the marriage for at least one month. The groom was sent to a Covid care centre. After he recovers, his marriage would be solemnised as per Covid-19 protocol.” Rajendra told this newspaper from the Covid care centre: “Though I was disheartened following the postponement of the marriage, I was happy that nothing bad happened to others because of me. I don’t know how I was infected with Covid-19. I would ask my would-be-wife Rajani to get her Covid test done before the marriage. Rajendra, who studied up to Class VIII, said he would take the vaccine before marriage and would ensure Rajani does the same. Local police inspector Sabyasachi Mall said: “Had we not intervened at the right time, many more people would have been infected. People need to be aware of such threats.” Odisha has so far recorded 679,530 Covid cases. In the last 24 hours, 26 people succumbed to the virus, taking the total death toll to 2,456.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||‘Love jihad’: Gujarat governor gives assent to amendment bill curbing inter-faith unions ||The governor of BJP-ruled Gujarat has given his assent to an amendment bill that provides for prison sentences ranging from three to 10 years for fraudulent or forcible conversion through marriage, making good on the chief minister’s promise of curbing “love jihad”. The BJP and the Sangh parivar have often been inclined to call inter-faith unions “love jihad”, or a conspiracy by Muslim men to forcibly convert and indoctrinate Hindu women through marriage, and several party-ruled states have enacted or are in the process of enacting laws against the practice. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed by the Assembly on April 1, has been approved by governor Acharya Devvrat along with seven other bills, legislative and parliamentary affairs minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said in a statement. As per the amended Freedom of Religion Bill, a forcible “conversion by marriage, or by getting a person married, or by aiding a person to get married” shall invite imprisonment of three to five years and a fine of up to Rs 2 lakh. If the person is a minor, woman, Dalit or tribal, the offender may be punished with a jail term of four to seven years and a fine of not less than Rs 3 lakh. If an organisation violates the law, the person in charge can be sentenced to a minimum of three years and a maximum of 10 years in jail. During an election rally in Vadodara on February 14 — or Valentine’s Day — Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani had said his government would introduce a strict law against “love jihad”. “We are going to bring a law against love jihad in the Assembly. Such activities being done in the name of love jihad will not be tolerated.… The BJP government will introduce strict laws against love jihad in the coming days,” he had announced. Before Gujarat, BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh had enacted similar laws banning what they term fraudulent or forcible conversions through marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Covid vaccine: Pfizer, Indian govt seek to resolve tensions||Pfizer and the Indian government are seeking to resolve tensions over a demand by the US drugmaker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world’s biggest markets, two sources told Reuters. India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely used, including Britain and the US. But three other sources told Reuters that some form of legal protection is still on the table as India and Pfizer work to reach a vaccine deal. Reaching an agreement with Pfizer is critical for India’s central government, which is struggling to secure needed Covid-19 vaccine doses as recorded daily cases exceed 250,000. Indian officials said this week that 98 per cent of its population of about 1.3 billion remains susceptible to infection. India’s foreign minister plans to visit the US in the coming weeks in part to ease Pfizer’s concerns, one of the sources said. He could offer Pfizer some form of protection from lawsuits in exchange for the company providing additional assistance with distributing its shots in India, two other sources said. The Indian foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. One of the sources added that the two parties discussed the indemnity issue as recently as late this week but have not yet reached a resolution. A Pfizer spokesperson said the company is still in talks with India on a deal and they have not reached an impasse, adding that Pfizer remains hopeful about reaching an agreement. Pfizer has been consistent in its position on indemnity and is not planning to change its approach for a deal with India, one of the sources said. All of the sources declined to be identified because they are not authorised to speak to the media. India’s health ministry did not reply to Reuters requests for comment on Friday. India pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers, including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none have since sought permission from India’s drug regulator to sell their vaccine there. One source said another issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government’s insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. The source added that Pfizer cannot finalise terms of a supply agreement, including indemnity, if the vaccine is not first authorised for use in India. Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany’s BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech in collaboration with state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, have completed the small-scale safety trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||UP mahant accused of illegally selling 900-year-old land     ||A mahant in Uttar Pradesh who is believed to be close to the highest echelons of power has been accused by a long-time disciple of nefariously selling land belonging to a 900-year-old akhara to mint cash and benefit his friends and relatives. Narendra Giri, the mahant of the Niranjani Akhara in Allahabad and also the president of the All-India Akhara Parishad — an umbrella outfit of the country’s 13 akharas — has denied the allegation of illegal sale levelled by Anand Giri and claimed he had taken the consent of other senior members of the akhara. Anand Giri, a yoga guru, said in Allahabad on Saturday: “Despite my repeated requests to the senior members of the Niranjani Akhara to probe the irregularities committed by Narendra Giri, they have been ignoring it perhaps out of fear of our guru.” “I had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to order an investigation against Narendra Giri. I have furnished evidences of how he illegally sold several acres of land of the akhara in Allahabad over the past few years. I will move court if there is any further delay in initiating action against him,” said Anand Giri, who became a sadhu in 2002 under the supervision of Narendra Giri and accepted him as his spiritual father. “It is painful to say all this because according to Hindu tradition, he became my spiritual father after I took sanyas. But he is playing with the future of thousands of sadhus attached to the Niranjani Akhara,” added Anand Giri, who was expelled on May 16, a day after he first raised his voice against mahant Narendra Giri. Anand Giri alleged that Narendra Giri, believed to be close to Adityanath, had illegally sold several acres land of the akhara at Baghambari Gaddi, an ashram along the Ganga in Allahabad, to the manant’s driver, relatives and a politician. Anand Giri claimed that the trustees’ permission was not taken and no documents signed and bylaws followed before the land was sold. “Nobody has the right to sell these properties in his individual capacity. But my guru did this, believing that nobody would dare to speak against him,” said Anand Giri, who has been living in the 300-year-old Baghambari Gaddi since 2005. “My guru may hire killers to eliminate me. I need security,” he added. Besides Allahabad, the Niranjani Akhara has immovable properties in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. These plots were either bought for ashrams or donated by rich disciples. Narendra Giri claimed that “by virtue of being the head of the Niranjani Akhara, I have every right to sell land”, a claim that can be put to question. “I had taken the consent of senior members of our akhara before selling the land for some reason,” he added. “I have sold eight bighas and can explain the reason before the court.” Anand Giri sought to know who were the “senior members” Narendra Giri had consulted and asked if a trustee meeting had been held. Anand Giri said a part of the land that was sold had been earlier leased in his name when the akhara took possession because of some legal issues. “May I ask under what authority did Narendra Giri sell that land without consulting me?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Former hospital worker runs Covid clinic in UP village||A former hospital worker with no medical education is running a small unlicensed clinic, tending to patients with breathing difficulties and checking their oxygen levels as they lie on cots on the mud floor. India has been hard hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections which has overwhelmed its health system, even in big cities. In the countryside, medical facilities are dilapidated and doctors and nurses are few on the ground, meaning many clinics are run by people who don’t have training. The poor health infrastructure and lack of testing means many patients do not know if they are infected with Covid-19 or just have a cold. In Parsaul village, about 60km from the capital New Delhi, villager Ashok said people in his area were afraid to step out of their houses. He suspects that coronavirus had killed around 15 people nearby in recent days. Ashok has come with a patient who had fever to the clinic run by a 52-year-old former hospital assistant who moves from one cot to another to check IV levels. Empty intravenous drips lie piled up under a brick-walled staircase. “Patients with fever and breathing problems have increased in the last two months,” said the former assistant, who said he had been helping patients at his clinic since 1993 but did not wish to be identified as he feared a backlash from authorities. “The people from nearby six or seven villages know me personally and trust me.” Some patients wore face masks lying on cots, while others had their faces covered with clothing. Bubli, 30, visited the clinic to get treatment for fever. “No, she doesn’t have Covid, it’s just a fever,” Bubli’s husband told Reuters. “We are scared of Covid, but going out to a big hospital is more dangerous.” Total infections in India stood at 26.3 million on Saturday, the second-highest in the world after the US, while the country’s total death toll was 295,525. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Meerut killings: 34-year battle for justice  ||May 23, 2021, is the 34th anniversary of the killing of 72 Muslims in Meerut’s Maliana village, allegedly by the notorious Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) of Uttar Pradesh. The trial has been on in a Meerut sessions court for over three decades and more than 800 “dates” have been given but there’s been no justice yet. The last hearing took place four years ago. Petitioners who have moved Allahabad High Court seeking a reinvestigation and speedy trial say key documents, including the FIR, have disappeared. On April 19 this year, the high court directed the Uttar Pradesh government to respond. The Maliana massacre, however, was not an isolated event. It was part of weeks of rioting in Meerut between April and June 1987 that, according to government estimates, killed 174 people while unofficial studies and reports suggest the figure was about 350. The killings included the ghastly Hashimpura massacre of May 22 in which the PAC is alleged to have taken away 48 Muslims from Hashimpura village, shot them and thrown the bodies into a canal and a river. Six of them survived. Another 12 Muslims are said to have been killed by prison officials in the Meerut and Fatehgarh jails during this period. The run-up to the riots went like this: On April 14, 1987, while the Nauchandi fair was in full swing in Meerut, communal violence broke out. An allegedly drunken sub-inspector of police was said to have been struck by a firecracker while on duty. He opened fire, killing two Muslims. The same day, Muslims had organised a religious sermon near the Hashimpura crossing, close to the venue of a mundan event held by a Hindu family at Purwa Shaikhlal. Some Muslims objected to film songs being played on loudspeakers, which led to a quarrel. The Hindu side is said to have fired first. The Muslims then allegedly torched some Hindu shops. Twelve people, both Hindus and Muslims, were reported killed. A curfew was imposed and the situation controlled, but the incident lit the fire that burnt Meerut for weeks. On May 17, there was rioting in Kainchiyan Mohalla. By May 18, the violence had spread to Hapur Road, Pilokheri and other areas. On May 19, curfew was imposed on the city with 11 PAC companies brought in to help an estimated 60,000-strong local police. From then on, the character of the “riots” changed — from clashes between Hindu and Muslim mobs to alleged killings of Muslims by the forces. Bodies in well On May 23, eyewitnesses say, “the PAC led by senior officers including the commandant of the 44th battalion R.D. Tripathi entered Maliana about 2.30pm and killed more than 70 Muslims”. Several bodies were found in a well. The Congress administration of chief minister Vir Bahadur Singh declared 10 people dead before raising the figure to 12 and then to 15. A judicial inquiry by Justice G.L. Srivastav, a retired Allahabad High Court judge, started on August 27, 1987, and handed in its report on July 31, 1989. It was never made public. An FIR was lodged but did not accuse PAC personnel. Maliana’s Muslims say the investigation was “shoddy” and the chargesheet weak. In 34 years, the Meerut sessions court trying the case has examined only 3 of the 35 prosecution witnesses. The main FIR, the basis of the entire case against 95 alleged rioters from nearby villages, suddenly “disappeared” in 2010. The “search” for the FIR is still on. Bodies in canal A day before the Maliana killings, the PAC and the army had surrounded Hashimpura. All the residents were lined up on the main road, males aged above 50 or below 12 were segregated, and 48 among the rest were forced onto a truck. They were driven to Muradnagar and many of them were allegedly shot by the PAC. More than 20 bodies were found floating in the Ganga canal. The rest of the captives were taken to the Hindon river near the Delhi border where they were allegedly shot and dumped into the water. Altogether, 42 died. On May 29, the state government announced it would suspend Tripathi, who had also faced allegations during the 1982 Meerut riots. But Tripathi was never actually suspended and continued to receive promotions till his retirement. A CBI inquiry ordered by Rajiv Gandhi’s central government submitted a report that was never made officially public. A crime branch-CID probe headed by then state police chief Jangi Singh, in its report, recommended prosecuting 37 PAC personnel and police officers. The state government sanctioned the prosecution of 19, of whom 3 died during the trial. A chargesheet was filed in 1996 but none of the accused appeared before the Ghaziabad court until 2000, when 16 accused PAC men surrendered, got bail, and returned to resume their service. The Supreme Court transferred the case to Delhi in 2002 on a plea from the victims’ families but hearings couldn’t begin till November 2004 because the Uttar Pradesh government had not appointed a public prosecutor for the case. On March 21, 2015, the additional sessions judge held the evidence was insufficient and acquitted all the accused. Eventually, on October 31, 2018, Delhi High Court overturned the trial court order and convicted the 16 PAC personnel, sentencing them to life terms. Jail killings More than 2,500 people appear to have been arrested during the 1987 Meerut riots. Reports and records of June 3, 1987, suggest that five accused were killed in Meerut jail and seven in Fatehgarh jail. All of them were Muslims. A magisterial inquiry into the Fatehgarh killings said that six inmates had died of injuries, some of them suffered in “scuffles that took place inside the jail”. According to reports, several jail staff were suspended and departmental proceedings launched against the chief head warder, a deputy jailor and the deputy superintendent of the prison. Three murder cases relating to these six deaths were registered but the FIRs contained no names despite certain officials being indicted by the inquiry. So, no prosecution was ever launched in these 34 years. Independently, the state government ordered an administrative inquiry into the riots that took place between May 18 and 22, but left out Maliana and the killings in Meerut and Fatehgarh jails. The report was not placed before the legislature or the public. Fresh plea Now a public interest plea has been filed before Allahabad High Court by this writer, former Uttar Pradesh director-general of police Vibhuti Narain Rai, a man named Ismail who lost 11 family members at Maliana, and a lawyer, M.A. Rashid, who appeared in the Maliana case in the Meerut trial court. The plea has sought a reinvestigation, fair and speedy trial, and adequate compensation to the families of the Maliana victims. The petitioners have accused police and PAC personnel of intimidating victims and witnesses. The writer is a journalist who writes in Hindi, Urdu and English and worked 14 years with BBC World Service. He covered the Meerut riots of 1987 and was an eyewitness to many incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Covid: Family members may receive jab at workplace vaccination centres ||Family members may receive Covid-19 inoculations at workplace vaccination centres through tie-ups with private hospitals, the Union health ministry has said, revising an April 6 policy that had kept family members out. The health ministry, in an advisory sent to all states on Friday, said the family members and dependants of workers in industrial or workplace vaccination centres may also be inoculated with vaccines procured by private hospitals. The decision follows several queries received by the ministry seeking vaccines for workers’ family members and is in line with the Centre’s efforts to accelerate the pace of vaccinations, the ministry said. India has administered more than 193 million doses since the start of the vaccination campaign in January, but only about 45 million (less than 5 per cent) of the estimated 950 million beneficiaries have received two doses needed for full protection. The ministry had introduced workplace inoculations from April 11, saying vaccination teams could visit workplaces and vaccinate up to 100 beneficiaries during each session, with each workplace tagged to the nearest government or private vaccination centre. The Centre is procuring and supplying vaccine doses to all states to inoculate adults 45 years or older and has allowed states to vaccinate people between 18 and 45 years by procuring vaccines on their own. Vaccine shortages nationwide, however, have slowed the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Covid crisis: Delhi to stop vaccinating people in 18-44 age group||Delhi will have to stop vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group from Sunday because of unavailability of doses, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said, apprehending that the situation is unlikely to improve anytime soon. In a webcast on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “Starting tomorrow, all the centres for vaccinating the youth will shut down. I am extremely saddened by the fact that we have to close down the centres for vaccinating the youth due to the non-availability of vaccines. We have told the central government in writing; we have asked for more vaccines from them.” The chief minister added: “Delhi needs 80 lakh vaccine doses every month. We received only 16 lakh vaccines in May and the central government has reduced the quota for Delhi for June. The letter we have received from the central government mentions that we will be given only 8 lakh vaccines in June…. At this pace, if only 8 lakh vaccines are provided every month, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all adults in Delhi.” Kejriwal stressed on a four-point prescription for the Centre, the first two of which he wants done within 24 hours. “Firstly, Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covaxin is ready to give its formula to other companies. There are several vaccine-making companies in the country. The central government should immediately invite all those companies and give them an order, not request but order them that all those companies should start rapidly making vaccines. “My second suggestion is that immediate permission should be given for the use of all foreign vaccines in India.” The purchases should be done by the Centre for the whole country as it has greater bargaining power, the AAP leader said. The chief minister added: “The third solution is that it has been in the news that many countries have accumulated more vaccines than what they need. They have stored vaccines more than their populations. The government of India should request them to give those vaccines to our country. “The fourth suggestion is that all foreign vaccine manufactures should be immediately permitted to produce vaccines in India…. In the country, if a father, a son, a brother, a mother, or a sister faces such a complex situation where they have to choose whether they themselves get vaccinated or leave it for the youth of the family, then there can be nothing more saddening than this.” More than 11,000 deaths — close to half of Delhi’s total toll from the pandemic — have been reported since April. Kejriwal pointed to the second wave’s downward trajectory in Delhi. “In the past 24 hours, only 2,200 cases have been detected in Delhi. The infection rate has also declined in the past 24 hours and has come down to only 3.5 per cent,” the chief minister said. The infection rate should ideally be below 5 per cent. Preparations for a possible third wave of the pandemic have begun with the focus being on children and creating 50,000 more oxygen beds, including 10,000 ICU beds. Economic activities and food relief for daily wagers, however, remain at the bare minimum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Centre asks social media firms to remove content that refers to ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus||The information technology (IT) ministry has written to all social media companies asking them to take down any content that refers to an “Indian variant” of the coronavirus, according to a letter issued on Friday that was seen by Reuters. The World Health Organisation said on May 11 that the coronavirus variant B.1.617, first identified in India last year, was being classified as a variant of global concern. The Indian government a day later issued a statement saying media reports using the term “Indian variant” were without any basis, saying the WHO had classified the variant as just B.1.617. In a letter to social media companies on Friday, the IT ministry asked the companies to “remove all the content” that names or implies “Indian variant” of the coronavirus. “This is completely FALSE. There is no such variant of Covid-19 scientifically cited as such by the World Health Organisation (WHO). WHO has not associated the term ‘Indian variant’ with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports,” stated the letter, which is not public. A senior Indian government source told Reuters the notice was issued to send a message “loud and clear” that such mentions of “Indian variant” spread miscommunication and hurt the country’s image. The IT ministry could not be reached for comment. Around the world, coronavirus variants have generically been referred to by doctors and health experts on the basis of where they are identified. This includes South Africa, Brazil and UK or Kent variants. A social media executive said it would be difficult to take down all content using the word as there would be hundreds of thousands of such posts, adding that “such a move would lead to keyword-based censorship going forward”. The Indian government is facing increased criticism over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi being blamed for not adequately planning for the ongoing second wave of coronavirus infections. India has the second-highest tally of Covid-19 cases in the world and has been reporting around 250,000 infections and 4,000 deaths daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi flags govt’s mismanagement of epidemic and economy||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday flagged the government’s mismanagement of the epidemic and the economy that has pushed India close to the bottom of Asia’s growth and Covid charts, and regretted that the Prime Minister’s response had been to shed tears. Posting a widely shared chart on social media that shows India to have been a laggard in terms of Covid deaths per million population and economic growth, Rahul tweeted: “No Vaccines. Lowest GDP. Highest Covid deaths... the Government of India response? PMCries.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Friday appeared to choke on his tears while talking about the Covid deaths. While India’s economy was hit the hardest in the last financial year, with GDP growth dipping to minus 24, the latest chart puts India’s growth at minus 8 per cent, with the Philippines the lone Asian country to have done worse at minus 8.3 per cent. Bangladesh tops the table at 3.8 per cent, and Myanmar, China, Vietnam, Bhutan and Pakistan too have registered positive growth. India, Indonesia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Thailand and Philippines are in negative territory. In terms of Covid deaths per million population, India has been the worst at 212 deaths, followed by Nepal at 204 and the Philippines and Indonesia at 178. Pakistan has recorded 89 deaths per million, and China has recorded just 3 per million. India lags many countries also in terms of vaccinating its citizens, despite being the world’s biggest manufacturer of vaccines and despite having developed two Covid vaccines in good enough time. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said through a series of tweets: “Both International Monetary Fund and World Health Organisation have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination. The claim of the Union Health Minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data. So far, it is not.” He added: “We need data on capacity of domestic producers, orders placed vaccine-wise, import contracts concluded, agreed schedule of delivery etc. Nothing has been disclosed so far.” A vaccine shortage has forced many vaccination centres to close just when India is reeling under the Covid second wave. “The final warning to the Government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. The Modi Government cannot say ‘we did not anticipate these consequences’. The Government has been duly forewarned,” Chidambaram said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi too wrote to Modi seeking free treatment for those infected by the black fungus. “The Government of India has just asked states to declare mucormycosis as an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act. This means that there must be (1) adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat it; and (2) cost-free patient care for those in need of treatment,” she wrote. “I understand that liposomal amphotericin B is absolutely essential for the treatment of mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market. Further, the illness is not covered in Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance products. “I would request you to kindly take immediate action on this matter to bring relief to the large number of patients being afflicted by mucormycosis.” Rahul too tweeted about the black fungus, saying: “Because of Modi system’s failure, only India is grappling with black fungus along with Corona. Apart from scarcity of vaccines, medicine for this disease is also not available. To deal with it, the Prime Minister might be preparing to announce a thali-taali programme.” His last comment was a dig at Modi’s appeal last year to citizens to clap and bang plates to keep the virus at bay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
