24-05-2021||India||Vaccination key to control pandemic but govt doesn't seem to care, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that even though vaccination is the key to controlling the pandemic the government does not seem to care as he claimed reduction in daily inoculation in the country. He shared a graph showing the decline in the number of vaccine doses administered during April and May (till 20th) and pointed out that the average number of vaccination per day has fallen below the daily production. "Vaccination is the key to controlling the pandemic but GOI doesn't seem to care," he said on Twitter while sharing a graph. The graph showed that the total vaccinations in April were 8.98 crore, which have fallen to 3.69 crore in May (till 20th). It also claimed that while average vaccination per day in April was 29.95 lakh against the total daily production of 26.66 lakh doses, it has fallen to 18.44 lakh per day vaccination against a production of 25.80 lakh doses in May this year. The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccine policy and have termed it as discriminatory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt's gift to farmers ahead of Kharif season||On the occasion of the martyrdom day of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday transferred Rs.1500 crore as input subsidy directly into the bank accounts of 22 lakh farmers in the state to help them prepare for the upcoming Kharif season. The amount has been released as the first installment of the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana 2021. Under this scheme, a total of Rs 5,597 crore will be given to the farmers in four installments as input subsidy. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Dr. Charan Das Mahant and all the members of the cabinet paid tribute to Ex-Prime Minister late Shri Rajiv Gandhi during the programme. The program started with the state song, after which Bhupesh Baghel administered the oath of anti-terrorism day to the people present. To mark the occasion, Bhupesh Baghel also transferred Rs 7.17 crore to 72,000 villagers, cattle rearers of the state as payment for the dung procured in Gauthans between March 15 and May 15, under Godhan Nyaya Yojana. The CM also launched the super compost fertilizer manufactured in gauthans for sale to the farmers and inaugurated the beautification work of the statue site at Rajiv Gandhi Chowk in Raipur. MLAs from all the districts including MP Mr. PL Punia, District Panchayat President and other public representatives also participated in this program virtually. For this programme that marked the transfer of funds under Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana and Godhan Nyaya Yojana, MP Mrs. Sonia Gandhi had sent a message for the people of Chhattisgarh commending the leadership of Baghel and praising the state government’s efforts for economic growth and betterment of farmers as well as common people. "The Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojana is an appreciable step towards welfare of farmers. I congratulate the govt for taking this step. Rajiv Gandhi had always envisioned the empowerment of farmers, labourers, poor and backward people," she said. Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel said, "The input subsidy provided to the farmers under Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojana has significantly improved the agriculture and farming status in the state. Our government has expanded the scope of the scheme from kharif season 2021, including various kharif crops along with paddy." The CM also gave detailed information about the provisions of Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojana 2021 and said that the certain amount to be paid to the landless labourers every year has been provisioned in the budget of 2021-22. Covid measures He also spoke about the measures being taken by Chhattisgarh government for Covid prevention, treatment and vaccination, as well as for the support and relief of COVID affected people during this second wave. The CM also informed about the COVID vaccination status, free distribution of two months ration to people in need, free education for children in crisis due to COVID, and Mahtari Dulaar Yojana. Incentives Baghel said that other than waiving off the agricultural loans of farmers, the state has distributed additional incentives worth Rs 11 thousand crore in last two years. The programme was also addressed by Assembly Speaker Dr Charan Das Mahant and MP PL Puniya AGri. Assembly Speaker Charan Das Mahant and MP PL Punia said that the Chhattisgarh government has fulfilled its pro-people policies with commitment even in the face of adverse situation. At the outset of the program, Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources said in his welcome address that the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana is an important scheme for the farmers of Chhattisgarh state. He informed about the procurement of vermi compost in the state under Godhan Nyaya Yojana, and also talked about the production of super compost manure and other livelihood activities conducted by women self-help groups. Choubey further said that apart from the release of Rs 7.17 crore to the dung vendor farmers, a dividend amount of over Rs 3 crore is being released to the Self Help Groups and Gauthan Committees. So far, Rs 95 crore has been provided to the cow dung vendors under Godhan Nyaya Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||States set to receive over 48 lakh jabs in the next 3 days: Centre||More than 1.80 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and they will receive over 48 lakh doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 21.80 crore vaccine doses to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on average up to May 23, including wastages is 20,00,08,875 doses the ministry said. "More than 1.80 crore COVID vaccine doses (1,80,43,015) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 48 lakh (48,00,650) vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," it stated. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre been supporting the states and UTs by providing them COVID vaccines free of cost. In addition, it has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||Covid lockdown extended till June 1 in Bihar||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar on Monday extended till June 01 the COVID-induced lockdown that has been in force for nearly a month and was to be effective till Tuesday. An announcement to this effect was made by the Chief Minister on his official twitter handle. "The lockdown has had a good impact and there has been a decline in the corona contagion. Hence, a decision has been taken to continue with the lockdown till June 01", Kumar tweeted after chairing a high level meeting convened to review the pandemic situation in the state, which was attended by members of his cabinet and top officials. Lockdown was first clamped with effect from May 5, till May 10, after the state was rattled by an unprecedented spurt in COVID 19 cases and fatalities. It was subsequently extended till May 25. The restrictions include suspension of almost all business activities. Shops dealing in essential items have been allowed to do business for four hours FROM 6 am to 10 am in the morning. Strict measures are being taken, including police crackdown, to prevent people from flouting the rules and those found to be flagrantly violating these are being booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Act. Besides, ministers have been rebuked while an official notification for touring their constituencies to supervise development works and told that such acts could have a detrimental effect on adherence to the restrictions by common people. More than four lakh people have been infected and over 2,000 have lost their lives since April, when the devastating second wave hit the state. Bihar has lost many of its luminaries from all walks of life during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||Railway set to suspend Sushil Kumar arrested in murder case||The Northern Railway is set to suspend wrestler Sushil Kumar following his arrest by the Delhi Police in a murder case, a spokesperson said on Monday. A senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, Olympic medallist Kumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level. His deputation was extended in 2020 and Kumar had applied for an extension for 2021 as well which had been rejected by the Delhi government and he was sent back to his parent cadre -- Northern Railway -- officials said. On the run for nearly three weeks, Kumar was arrested a day ago for his alleged involvement in the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium, along with co-accused Ajay from outer Delhi's Mundka area. "The Railway Board has received a report on the case on Sunday from the Delhi government. He has FIRs registered against him and he will be suspended," Northern Railway CPRO Deepak Kumar told PTI. Officials said that an official order suspending the wrestler will be issued in a couple of days. Senior officials said that if a government servant is found involved in grievous crimes, he or she is usually suspended till the case is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Vaccination halted at all 400 sites for 18-44 age group in Delhi, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell coronavirus vaccines directly to the national capital and have said that they will only talk to the Centre. In an online briefing, Sisodia said all the 400 vaccination sites for the 18-44 age group have been closed in Delhi after the vaccine stock was over, while the centres administering Covaxin to the 45+ age group, healthcare workers and frontline workers too have been shut due to unavailability of jabs. Stressing that vaccination is the need of the hour to protect people against the coronavirus, Sisodia said they have spoken to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson for vaccines. "Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell us directly saying they are talking to the Centre. The Centre has not approved Pfizer and Moderna whereas the world over they have been approved and bought by countries," he said. Sisodia said some countries bought vaccines in advance while these were in trial stage but India did not take any step in that direction. "We refused approval to Sputnik in 2020 and approved it only last month. or us it's just a game...," he said. The deputy chief minister urged the Centre to approve Pfizer and Moderna on war footing. "I urge the Centre not to make this vaccination programme a joke. Approve Pfizer and Moderna on war footing, rather than asking states to approach these companies. It should not happen that by the time we get vaccines, the time comes that even the antibodies of those who have been vaccinated are finished and they will again require vaccination," he said. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also urged the Centre to procure Pfizer and Moderna vaccines and distribute them to states. On Sunday, a senior Punjab official said the US-based COVID-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna had refused to send vaccines directly to the state government stating that it only deals with the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Narada: CBI moves SC against house arrest of four leaders||The CBI has moved the Supreme Court challenging a Calcutta High Court order allowing house arrest of four leaders, including three from the TMC, in the Narada bribery case. The high court had on May 21 ordered shifting of two West Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former Calcutta mayor to house arrest from jail. A division bench differed on the issue of recalling the stay on bail to the four accused. It decided to refer the matter to a larger bench of five judges and the hearing is underway. While Justice Arijeet Banerjee supported interim bail, the acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal opposed it. The bench made it clear the house arrest was given considering the Covid pandemic. While pronouncing the order, the bench had turned down CBI’s plea for a stay of the order and added the arrestees can access files and meet officials, only through video conferencing. The CBI has challenged the order of house arrest and reference of the matter to a larger bench, a law officer said. West Bengal Transport Minister Firhad Hakim, Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI last Monday morning in connection with the Narada sting tape case that is being investigated by the agency on a 2017 order of the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||India's Covid toll crosses grim milestone of 3 lakh as 4,454 patients succumb to the virus||Fresh Covid-19 infections in India dipped to 2,22,315, the lowest in round 38 days, pushing the total tally of coronavirus cases to 2,67,52,447, while the death toll crossed the 3-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,03,720 with 4,454 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had registered 2,17,353 new infections on April 16. The active cases have further reduced to 27,20,716 comprising 10.17 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 88.69 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,37,28,011, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 33,05,36,064 samples have been tested up to May 23 with 19,28,127 samples being tested on Sunday. The 4,454 new fatalities include 1,320 from Maharashtra, 624 from Karnataka, 422 from Tamil Nadu, 231 from Uttar Pradesh, 192 from Punjab, 189 from Delhi, 188 from Kerala, 156 from West Bengal, 107 from Bihar, and 104 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,03,720 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 88,620 from Maharashtra, 25,282 from Karnataka, 23,202 from Delhi, 20,468 from Tamil Nadu, 19,209 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,364 from West Bengal, 13,281 from Punjab and 12,586 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid second wave bares existing deficiencies in rural healthcare||Jahangir Alam, a rice farmer at Semri village in Bihar’s West Champaran district, did his best to avoid a government hospital bed even when he started gasping for breath a week after falling sick. He had earlier sought treatment from a private doctor in Narkatiaganj, but when his illness worsened his family called Matiur Rahman, a team member with Gram Vaani, an audio-driven rural social media platform. Rahman found out that the Narkatiaganj sub-divisional hospital had unoccupied oxygen beds and asked the family to rush Alam there. It was the morning of May 9 and Alam’s breathing had become increasingly difficult since the previous evening. But Alam and his family, wary of the facilities at government hospitals, hired a private ambulance to ride about 100km to Motihari in East Champaran to seek admission to private hospitals. Two hospitals had no beds. A third accepted him but Alam died there a day later. “They spent too much time looking for private hospitals,” Rahman told The Telegraph. “Many patients here don’t want to go to government hospitals; many patients don’t take tests because they’re afraid they would be forcibly sent to a government hospital if they’re found positive.” Alam had neither sought nor was he recommended a Covid-19 test before admission, but a doctor who viewed a CT scan of his lungs after admission said its features were “suggestive of Covid-19 infection”. Without a lab-confirmed positive test, doctors say, Alam’s death will likely go uncounted as Covid-19 among many others in rural areas where limited testing has meant many patients remain undiagnosed. Covid-19 had penetrated rural areas last year, but health experts say the second wave has hit harder and magnified the longstanding deficiencies in rural healthcare services against the backdrop of poverty and hunger. The Union health ministry’s rural health statistics show that over 2,900 posts of doctors in district hospitals were vacant in just five states in March 2020, with shortfalls of 676 in Bihar, 637 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,106 in Bengal, 377 in Maharashtra and 171 in Punjab. Over 2,600 (50 per cent) of India’s 5,183 community health centres (CHCs) – which are expected to serve as the first-tier hospitals with specialists, X-ray machines, and operation theatres for rural areas – had no functional X-ray machines in March 2020. In some states, the CHCs did not even have regular supplies of essential medicines – only 29 of Bihar’s 57 CHCs, 211 of Gujarat’s 348 CHCs, and 628 of Uttar Pradesh’s 711 CHCs had regular supplies of medicines. “In such circumstances, there’s a tendency among doctors to not take risks and refer patients to a higher-level district hospital,” said Yogesh Jain, a senior physician and founder-member of Jan Swasthya Sahyog (People’s Health Support), an organisation that provides healthcare to rural communities in Chhattisgarh. The treatment guidelines for moderate Covid-19 require blood biochemistry tests and medications such as steroids and anti-coagulants. “Even if there is oxygen supply, many rural healthcare centres would lack facilities for those blood tests,” Jain said. “And doctors would ask: why offer only piecemeal treatment?” Anecdotal accounts from patients and healthcare workers and “user-generated” audio reports from Gram Vaani suggest that rural communities have also faced large clusters of infections, oxygen shortages, non-responsive ambulance helplines, and black marketeering in medicines. Bijaylaxmi Rautaray, secretary, Sahayog, a non-government health organisation in Odisha, cited the example of a Covid-19 patient who received medicines from a CHC in Erasama in Jagatsinghpur district but no instructions on how to use them. “And in some areas, the health workers expected to monitor patients under home isolation have no access to oximeters. They receive only a pair of gloves,” she said. In Jamalpur near Munger, Bihar, a patient whose oxygen saturation levels had fallen to between 80 and 85 had to wait over a week without oxygen, according to an audio report uploaded by Gram Vaani. The report features an acquaintance complaining that neither was oxygen available nor doctors for consultation. In Manesar, Haryana, a resident said the helplines for Covid-19 patients were not functional. In Samastipur, Bihar, a resident complained that chemist shops in the Pipraghat area were selling for Rs 300 medicines that cost Rs 100. “Some doctors in rural communities seem to have fled as the cases increased, fearing being infected or getting beaten up,” said Oommen John, a physician with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. He said such information about rural areas was trickling in from clinicians still there. “We know that clusters of infections and deaths have remained undocumented,” John said. In a cluster of three villages near Kanchanpur in Jharkhand’s Hazaribagh district, for instance, Faiz Anwar, a former programme officer assisting TB control efforts in the district, has learnt from local residents that 27 people with Covid-19 symptoms died over the past three weeks. The health ministry had last week released guidelines for Covid-19 care in rural settings, recommending 30-bed care centres and 30-bed hospitals with required medical staff, medications, oxygen and other infrastructure. Public health experts have welcomed the content but some have expressed concern that the guidelines don’t take into account the existing shortages of staff and equipment. During the surge itself, Jain said, it might be useful to concentrate staff and healthcare resources at district hospitals or other hospitals with strong infrastructure, and make available an ambulance network to transport patients to such hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid: Ramdev withdraws offensive remarks on allopathic medicine||Yoga televangelist Ramdev on Sunday withdrew his derogatory remarks against allopathic medicine after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan wrote to him seeking a retraction and saying his “extremely unfortunate” comments had disrespected “corona warriors” and could demoralise healthcare workers. “Hon’ble Minister, I have received your letter. I withdraw my statement, putting to rest the controversy over various medical practices,” Ramdev tweeted in Hindi from his personal Twitter handle. Doctors’ bodies had on Saturday asked the government to prosecute Ramdev after a video purportedly showed him dubbing allopathy a “stupid science” that had killed “lakhs of people” and was ineffective against Covid. Vardhan, himself a modern surgeon, wrote a letter to Ramdev that said: “Through your statement you not only disrespected corona warriors but also deeply hurt the sentiments of countrymen. Your statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken our fight against Covid-19.” Ramdev’s Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust had on Saturday evening claimed Ramdev was merely “reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message” in the video and that he had the “utmost regards” for doctors and support staff battling the epidemic. “When allopathic doctors saved lives of crores during Covid, your comments that allopathy is responsible for the death of lakhs is extremely unfortunate,” Vardhan wrote. “You also are aware that countless healthcare workers lost their lives in their fight against Covid. You calling allopathy treatment a ‘drama’, useless and ‘diwaliya’ (causing bankruptcy) is unfortunate.” Vardhan said that if the Covid death rate was 1.13 per cent and the recovery rate more than 88 per cent, it was because of the contribution of allopathy and its practitioners. “Even Covid-19 vaccine which has proved to be an effective tool in our fight against the infection has been given by allopathy,” he said. Vardhan said the explanation given by Ramdev was not enough. “In your explanation, you just said that your sentiment was not to hurt modern science and doctors. I don’t think your explanation was enough,” he said. Vardhan, who had earlier this year been criticised for attending the launch of the herbal product Coronil that Patanjali had touted as an anti-Covid medication, however, adopted a somewhat placatory tone towards a man considered close to the Narendra Modi government. “Baba Ramdev, you are a public figure and your statement holds value. I think that you should give statements on any issue keeping in view the time and circumstances,” he wrote. “I hope you will think about it seriously and in view of the sentiments of corona warriors from across the world you will withdraw your statement.” The Indian Medical Association, Federation of All India Medical Associations and the Resident Doctors Associations of AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital had on Saturday sought action against Ramdev. The IMA said it had sent a legal notice to Ramdev seeking a “written apology” and “recall of statements” by him. In the video, Ramdev purportedly says medicines such as remdesivir, Fabiflu and other drugs approved by the Drugs Controller General of India have failed to treat Covid-19 patients, and that “lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines”. The Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust has said “the truncated version of the video is totally out of context of what is sought to be conveyed by Swami jee”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre keen on conducting CBSE Class XII exams; final decision on June 1||The Centre on Sunday indicated to the states that it was keen on the CBSE Class XII exams being conducted sometime soon, to be followed by the NEET and the JEE Main and Advanced. At the videoconference meeting, several states expressed reservations about the CBSE Class XII exams being held amid the surging epidemic and suggested that the candidates be evaluated on the basis of past exam scores and internal assessment. The states generally favoured the conduct of the NEET and the JEEs, the all-India medical and engineering entrance tests that are one-day affairs. But several states suggested that the examinees be vaccinated first even if they are below 18, the lower age cut-off for the current vaccination policy, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told reporters. The states, whose support is important since all these exams are to be held across India, have to state their stand in writing by May 25. Under the Disaster Management Act, the Centre can force the states to comply, anyway, sources said. The final decision on the CBSE Class XII exams is expected on June 1. If the decision is to hold the exams and the states agree, it’s expected that the states would also go ahead with their own Class XII board exams. Defence minister Rajnath Singh chaired the meeting, which discussed two possible ways of holding the Class XII exams, which most state boards have not conducted because of the second wave of Covid. Sisodia told reporters the two options are: Option I: The exams will be held in 20 or so main subjects among the about 200 offered by most school boards. If any of a student’s chosen subjects falls outside the group of 20, the student would be given a score in this subject on the basis of his or her performance in the other subjects. The exams will be held as usual in selected centres. Option II: The exams will have objective-type questions and the duration will be 90 minutes instead of the regular three hours per paper. The students will not sit more than five papers, and will have the option of appearing in only four. Students will take the exams in their own schools and be evaluated by their own schoolteachers. Sisodia said he opposed Class XII exams in any manner, citing the rampaging epidemic and speculation about a third wave that may particularly infect children. “We do not favour exams at the cost of the students’ health. We favour assessment on the basis of historical references (past exams),” he said. Sisodia said students unhappy with this arrangement “may take the test at a later date when it can be held”. “We need to think from the perspective of parents,” he added, implying that parents would be likely to oppose the conduct of Class XII exams now. Sources said Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were among the states opposed to allowing Class XII exams while BJP-ruled Karnataka unconditionally supported the Centre’s proposal. Congress-ruled Rajasthan signalled acceptance of Class XII exams only if all the candidates were vaccinated and the situation improved, the last rider threatening to make the timetable rather indefinite. Sisodia said Delhi and several other states demanded vaccination of the examinees before the NEET and JEEs. He said about 95 per cent of Class XII students (who make up the bulk of the JEE and NEET candidates) are aged 17-and-a-half, and that health experts’ opinion should be taken to find out whether the Indian vaccines can be administered to them. Else, he suggested, the government might need to import vaccines from foreign countries that have developed jabs for children. The CBSE has cancelled the Class X board exams and allowed schools to evaluate students on the basis of internal assessment and previous exams. The board has said it would conduct optional Class X exams once the situation improves so that willing students can take them to better their performance. At the meeting, Rajnath and education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal underlined the “importance of the Class XII board exams and the all-India entrance exams in shaping the future and defining the careers of students”, a government media release said. It said Rajnath “reiterated that the priority of the government is to conduct all the examinations in a safe and secure environment”. The country has about 1.5 crore Class XII students. Women and child development minister Smriti Irani and environment minister Prakash Javadekar attended the meeting, as did the chief ministers of Jharkhand and Goa, the deputy chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, state education ministers and chairpersons of examination boards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid: Paediatricians rule out third wave effect on children||Any fresh surge in the Covid-19 epidemic is “highly unlikely” to predominantly or severely affect children, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics has asserted to try and allay what doctors say are baseless fears circulating on social media about a third wave hitting children hard. The IAP, a body representing over 32,000 paediatricians across the country, said that while children appear as susceptible as adults and the elderly to develop the coronavirus infection, 90 per cent of infections in children are mild or without symptoms. The public advisory from the IAP’s Covid-19 committee comes amid what paediatricians say are unsubstantiated suggestions that a third wave of the epidemic is likely to affect children harder than the first and second waves did. “We wanted to refute wrong messages and misconceptions going around,” Bakul Jayant Parekh, a Mumbai-based paediatrician and former president of the IAP, told The Telegraph. “This advisory represents the IAP’s viewpoint based on global scientific evidence.” The IAP said that while severe disease occurred primarily in the elderly and in individuals with underlying chronic illnesses during the first wave, a larger proportion of people aged 30 to 45 had developed severe disease during the ongoing second wave. Clinical data collected during India’s first and second waves show that Covid-19 infections in children are less likely to require admission to intensive care units. The IAP said there was “no evidence” to suggest that most children with Covid-19 would develop severe disease in the third wave. Paediatricians and public health experts speculate that the emergence of new and more infectious coronavirus variants such as the one named B.1.617 in the second wave have led to a spurt in rumour-mongering. Medical researchers, however, say there is no data yet to suggest that the variants are causing severe disease. “But there is so much speculation on social media and panic among parents,” Dhanya Dharmapalan, a Mumbai-based paediatrician and member of the IAP’s Covid-19 committee, told The Telegraph. “We see more children get infected during this (second) wave, but this is likely because there are more infections overall. As the numbers of overall infections grew, so did the number of (infected) children.” The IAP said only a small percentage of infected children were likely to develop moderate or severe disease. “If there is a massive increase in the overall numbers of infected individuals, a larger number of children with moderate or severe disease may be seen,” it said. The academy said that besides looking out for the infection, patients should watch out for mental health issues among children. They should stay vigilant about child abuse, limit screen time and prepare the children for safe school reopening. India’s second wave of Covid, which began in February-March after the epidemic shrank steadily following the first wave’s peak in mid-September, has stirred speculation about a possible third wave later this year, particularly because vast sections of India’s population are expected to remain unvaccinated. Public health specialists have asserted that it is too early to predict whether a third wave would occur or how large the epidemic would grow. The IAP has echoed that view in its advisory: “There is a possibility of a third wave, but it is difficult to predict its timing and severity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Kerala: Oommen Chandy induces generation change in Congress||The Congress in Kerala has needed prodding from a 77-year-old to usher in a generation change in its leadership. No, it’s not an initiative from Congress veteran Oommen Chandy, who had himself revolted against the old guard 50-odd years ago, that has brought in a younger face as the party’s new leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. It’s none other than Marxist chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who has, by inducting 20 new faces into his cabinet, forced the Congress to appoint 56-year-old V.D. Satheesan as its leader in the House, replacing the veteran Ramesh Chennithala. Vijayan was among the first to congratulate Satheesan. “His performance in the Assembly has been exemplary. Hoping that he will be an excellent leader of the Opposition,” he said at a news conference. The Congress high command had to overcome stiff resistance from the “oldies” who had temporarily buried their differences and ganged up against any change in the leadership. Party insiders claim it was Rahul Gandhi who had insisted on an immediate leadership change after the drubbing in the Assembly elections. Rahul, who represents Kerala’s Wayanad constituency in the Lok Sabha, did not come forward to own responsibility for his party’s Assembly poll defeat. However, when the Congress had won 17 of the state’s 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election, it was described as a victory for Rahul. Although Satheesan’s elevation alone will not solve the state Congress’s organisational problems, it may herald the end of factionalism within the unit and free it from the clutches of the A.K. Antony-Chandy-Chennithala nexus that has been the bane of the Congress in Kerala. The party is yet to decide whether to replace the current state president, Mullappally Ramachandran, who has made it clear he will not quit on his own and that it’s the collective leadership that should take “ownership” of the election defeat. But indications are that a change is not too far away. Despite being a known member of the group headed by Chennithala, Satheesan had dared take a stand of his own on controversial issues, especially communalism and environment. It will be interesting to see how Satheesan interacts with party seniors sitting with him in the Assembly, not to speak of those on the treasury benches fresh from their historic win. The new Assembly is scheduled to meet on Monday. Chennithala is reported to be “very hurt” by the decision to replace him. Apparently, the representatives of the high command who had sought opinion from the MLAs individually had not bothered to “give even a hint” to him about the impending change. Chennithala’s grouse is justifiable, in a way. He had been quite effective as leader of the Opposition, especially in the last two years of the previous government. The government was forced to backtrack on at least half-a-dozen controversial decisions following revelations by Chennithala. Vijayan and his cohorts had in their desperation resorted to personal attacks on Chennithala, even questioning his “mental balance”. That Chennithala could not muster enough support for his initiatives from within his own party is something Satheesan needs to take note of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Covid test fear keeps people off  shelters in Odisha||Coastal Odisha appears more fearful of the coronavirus than known enemy cyclone, with many residents refusing to shift to government shelters ahead of Cyclone Yaas for fear of catching the infection. A bemused administration, its plans to complete evacuation of vulnerable areas by May 25 morning now under threat, is emphasising its efforts to maintain physical distancing at the shelters and equip the buildings with medical teams, isolation wards and sanitisers. It has also enlisted Anganwadi workers, accredited social health activists (Asha workers), and members of panchayats and self-help groups to persuade those reluctant to move to the cyclone shelters. But Parshuram Pradhan, 56, a resident of Basta in coastal Balasore district, said the protracted threat of the virus made it a bigger danger than the short-lived rampage of a cyclone. “We have experienced several cyclones, including Amphan (last year), and survived all of them. If we move to the cyclone centres and get infected, the epidemic situation will deteriorate further after the cyclone,” he said. “We will not move to the cyclone centres. Let’s see what provisions the government has made to face up to such a situation.” Yaas is expected to make landfall between Paradip in Odisha and Sagar Island in Bengal on May 26. “This time, we are facing a new challenge,” Amrit Ruturaj, collector of coastal Kendrapara, told The Telegraph. “We are trying to persuade people to be ready to move to the cyclonic centres. By May 25 morning, we shall evacuate all the people from vulnerable places. The cyclone’s impact will be felt from May 25 till it makes landfall the following day.” Ruturaj said the government had taken precautions against the spread of Covid inside the shelters. “To each cyclone centre, we have attached a medical screening team. Besides, we have converted school buildings into (makeshift) cyclone centres. All possible care will be taken to maintain social distancing,” he said. “All inmates of the cyclone centres will be given masks. They will be given sanitisers frequently by our people to (disinfect) their hands.” The collector added: “Whenever we find Covid symptoms in any person, they will be moved to the isolation ward.” Similar preparations have been made in other coastal districts like Balasore, Bhadrak and Jagatsinghpur. “People are not ready to move to the cyclone centres. Most of them are scared of catching Covid,” senior Balasore-based journalist Sibdas Kundu said. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena, who has just recovered from Covid, told this newspaper: “All precautionary measures have been taken to face the onslaught of Yaas.” So far, 22 National Disaster Response Force teams have reached Odisha. “Another 10 teams are likely to reach the state this (Sunday) evening. They will be mobilised to the vulnerable points,” NDRF director-general Satya Narayan Pradhan told a local TV channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Congress blames Centre for negligence in Covid management ||The Congress has blamed the Centre for negligence in Covid management that led to a loss of thousands of lives, arguing that a better-planned vaccination drive would have prevented such a grim scenario in the country. Congress veteran and former finance minister P. Chidambaram told The Telegraph: “The central government should immediately approve Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson without insisting on further trials in India or any onerous conditions. In return for immediate approval, the government should get written commitment from each of the three to supply a large number of doses on an accelerated delivery schedule.” This insistence on the intervention of the central government has come on a day the American pharmaceutical company Moderna refused to directly deal with the government of Punjab. A Punjab government official said Moderna replied saying it can only deal with the central government according to its policy. Punjab, as well as other states, was exploring possibilities of floating a global tender to procure vaccines from all possible sources. The Congress had advocated centralised procurement of vaccines by the Narendra Modi government instead of leaving it to the states. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had pleaded with the Centre to procure the vaccines directly and distribute among the states. The Centre had under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act usurped all the powers, dealing with small issues such as deciding containment zones and restrictions for the last one year, but left the states to the mercy of international markets. Some Congress leaders believe competition between different Indian states vying for vaccines with global players can create an ugly situation. Moderna’s refusal to deal with states has created a peculiar situation. Vaccine shortage has emerged as a major concern in the country, delivering a crippling blow to the vaccination drive and forcing centres to close down in several states. Chidambaram blamed the Centre for this crisis in a series of tweets. “Five sentences from a recent interview of Dr Shahid Jameel (who resigned as head of SARS-COV 2 Genomics Consortium) captures why India faces an acute vaccine shortage: ‘Well, if you look at all the countries that have vaccinated their populations to a large percentage, all of them booked vaccine doses around mid-2020. India didn’t do that. The private sector does not work on charity; it needs to be given orders …And that is where we took our eye off the ball. They did get orders, but they got orders in January or maybe December last year.’” Chidambaram asked: “Has the ‘no shortage’ Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan read the interview? What is his answer? Is not the Government guilty of grave negligence that has cost thousands of lives?” The former finance minister added: “After Delhi suspended vaccination of 18-44 years age group because of shortage of vaccines, there is more bad news from Telangana. No vaccines have been administered in 29 out of 33 districts of Telangana because there are no vaccines. The Union Health Ministry should put out a daily statement of the number of vaccinations administered district-wise every day. The number for the whole State hides many alarming facts.” Commenting on the allegation of an official of Serum Institute of India that the central government expanded the vaccination drive without taking into account the availability of vaccines and WHO guidelines, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Ek toh mahamari, us par pradhan ahankari (As if pandemic is not enough, arrogance of the supreme leader too).” Rahul also tweeted about the photographs showing countless bodies on the bank of the Ganga, saying: “I don’t like sharing photos of dead bodies. The country and the world are sad seeing those photos. But we have to understand the pain of those people who left the bodies on the bank of Ganga in compulsion. It is not their fault. There is no collective responsibility in this context, the Central Government is solely responsible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
24-05-2021||India||Covid: UP govt exonerates Varanasi hospital accused of negligence ||The Uttar Pradesh government has exonerated a Varanasi hospital that classical singer Pandit Chhannulal Mishra had accused of negligence after his Covid-infected elder daughter died there on May 1. An unconvinced Mishra, a Padma Vibhushan awardee whom Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets every time he visits his constituency, has sought CCTV footage from the Medwin Hospital for the seven days daughter Sangita had been admitted there. Mishra and younger daughter Namrata have alleged the hospital kept them in the dark about Sangita’s treatment and medical condition throughout and let them talk to her just once, that too only after a prime ministerial intervention.Medwin says the hospital treated all Covid patients according to government guidelines. V.B. Singh, chief medical officer of Varanasi, handed the 15-page inquiry report to district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma who on Sunday sent it to Mishra, now in home isolation in Varanasi city. “Usually, a three-member team probes such cases but we formed a five-member committee.... It concluded that the patient’s treatment was done as per protocol. There’s nothing to blame the hospital about,” Sharma said. Mishra said: “I shall try to meet Prime Minister Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.... The hospital management is hiding something and the administration is supporting them.” The singer from the Kirana gharana was a proposer for Modi when he contested the Lok Sabha election from Varanasi in 2014. Modi had called Mishra to express condolences after the singer’s wife, Manorama Devi, died of Covid complications on April 26 at a different hospital. “Medwin staff had initially promised to connect us to my daughter every day via video. But they didn’t,” Mishra said. “My younger daughter could see and talk to her via a video call on April 29 only after we complained to the Prime Minister. Sangita looked fine at the time. But the hospital staff told us on May 1 morning that she was dead.” Namrata said: “They obviously didn’t want us to see her for some reason. We want to know what happened in those seven days. We want CCTV footage of those seven days from her ICU room. We want to know what medicines and injections were given to her, what tests were done and what the reports were. The report given to us doesn’t mention these things. I believe that no doctor attended to her after her admission.” Namrata added: “We had sought time from the chief minister’s office and were told we could meet him any day after informing his office in advance.” She said the family had sought CCTV footage after Sangita’s death but the hospital told them their security cameras had not been working for the past two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
24-05-2021||India||Kerala Covid care model Modi govt can learn from ||When India’s second coronavirus wave slammed the country last month, leaving many cities without enough doctors, nurses, hospital beds or lifesaving oxygen to cope, Sajeev V.B. got the help he needed. Local health workers quarantined Sajeev, a 52-year-old mechanic, at home and connected him with a doctor over the phone. When he grew sicker, they mustered an ambulance that took him to a public hospital with an available bed. Oxygen was plentiful. He left 12 days later and was not billed for his treatment. “I have no clue how the system works,” Sajeev said. “All that I did was to inform my local health worker when I tested positive. They took over everything from that point.” Sajeev’s experience had much to do with where he lives: a suburb of Kochi, Kerala. Kerala officials have stepped in where India’s central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has failed, in many ways, to provide relief for victims of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreak. Though supplies have tightened, Kerala’s hospitals enjoy access to oxygen, with officials having expanded production months ago. Coordination centres, called war rooms, direct patients and resources. Doctors there talk people at home through their illness. Kerala’s leaders work closely with on-the-ground health care workers to watch local cases and deliver medicine. “Kerala stands out as an exceptional case study when it comes to proactive pandemic response,” said Dr Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, which is based in Gurgaon. He added, “Their approach is very humane.” An ad hoc system of local officials, online networks, charities and volunteers has emerged in India to fill the gaps left by the stumbling response of the central government and many states. Patients around India have died for lack of oxygen in hospitals where beds filled up quickly. Kerala is by no means out of trouble. Deaths are rising. Workers face long hours and tough conditions. The situation could still worsen as the outbreak spreads. On paper, Kerala’s death rate, at less than 0.4 per cent, is one of India’s lowest. But even local officials acknowledge that the government’s data is lacking. Dr Arun N.M., a physician who monitors the numbers, estimates that Kerala is catching only one in five deaths. A relatively prosperous state of 35 million, Kerala presents particular challenges. Over 6 per cent of its population works abroad, mostly in the Middle East. Extensive travel forces local officials to carefully track people’s whereabouts when a disease breaks out. Kerala’s policies can be traced to the earliest days of the outbreak, when a student returning there from Wuhan, China, in January 2020 became India’s first recorded coronavirus case. Officials had learned lessons from successfully tackling a 2018 outbreak of the Nipah virus, a rare and dangerous disease. As borders closed last year and migrant workers came home, the state’s disaster management team swung into action. Returning passengers were sent into home quarantine. If a person tested positive, local officials traced their contacts. Kerala’s testing rate has been consistently above India’s average, according to health data. Experts say much of the credit for the system lies with K.K. Shailaja, a 64-year-old former schoolteacher who until this week was Kerala’s health minister. Her role in fighting the Nipah virus inspired a character in a 2019 movie. “She led the fight from the front,” said Rijo M. John, a health economist from the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi. “Testing, tracing and tracking of contacts were very rigorous from the beginning.” Local officials like Shailaja have come under intense pressure. Last year, Modi imposed one of the world’s toughest lockdowns on the entire country, a move that slowed the virus but drove India into recession. This year, Modi has resisted a nationwide lockdown, leaving local governments to take their own steps. India’s states are also competing against each other for oxygen, medicine and vaccines. “There has been a tendency to centralise decisions when things seemed under control and to deflect responsibility towards the states when things were not,” said Gilles Vernier, a professor of political science at Ashoka University. To coordinate resources, Kerala officials assembled the war rooms, one for each of the state’s 14 districts. In the district of Ernakulam, where Sajeev V.B. lives, a team of 60 staffers monitors oxygen supplies, hospital beds and ambulances. Thirty doctors keep tabs on the district’s more than 52,000 Covid patients. The war rooms collect data on hospital beds, ventilators and other factors, said Dr. Aneesh V.G., a medical officer in the district. When doctors, via telephone, determine that a patient needs to be hospitalised, they notify the war room. Case numbers pop up on a giant screen. Workers decide what kind of care each person needs and then assign a hospital and an ambulance. A separate group monitors oxygen supplies, calculating the burn rate of each hospital. Pointing to a screen, Eldho Sony, a war room coordinator, said, “we know who needs supply urgently and where it can be mobilised from.” Dr Athul Joseph Manuel, one of the doctors who designed the war room, said triage had been crucial. “In many cities across the world, lack of medical resources was not the primary issue,” he said. “It was the uneven distribution of cases that led to many hospitals getting overwhelmed.” Other places have set up similar centres, with varying effectiveness. Health experts say Kerala’s have worked because the state has a history of investing in education and health care. It has more than 250 hospital beds per 100,000 people, roughly five times India’s average, according to government and World Health Organization data. It also has more doctors per person than most states. Officials have also worked closely with state health clinics and with local members of a national network of accredited social health activists, known in India as Asha’s. The workers make sure that patients stick to their home quarantines and can get food and medicine. They also preach mask-wearing, social distancing and the virtues of vaccination. (Kerala’s share of fully vaccinated people is nearly double the national average of 3 per cent.) The work is low-paying and difficult. Geetha A.N, a 47-year-old social health activist who is the first point of contact for 420 families, begins her rounds at 9am. She delivers medicine door to door and asks if any households need food. Her phone rings nonstop, she said, as patients call for advice or for help finding a bed. Workers like her are intended to be volunteers, so Geetha’s pay is low and infrequent. She makes about $80 (Rs 5,800) a month but must buy her own protective gear. “In the early days, we got masks, sanitizers and gloves,” she said. “Now, we have to buy them ourselves.” A political shuffle has led some experts to wonder whether Kerala can keep its gains. Earlier this week, the CPM, which controls the state government, excluded Shailaja from its cabinet. “Even the best-performing governments,” Professor Vernier of Ashoka University said, “are not immune from shooting themselves in the foot”. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
