25-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech expects Covaxin to be listed by WHO during July-September||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it expects approval for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin from the World Health Organisation for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) during July-September. The company said regulatory approvals for Covaxin are in process in more than 60 countries including the USA, Brazil and Hungary among others. "Application for EUL has been submitted to WHO-Geneva. Regulatory approvals are expected during July-September 2021," it said in a release. Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is a procedure to streamline the process by which new or unlicensed products can be used during public health emergencies, according to WHO guidelines. The latest 'Status of Covid-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process guidance document dated May 18 on the WHO website said Bharat Biotech submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 and that "more information required". A pre-submission meeting is expected "to be planned May- June 2021," the WHO website said. Sources had earlier indicated that Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) has conveyed to the Centre that it has already submitted 90 per cent of documents to WHO for obtaining EUL for Covaxin. The remaining documents are expected to be submitted by June, the city-based vaccine maker reportedly had told the Central government during a discussion on obtaining WHOs authorisation for EUL for Covaxin. The city based vaccine maker said it has got Emergency Use Authorisation in 13 countries, with more to follow. Ocugen, Bharat Biotech's US partner for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin recently said it has submitted a "Master File" to the US Food and Drug Administration prior to seeking an EUA in that country. Ocugen has submitted key information and data to date, including pre-clinical studies, chemistry, manufacturing, and controls ("CMC"), and clinical studies as a "Master File" for FDA review and input prior to a planned EUA submission. The US company is currently waiting for additional data from Bharat Biotech from the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial for a EUA submission, it further said. Most countries recommend vaccinations against Covid-19. Unvaccinated travelers can travel with negative RT-PCR tests prior to their journey in the absence of any other country specific restrictions, Bharat Biotech said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Paradeep port halts operations ahead of Cyclone Yaas||Paradip Port Trust (PPT) suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday as part of safety measures in view of the impending severe cyclone 'Yaas', which is likely to cross Odisha coast on May 26, an official said. At least 12 vessels proceeded down to the deep sea so as to avoid the path of the storm, he said, adding that all the trucks, dumpers and large cargo handling equipment in the port area will be taken to a safe zone. "The authorities have been in coordination with the Odisha government and the Jagatsinghpur district administration to take all the precautionary measures," Paradip Port Trust Chairman Vinit Kumar told reporters. Severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' is likely to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Bhadrak district early on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. State Higher Education Secretary Saswat Mishra has arrived here to review the local administration's preparedness for the cyclonic storm as the government has set a "zero casualty" target. The Jagatsinghpur district administration has been making arrangements for evacuating people living near the coastal areas to cyclone shelters. "Over 10,000 people have been evacuated in Jagatsinghpur till 10 am on Tuesday," an official of the local administration said. Inspector-General of Police (Operations) Amitabh Thakur and Jagatsinghpur SP Prakash R reached the Paradip Police Station to review the situation and held talks with personnel of National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force. Kumar said the port authorities have provided food and drinking water to cyclone shelters in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: NDRF earmarks highest-ever number of teams for Odisha, Bengal||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked its highest-ever number of teams for deployment in Odisha and West Bengal as part of its preparations for the impending cyclone Yaas, a senior officer said on Tuesday. The federal contingency force has committed a total of 112 teams for deployment in five states and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands which are expected to be affected by the cyclone developing in the Bay of Bengal. Out of these, the highest the number of 52 teams are designated for Odisha followed by 45 teams for West Bengal. The rest of the teams are being stationed in states like Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and the UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a tweet that this was this was the "highest ever" commitment of its teams in the two states of Odisha and West Bengal. A senior official said the number of NDRF teams earmarked for these two states during past cyclones have never been this high. Teams in these two states can also be enhanced if the states require or situation demands, he added. Cyclonic storm Yaas is likely to make a landfall near Balasore in north Odisha sometime around Wednesday noon. It can possess a speed of 155 kmph-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, the Met department had said on Monday. Each NDRF team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. These teams, along with various disaster combat and mitigation units, are presently carrying out evacuation and awareness drives in the affected areas so that no lives are lost, the senior officer said. Pradhan had told PTI on Monday that at least 50 more teams have been kept as backup at its various country-wide bases and they can be airlifted for cyclone Yaas duties as and when required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||SC allows CBI to withdraw appeal against HC in Narada bribery case||The Supreme Court Tuesday permitted the CBI to withdraw its appeal against the Calcutta High Court order allowing house arrest of four leaders, including three from the TMC, in the Narada bribery case. A vacation bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai took note of the fact that a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court is already hearing the Narada bribery case and permitted Solicitor General Tuahar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, to take back its appeal and raise all the grievances there in the high court. "We have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case and our observations do not reflect our views on merits of the matter," the bench said, adding that the West Bengal and leaders are also free to raise their submissions on the high court. The high court had on May 21 ordered shifting of two West Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former Kolkata mayor to house arrest from jail. A division bench, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, differed on the issue of recalling the stay on bail to the four accused. On May 24, the five-judge bench of the High Court heard the case and refused the prayer by CBI to adjourn the matter. Bengal Transport Minister Firhad Hakim, Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI last Monday in connection with the Narada sting tape case that is being investigated by the agency on a 2017 order of the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Fear of death not a ground to grant bail, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Tuesday stayed sweeping directions issued by Allahabad High Court, which had granted anticipatory bail to an accused in a cheating case observing that apprehension of death due to Covid-19 infection can be a valid ground for granting the relief. The top court said that courts shall not consider the directions issued by the High Court on May 10 for grant of anticipatory bail to accused in other cases. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai said, "Sweeping directions have been made, we therefore direct the same to be stayed and the courts shall not consider the directions to grant anticipatory bail to accused in other cases and must consider merits of each case." The bench appointed senior advocate V Giri, as amicus curiae in the matter to assist it on the larger aspect of whether Covid can be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Uttar Pradesh government challenging the High Court order of May 10. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government said that this accused (Prateek Jain), who was granted anticipatory bail till January 2022, has 130 cases pending against him. He said that this order has been relied on in many other cases in which the accused have been seeking anticipatory bail. The bench said, We understand that you are aggrieved with the sweeping directions passed by the court. We will issue notice in the matter". The top court sought reply from Jain and said if he does not appear on the next date of hearing it may consider cancellation of his bail. It listed the matter for further hearing in the first week of July. On May 18, the top court had agreed to hear the appeal filed by the state government. The high court had on May 10 said, “If an accused dies on account of the reasons beyond control when he could have been protected from death by the court, the grant or refusal of anticipatory bail to him would be an exercise in futility. Hence, an apprehension to death on account of reasons like the present pandemic of novel coronavirus can certainly be held to be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.” It had directed that in case of his arrest, Jain shall be enlarged on anticipatory bail for the limited period till January 3, 2022. It had observed that "extraordinary times require extraordinary remedies and desperate times require remedial remedies". "Therefore, the apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused, it had said. The high court had imposed conditions including that the petitioner shall not obstruct or hamper police investigation and shall not leave the country without prior permission from the trial court concerned. It had said that the Supreme Court recently passed several directions to decongest prisons across India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "The observations and directions of the apex court show concern about the overcrowding of jails, and in case this court, ignoring the same, passes an order which will result in overcrowding of jails again, it would be quite paradoxical," it had said. "Counsel for the state has not given any assurance of protection of the accused persons, who are in jail and may be sent to jail, regarding their protection from contracting the infection of the novel coronavirus," it had observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Congress writes to Twitter, seeks manipulated media tag on tweets of 11 union ministers||The Congress on Tuesday demanded that Twitter affix manipulated media tag to tweets of several union ministers for allegedly spreading false and malicious propaganda against the party. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala wrote to Twitter's Lead for Legal, Policy and Trust and Safety Vijaya Gadde and its Deputy General Counsel and Vice President (Legal) Jim Baker, seeking stern action against 11 union ministers for allegedly spreading false and forged documents. Surjewala has alleged that the "forged, fabricated material" and the claims made under the #CongressToolkitExposed by various ministers are identical to the material that has already been marked as 'manipulated media' by Twitter. He alleged that the subject matter of the forged Toolkit document was created by certain BJP leaders to gain undue and wrongful political advantage by spreading potentially dangerous, false and fabricated material through their Twitter handles against the Indian National Congress and its leaders. The union ministers against whom the Congress has sought action are Giriaj Singh, Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prahlad Joshi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Thawarchand Gehlot, Harsh Vardhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Surjewala said, "It is a matter of fact that people tend to believe 'true' and take on face value, any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister of the Government of India through his/ her official/ verified Twitter account." "Hence, it becomes all the more imperative to tag, 'manipulative media' (sic), on all such tweets made by Ministers of the Government of India on the above referred forged toolkit document created by the BJP," he said in his complaint. "It is reasonable to expect that the aforementioned individuals will be dealt with the same yardstick as applied in other cases where the Twitter platform is misused to broadcast forged and fabricated material...," he also said. This comes a day after Delhi Police's Special Cell sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'COVID toolkit', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media", with two police teams descending on the microblogging site's offices in Lado Sarai in Delhi and in Gurgaon on Monday evening. Earlier, Twitter tagged tweets of BJP leaders Sambit Patra and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat as "manipulative media". The Congress has accused BJP leaders, including union ministers, of misusing the Twitter platform to disseminate forged and fabricated material. The Congress had earlier complained to Delhi police to register an FIR against BJP leaders for allegedly spreading "false" information about the Congress toolkit. The NSUI has already registered an FIR against Raman Singh and Sambit Patra in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, where the Congress is in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Covid toolkit: Delhi Police serve notices to 2 Congress leaders||The Delhi Police has served notices to two Congress leaders in the 'Covid toolkit' case, asking them to join the probe into a complaint in the matter, officials said on Tuesday. A senior police officer confirmed that the notices were served to Congress social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson MV Rajeev Gowda in connection with the probe. "These are not fresh notices. These notices were served around 8-9 days ago based on a complaint received from the Congress. They were asked to join the probe so that it could help us in carrying the investigation forward," the officer said. A preliminary inquiry into the complaint is still being carried out by the Delhi Police's Special Cell team and no FIR has been registered in the matter yet, officials said. On Monday, the Delhi Police's Special Cell sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged ''Covid toolkit'', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as manipulated media, officials had said. The police teams also descended on the microblogging site's offices in Lado Sarai in Delhi and in Gurgaon Monday evening. "The Delhi police team went to the Twitter office to serve a notice to Twitter as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal had said The BJP has accused the Congress of creating a ''toolkit'' on how to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Congress has denied the allegation and claimed that the BJP is propagating a fake ''toolkit'' to defame it. Last week, Twitter labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet by Patra on the alleged ''toolkit''. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated". Biswal said the Delhi Police is inquiring into a complaint in the toolkit matter. "It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us and on the basis of which they have classified it (Patra's tweet) as such. This information is relevant to the inquiry. The Special Cell, which is conducting the inquiry, wants to find out the truth. Twitter, which has claimed to know the underlying truth, should clarify," he said. The government had earlier asked Twitter to remove the ''manipulated media'' tag as the matter is pending before law enforcement agencies and made it clear that the social media platform cannot pass judgment when the issue is under investigation. BJP leaders, including Patra, have posted numerous tweets to attack the Congress over the purported ''toolkit''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Facebook says it is 'aiming to comply' with new IT rules ||Facebook on Tuesday said it is working to implement operational processes and aims to comply with the provisions of the IT rules that come into effect from May 26. The social media giant, however, said it continues to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. The comments assume significance as social media companies are facing the deadline of May 25 to comply with the new guidelines for digital platforms. The new rules were announced in February which requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. IT Ministry sources said that appointment of a grievance officer would be a key requirement from day-one of rules coming into effect, given the importance of public interface for complaints, and need for an acknowledgement system for requests. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In a statement on Tuesday, a Facebook spokesperson said: We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies . Facebook remains committed to people's ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platform, the spokesperson added. The company, however, did not divulge additional details. According to sources close to the development, provisions around voluntary verification, 24-hour timeline to remove content flagged for nudity etc and setting up a process and time bound grievance redressal mechanism has been put in place, while meeting requirements like generation of monthly compliance reports and appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer is underway. On February 25, the government had announced tighter regulations for social media firms, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a robust complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The government had set 50 lakh registered users as the threshold for defining 'significant social media intermediary', meaning that large players like Twitter, Facebook and Google would have to comply with additional norms. Announcing the guidelines in February, it had said the new rules take effect immediately, while significant social media providers (based on number of users) will get three months before they need to start complying. The three-month time period meant compliance by May 25. Last week, Koo had said it has complied with the requirements of the new rules and its Privacy Policy, Terms of Use and Community Guidelines now reflect the changes. Koo has close to 6 million (60 lakh) users, making it a major social media intermediary under the new guidelines. Significant social media companies will also have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as also details of contents removed proactively. They will also be required to have a physical contact address in India published on its website or mobile app, or both. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. The new rules were introduced to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram - which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India - more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. The intermediary, however, will not be required to disclose the contents of any message. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp. The rules also state that users who voluntarily want to verify their accounts should be given an appropriate mechanism to do so, and be accorded a visible mark of verification. Users will have to be provided with a prior intimation and explanation when a significant social media intermediary removes content on its own. In such cases, users have to be provided an adequate and reasonable opportunity to dispute the action taken by the intermediary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||WHO seeks 'more information' from Bharat Biotech for emergency use listing of Covaxin||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said more information is required from Bharat Biotech, which is seeking emergency use listing (EUL) for its Covaxin vaccine for COVID-19.  The latest Status of COVID-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process' guidance document dated May 18 on the WHO website said Bharat Biotech submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 and that more information required . A pre-submission meeting is expected to be planned May-June 2021, the guidance document said.  According to the WHO, submissions to it for prequalification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential.  If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on those data meeting WHO criteria, according to the agency.  Meanwhile, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) has conveyed to the government that it has already submitted 90 per cent of documents to WHO for obtaining emergency use listing (EUL) for the Covaxin vaccine, sources said in New Delhi on Monday.  The remaining documents are expected to be submitted by June, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech Ltd told the Central government during a discussion on obtaining the World Health Organisation's authorisation for emergency use listing for Covaxin, sources said.  "BBIL is confident about obtaining WHO's emergency use listing," said a source. Noting that Covaxin has already received regulatory approval from 11 countries, sources said there was also interest from other 11 companies in seven nations for technology transfer and production of Covaxin.  The company is in the final stages of negotiations with the Food and Drug Administration of the US for conducting small-scale phase-III clinical trials of Covaxin in the United States, sources said.  Sources said the meeting with BBIL on the EUL was attended by the company's managing director V Krishna Mohan and his colleagues besides senior officers of the Ministry of Health, Department of Biotechnology and Ministry of External Affairs.  Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla was among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Covid: India's daily caseload drops below 2 lakh after more than a month||The daily count of coronavirus cases in the country fell below the 2-lakh mark after over a month taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,69,48,874, while the death toll rose to 3,07,231, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 1,96,427 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day. The country also reported the lowest death toll in 21 days with 3,511 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had registered 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections on April 14. The active cases have further reduced to 25,86,782 comprising 9.60 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.26 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,40,54,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 33,25,94,176 samples have been tested up to May 24 with 20,58,112 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,511 new fatalities include 592 from Maharashtra, 529 from Karnataka, 404 from Tamil Nadu, 207 from Delhi, 196 from Kerala, 187 from Punjab, 153 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand and 103 from Rajasthan. A total of 3,07,231 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 89,212 from Maharashtra, 25,811 from Karnataka, 23,409 from Delhi, 20,872 from Tamil Nadu, 19,362 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,517 from West Bengal, 13,468 from Punjab and 12,646 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi goes missing||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,5000-crore loan fraud in Punjab National Bank, has gone missing in Antigua and Barbuda where he had been staying since January 2018, the Royal Police Force of the Caribbean island nation said in a statement. The police force which has launched a missing person operation issued a statement along with the photograph of the businessman seeking information from public. "The Police are investigating a Missing Person Report made of 62-year-old Mehul Choksi of Jolly Harbour. Mehul was reported missing on Sunday 23rd May 2021 at the Johnson Point Police Station," the statement said. Choksi was last seen on Sunday in his car which was recovered by the police following searches but he could not be found, it said. "Antiguanewsroom", a local media outlet, quoted Commissioner of Police Atlee Rodney on Tuesday that the police are "following up on the whereabouts of Indian businessman Mehul Choksi", who is "rumoured" to be missing. The media reports say Choksi, who had taken the citizenship of the Caribbean island nation of Antigua and Barbuda, was seen driving in the southern area of the island on Sunday. Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal confirmed the reports. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted for allegedly siphoning off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB), using letters of undertaking. While Modi is in a London prison after repeated denial of bail and is contesting extradition to India, Choksi had taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme, before fleeing India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently. Both are facing a CBI probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: US jabs not available for import to states as manufacturer's 'order books are full', says Centre||Covid-19 vaccines from US companies are not immediately available for import by states because the vaccine makers’ “order books are full”, a Union health ministry official said on Monday, flagging what health experts say is the Centre’s self-inflicted vaccine quagmire. Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the Union ministry, said the Centre would facilitate regulatory approvals and procurements of vaccines when they become available, amid concerns expressed by Delhi and Punjab that the companies had indicated they would deal only with the Centre. Agarwal said the Centre is “coordinating” with Pfizer and Moderna, two US pharma companies that make Covid vaccines. “Their order books (are) already full. It is depending on their surplus – how much they can provide to India, they will come back to the Government of India and we’ll ensure, facilitate supply at the state level,” Agarwal said. Health policy experts tracking India’s vaccine supplies said the absence of immediate extra doses through imports underlined the Centre’s poor planning that has left India, one of the world’s largest vaccine makers, struggling to inoculate its people. “The demand-supply mismatch shows the poor planning,” said R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. “We would have known last year how many doses we needed and what our production capacity was.” Many health experts have said that India should have, during the second half of 2020, invested in vaccine procurement through advance purchase pacts just as other major countries – the US, the UK, Brazil, among others – had done. By November 2020, many countries had advance-purchased hundreds of millions of doses of the vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. The Centre neither pursued deals with the US vaccine makers nor did it invest to scale up domestic production. “The Centre did not even order vaccines from Serum or Bharat (Biotech) until January this year – and that too in bits and pieces,” Ramakumar said. The Centre announced its first large tranches of funds to Serum and Bharat Biotech only in April this year. The vaccination campaign currently relies on Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Ramakumar and other health experts have described the Centre’s April decision to allow states to procure vaccines for people 18 years or older as an effort to deflect blame for the emerging vaccine shortages from itself to the states. “Throughout 2020, the Centre directed the states not to independently procure vaccines, assuring them that the Centre would do so,” a public health expert who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. “Then, on April 19, they abruptly asked the states to procure vaccines for themselves.” Pfizer and Moderna have told Delhi, and Moderna has told Punjab that the companies would engage only with the Centre and not with state governments or private entities. A Pfizer spokesperson had also told this newspaper in December that the company would only deal with the government. The two states are among many across the country trying to procure vaccines after the Centre revised its policy on April 19 to allow the states to inoculate all adults 18 years or older, increasing the number of the beneficiaries without provisions for extra vaccine supplies. India has an estimated 950 million people 18 years or older for whom the country would require at least 1.9 billion doses, or a production capacity of 158 million doses per month for full immunisation within a year. The current capacity is about 85 million doses per month -- 70 million doses of Covishield and 15 million doses of Covaxin. Only about 43.2 million, or 4.5 per cent of the eligible population, in India have so far received the two doses required for full protection. A health official had said earlier this month that Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson had indicated they were not in a position to supply their Covid-19 vaccines to India until the third quarter of this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks Centre’s reply on petitions seeking Rs 4 lakh ex gratia compensation||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s reply on petitions seeking ex gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh under the Disaster Management Act to the families of all those who have died of Covid-19. The court wanted the Centre to place before it the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research on issuing death certificates for Covid-19 victims so that their families don’t have to run from pillar to post for collecting the ex gratia  amount. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah issued notice to the Centre on two separate pleas filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal. The petitioners pointed out that under a 2015 notification issued by the Centre, the government is duty bound to pay an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the victims’ kin under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act. The Centre had declared the Covid-19 pandemic as a national disaster under the same act. It is the fundamental duty of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to provide “minimum standards” of relief to persons affected by disaster, the petitioners said. Over 3.10 lakh people have so far died in the country after the outbreak of Covid-19 in November 2019, they said. Apart from general citizens who had succumbed to the pandemic, the petitioners  wanted the ex gratia to be given to a large number of frontline workers like doctors, paramedical staff, police and civic staff. The petitioners placed before the court details of a notification issued by the Centre  on April 8, 2015, by invoking Section 12 (iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “It is respectfully submitted that as per the said notification Respondent No. 1 (the Centre) has decided to pay Rs 4 lakh as ex gratia payment to per deceased person, including those involved in relief operations or associated preparedness,” the petition filed by Bansal said. The bench pointed out: “It is submitted by learned counsel for the petitioner that under the revised list of items and norms of assistance from the State disaster response fund, which is part of the letter dated 08.04.2015, Rs 400,000/- as ex gratia compensation is required to be made.” During the hearing, Justice Shah asked additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appearing for Centre whether there was a uniform policy on issuing death certificates as there were  many instances where the death was not attributed to Covid-19. “States say they follow ICMR guidelines, produce the guidelines about the death certificates. If benefit is to be given to Covid deaths, then reasons like lung problem, etc, is given. So people have to go from one office to another. What is the uniform policy in this regard?” Justice Shah asked Bhati, to which she said she was not served copies of the petitions by the petitioners. “It is contended that there is no uniform policy for issuing the certificate or any official document regarding causes of death to the deceased families due to which there is a difficulty on availing various benefits,” the bench said. “Ms Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG appearing for the Union of India, seeks time to obtain instructions and bring all relevant materials regarding the scheme under Section 12(iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as the letter dated 08.04.2015. “The policies or guidelines regarding issuance of death certificate with regard to patients, who were infected with Covid-19, may also be brought on the record, including the guidelines issued by the ICMR,” the bench said. The court granted the Centre 10 days to file a counter-affidavit and three days for the petitioners to lodge rejoinder affidavit. The case has been listed for June 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Cops 'visits' the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurgaon||Delhi police visited the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurgaon on Monday evening, three days after the micro-blogging site labelled as “manipulated media” a post by BJP leader Sambit Patra. Patra’s post dealt with what he had claimed was a Congress “toolkit” on Covid. The Congress had last week complained to Twitter against Patra, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and other leaders of the ruling party for allegedly circulating forged documents and spreading misinformation. The Congress had also complained to the Delhi police. Amid reports that Twitter had been raided, Delhi police PRO Chinmoy Biswal told PTI: “The police team went to the Twitter office to serve a notice on Twitter as part of a routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who the right person is to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous.” Earlier on Monday, a Delhi police special cell had served a notice on Twitter. The notice was addressed to Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter India. In the evening, the Delhi police said: “Delhi police is enquiring into a complaint…. It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us, on the basis of which they have classified it as such. This information is relevant to the enquiry. (The) special cell, which is conducting the enquiry, wants to find out the truth. Twitter, which has claimed to know the underlying truth, should clarify.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Politicians say Praful Khoda Patel is turning Lakshadweep  into 'another Kashmir'||The new administrator of Muslim-majority Lakshadweep has been accused of moving to ban beef-eating and cattle transport, cracking down on protests and destroying the fishing infrastructure, with politicians alleging he wants to turn the Union Territory into “another Kashmir” and MPs writing to the President against him. Praful Khoda Patel, formerly Gujarat home minister under then chief minister Narendra Modi and said to be close to Union home minister Amit Shah, has been executing “a Sangh parivar agenda” since his appointment last December, said Kerala-based Congress politician V.T. Balram. Patel is the first politician since Independence to be appointed administrator — the islands’ topmost official authority —  with all his predecessors having been civil servants. Balram and others pointed to several of his actions: the expulsion of non-vegetarian food from school midday meals and hostel dining halls; a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants that mirrors a parivar prejudice against Muslims; the dismissal of 2,000 temporary government workers that has raised fears about “outsiders” being brought in to replace them. “His (amendment of the 1994 panchayati raj rules) to not allow people with more than two children into local bodies itself indicates that Patel is implementing a Sangh parivar agenda targeting Muslims,” Balram, among the first to publicise Lakshadweep’s grievances through a Facebook post, told this correspondent. “It’s part of the Sangh parivar mission to turn the islands into another Kashmir, with the residents turning extremely insecure.” Of the 36 islands that make up the Union Territory, only 10 have a human presence. The overwhelming majority of Lakshadweep’s 65,000-odd people are Muslim. Opposition politicians, some of whom have written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking reversal of Patel’s decisions or his recall, flagged several of the administrator’s “anti-people and authoritarian” actions: Lakshadweep MP and Nationalist Congress Party leader Muhammed Faizal said that Patel had enforced the “Control of Goonda Act on the islands, where crime is rare, only to make people insecure so they don’t protest against his dictatorial regime”. “All the posters and boards erected here against the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act have been removed,” Faizal said. The Control of Goonda Act allows arrests without warrants and facilitates long detentions. “Police are now intimidating youngsters with the threat of arrest under the Goonda Act if they get involved in protests against the NRC and the CAA,” Faizal said. Balram said: “Fearing confinement under the Goonda Act, the local community is now silent but there is simmering discontent.” Apart from moving to stop the sale, consumption, storage and transport of beef in a Union Territory where meat and fish are staple diets, Patel has cracked down on the fishing community that makes up more than 80 per cent of the local population. His administration has removed their temporary huts, sheds, boats, net-drying facilities and storage spaces from the shores citing violation of coastal zone norms. “This has meant that thousands of fisherpersons... are unable to support themselves and their families,” CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam has written to the President. Viswam said:  “Dairies have been hurt by the ban on cattle sale and transport. None of the decisions has been taken in consultation with local communities or their elected bodies.” With Muslims making up “over 96 per cent of the population” of Lakshadweep, “in accordance with the religious and cultural beliefs of the community, the consumption of alcohol was banned on the islands”, Viswam has written to Kovind. “However, in a recent decision, the administration has begun issuing liquor licences under the guise of promoting tourism and individual freedom, thereby completely ignoring the socio-cultural context of the area,” Viswam’s letter says. “The islands had effectively kept away Covid till last December through social distancing and adherence to the protocols. But they are now witnessing many positive cases after the administrator lifted all Covid regulatory norms,” Faizal said. He said that people arriving from outside were earlier required to quarantine themselves but Patel relaxed those norms in the name of promoting tourism. As a result, Lakshadweep has seen “over 4,000 cases with over 20 deaths already”, Viswam has written to Kovind. “Further, the pressure on the health infrastructure of the islands has increased manifold leaving the population vulnerable and worried.” CPM Rajya Sabha member Elamarom Kareem, who has written to Kovind seeking Patel’s recall, said the administrator had instructed ship and boat operators to ignore the ancient port of Beypore in north Kerala and prefer Mangalore port in south Karnataka when they sail to the mainland. “The islanders speak Malayalam and are culturally connected to Kerala. Beypore port has been the link between the mainland and the islands for generations. Now the administrator is trying to sever the link between the island natives and Kerala,” Kareem said. Viswam said over 2,000 temporary government servants had been sacked in the past six months even before completing their tenures and suggested the motive was sectarian. “The administrator has also sealed off 38 Anganwadi centres, meant to provide nutritious food to children and pregnant or lactating women. The tourism department has fired 109 employees under the administrator’s orders,” he said. All this was done on the plea that these Anganwadis and posts were redundant. But many islanders fear the agenda is to fill the posts later with non-Muslims from Kerala and Karnataka. A Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, 2021, has been drafted to facilitate the “progressive development of land in both urban and rural areas” and to confer additional powers for acquisition. The islanders fear this will hurt the archipelago’s fragile and diverse ecosystem. Hibi Eden, a Congress MP from Kerala, too has written to the President and Prime Minister, seeking their intervention. Actor and filmmaker Prithviraj Sukumaran has openly expressed solidarity with the islanders saying he had made friends there during the two-month shoot of his recent blockbuster Anarkali in Lakshadweep capital Kavaratti. He has also shot portions of his directorial debut Lucifer on the islands. “For the last few days, I have been getting desperate messages from people I know and do not know from these islands, requesting and sometimes even pleading for me to do what I can to bring public attention to what is going on there,” he has written on social media. “The new administrator’s reforms are completely bizarre.... How can you disrupt the way of life of a centuries-old peaceful settlement?” Actress and director Geetu Mohandas too has protested some of the administrator’s decisions. Footballer C.K. Vineeth ended his tweet questioning Patel's actions with: “Enough is enough! #SaveLakshadweep.” Patel became Gujarat home minister in 2010 after Amit Shah had to vacate the post following the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. Patel stayed in the job till 2012. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Centre’s decision to allow states to directly deal with pharmaceutical companies cruel: Congress||The Congress on Monday said the Narendra Modi government’s decision to allow states to directly deal with global pharmaceutical companies without giving formal approval to their vaccines showed they were “callous and cruel”. While Moderna had refused to deal with Punjab, the Delhi government on Monday said even Pfizer did the same. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The Centre needs to procure vaccines and distribution be left to states — then only vaccination can reach villages. Why can’t the Central Government understand this simple logic?” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “Is there any surprise that Pfizer and Moderna have refused to deal with states (Punjab, Delhi) and will deal only with the Central Government? The Central Government’s direction to the states to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers abroad was a cynical move. If Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have not yet been ‘approved for use’ by the Central Government, how will they deal with or sell to the states?” Chidambaram added: “The Government has rebuffed our advice as well as the suggestion of the courts, that procurement of vaccines must be centralised. The Modi Government is callous and cruel. Meanwhile, the shortage of vaccines will continue and the people will suffer and thousands will die. What a tragedy!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi government asks Centre to import vaccines||The Delhi government on Monday asked the Centre to “rise above petty politics” and import Covid-19 vaccines, on a day when Covaxin stocks ran out in the capital and there is no clarity yet on the availability of foreign vaccines. The Punjab and Delhi governments have said that the US drugmakers Moderna and Pfizer refused to deal with them, while the Centre is yet to give permission to these companies for use of their vaccines in India. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday: “If we demand adequate vaccines from the central government, they provide only 4 lakh doses and ask us to float tenders. When we do reach out to global vaccine companies, the central government again comes in the middle as an intermediary. There is no solution here. The central government has asked states to deal with global vaccine companies on an individual level whereas when we reach out to these companies, they claim to be in touch with the Centre only.” He added: “The central government needs to understand the gravity of the situation and immediately procure vaccines from global vaccine companies. It’s time to rise above petty politics and think about the safety of our citizens.” Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at the current pace of vaccination it would take 30 months to cover the capital’s citizens. “… why can’t this be the case that the central government calls, invites and talks to these companies (Moderna and Pfizer). I think within three-four days deals and agreements can be made with all the companies.” He added: “A national newspaper reported that 16 such companies can make Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Out of them, Bharat Biotech has struck a deal with only two of these companies. So, the central government should call, invite and talk to all these 16 companies. It should then formally order and not request that these 16 companies start their production within the next few days. If the 16 companies start their production, then 25 crore vaccine doses can be manufactured every month. Then why are we not making these? What we have witnessed in the cases of the UK and US, there are less than 18,000 cases in the US, that experience shows that the vaccine is the only thing that is the solution for this (pandemic). The Covaxin (stock in Delhi) is over but Covishield is left for a few days.” Former Union finance minister P. Chidambaram also slammed the Centre’s policy asking states and municipal bodies to float global tenders for vaccines that is yet to attract any takers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Cong seeks registration of FIR against Shivraj Singh Chouhan||An ugly political battle has erupted in Madhya Pradesh over the extent of damage caused by the pandemic as the Congress on Monday sought registration of FIR against chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in every district of the state for the “sin” of hiding the actual death figures. Congress workers on Monday approached police stations in all the 52 districts of the state and filed complaints against the manipulation of data on Covid-19 deaths and sought registration of FIR against the chief minister. This followed the coercive action by the state government on Sunday in which an FIR was filed against former chief minister and state Congress chief Kamal Nath for exaggerating death figures and using the term “Indian variant” to defame the country. The Congress hit back with a vengeance. It not only targeted the chief minister, but also asked party workers to go door-to-door to compile the number of deaths in every district, the complete details of which would be uploaded on a website later. While the government has said only 8,000 people had died due to Covid-19 till Sunday, the Congress put the number at over one lakh. The Congress also presented data collected from crematoriums of big cities such as Indore and Bhopal to expose the claims made by the government. While Chouhan justified the FIR against Nath by expressing outrage over his decision to play politics on “dead bodies”, BJP leaders went to police stations seeking FIRs against the state Congress chief. The BJP workers condemned Nath as “traitor” and burnt his effigies. Chouhan also asked Sonia Gandhi to explain whether she agreed with Nath on the “Indian variant” of the coronavirus. The Congress rubbished the BJP’s hype over the expression “Indian variant”, pointing out that the government of India’s own affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court mentioned — Indian double mutant strain — in paragraph 33. “Will Chouhan file an FIR against the central government as well?” Nath argued that both national and international media were referring to the Indian variant, apart from several heads of states across the world. Responding to the FIR against him, Nath said: “The BJP is not fighting corona(virus), it is fighting aalochna (criticism). They have brought the country to such a miserable condition — Indian students are not allowed to go back, people are not sitting in taxis run by Indians in foreign countries. The government is oblivious of the real problems and is interested only in image management. What was the Prime Minister doing before the second wave struck? He was celebrating victory over corona(virus). Economy is in shambles, small businesses are destroyed, the poor are in such distress.” The Congress has also appealed to families who have lost their loved ones to register FIRs against attempts to hide the number of deaths. Congress spokesperson Jitu Patwari said their sole intention was to ensure that the families of those who died of Covid-19 got compensation and benefits of government policies. “The difference between the actual number of deaths is at least 10 to 15 times more than the official figure in every district,” he said. The Congress cited a newspaper report, which said: “26,000 deaths happened over a period of 61 days in the second wave while the official claim was only 7,139 deaths over 424 days.” Patwari said: “There are 6,500 villages in Madhya Pradesh and no village has witnessed less than 10-15 deaths. A frightened chief minister is trying to hide his sins. But we are not going to allow that, we want justice for the people.” The Congress had a few days ago sought a white paper on Covid deaths, arguing that many states were hiding the actual numbers. They have particularly targeted Gujarat, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, saying that data collected from crematoriums showed the number of deaths was very high but the government was not registering all the deaths as Covid-19 casualties. The bodies flowing in the Ganga in different cities of Uttar Pradesh and thousands of corpses strewn on the banks of the river — a horrible sight that made international news — indicate the tragedy is much bigger than the government is conceding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||UP Panchyat polls 2021: Political workers claim to have paid for their nomination as candidates||It was perhaps the first time in Uttar Pradesh that some political workers have claimed that they had paid for their nomination as candidates in the panchayat elections, which concluded last month. Around 40 Samajwadi Party workers staged a dharna on Monday in front of the party office in Deoria demanding their money back from Dilip Yadav, the organisation’s district president, after they didn’t get tickets. Samajwadi member Ramashrya Gaud said: “The SP district president had taken Rs 22,000 from 117 members including me promising us panchayat poll tickets. We didn’t get the tickets and so we want our money back.” Another protesting member Aftab Alam said: “The district president didn’t tell any of us that he is demanding money from all. He told us to remain silent. Later we came to know that he was playing with all of us. In a village, Rs 22,000 is a big amount. Many of us had borrowed money from elsewhere to stump up the amount. We asked Dilip to hold a meeting of the members at the district headquarters and return the money to us. But he refused to do so.” Another party worker Hemlata Devi said: “We can move the police for action against the district president if our leaders don’t pay heed to our protest.” Dilip admitted before the reporters that he had received money from party members but claimed that it was not in exchange for panchayat election ticket. “The money was collected from them for the publication of Samajwadi Bulletin, a monthly magazine of the party. This amount covered the lifetime subscription of the magazine for the members. I will soon give them the receipt of the collected amount.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||UGC: Universities to offer up to 80 per cent of any non-technical academic programme online||The University Grants Commission has proposed allowing universities to offer up to 80 per cent of any non-technical academic programme online, dismaying academics who say this would hurt the quality of education and entangle poor and rural students in problems of connectivity. The higher education regulator had last year allowed universities to offer up to 40 per cent of any non-technical course online, up from the 20 per cent mandated in 2017. About 100 universities have begun offering a few courses online under the 40 per cent mode. Last week, the commission uploaded the latest proposal and sought feedback  by June 6. Under the current system, the 40 per cent online education is conducted only through readymade material, such as pre-recorded classes and Massive Open and Online Courses or MOOCs, which are e-content prepared by subject experts. The varsities are not allowed to conduct real-time virtual classes. The exams are held online too. But under the new proposal, the additional 40 per cent of online education can include virtual classes, and the exams are held offline. Teachers say the proposal reflects the government’s desire to reduce expenditure on higher education and, if implemented, would make online education the mainstay at public universities, causing their standards to suffer. They fear that the private universities would continue teaching face-to-face, thus attracting the best students. “It’s accepted the world over that online education cannot replace offline (face-to-face) teaching,” said Rajesh Jha, former member of Delhi University’s executive council. “The leading universities use it (online education) to supplement offline teaching.” He added: “There are enough studies that show a decline in the quality of learning and research among students participating in some of the online programmes. Ultimately, the public universities in India will adopt these disastrous measures under pressure from the UGC and the government. Standards will suffer, and the private universities will prosper.” In a media statement, the Delhi University teachers’ association president, Rajib Ray, opposed the proposal on the ground that many students “from underprivileged families or rural areas” lack computers or high-speed Internet, key to accessing online education. Ray expressed concern about a reduction in teaching jobs since the e-content of online education can be shared among students of most institutions. “A clear objective behind these policies is to reduce the need to hire teachers. This notification hence puts in immediate jeopardy the future of over 4,500 ad-hoc teachers working in DU and will have disastrous consequences for the classroom experience for students,” the statement said. R.P. Tiwari, UGC member and vice-chancellor of Punjab Central University, said that even if the proposal got accepted, it would be the academic and executive councils of each university that would decide whether to allow online education and to what extent. UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said the proposal sought to give the universities and students more flexibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Odisha govt begins evacuating people from vulnerable places in the coastal belt||The Odisha government began evacuating people from vulnerable places in the coastal belt from Monday morning, ahead of the expected landfall by Cyclone Yaas on Wednesday evening. With many people reluctant to shift to the cyclone shelters for fear of catching Covid, chief minister Naveen Patnaik issued an appeal asking people to cooperate with the officials. The government has stressed that enough precautions are being taken at the cyclone shelters against the spread of Covid, and arrangements are being made for detection, isolation and treatment of patients. The evacuation is likely to be completed by Tuesday evening. Pre-cyclone rainfall has begun in many parts of Odisha, including Bhubaneswar, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore. With high tide noticed in the sea in many areas such as Astaranga and Kakatpur in Puri district, the threat of saline ingress looms. Announcements are being made over the public address system asking fishermen in particular to shift to safer places. “As this is the time of Covid, we need to be more careful. Whether you are in a cyclone shelter or in your own house, I request all of you to wear double masks. Besides, wash your hands frequently with soap and sanitiser,” the chief minister said. Naveen has directed the district collectors to provide masks to the people through Mission Shakti, a self-help programme for empowering women. Odisha on Monday launched a door to-door campaign to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms. The state has seen 7.03 lakh people get infected with Covid, of whom 2,516 have died. The number of active cases is 1.11 lakh, with the daily infections currently numbering around 11,000. Odisha has deployed more than 700 units of disaster fighting personnel, including 60 units of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), 22 of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and fire services teams in vulnerable areas. Another 30 NDRF units are expected to arrive by Tuesday morning. The state has deployed five senior IAS and IPS officers to monitor relief and restoration. They will remain in charge of the coastal districts and coordinate with special relief commissioner P.K. Jena. “We are working with the goal of achieving zero casualty,” Jena told reporters. “Around 60 ODRAF units, 200 fire-fighter units, 165 special engineering teams, 52 NDRF units and an equal number of units from the works and rural departments will be deployed for relief and rescue. We are prepared to face any situation.” The state government has drafted in women’s self-help groups and panchayat members too. The cyclone is expected to make landfall between Paradip in Odisha and Sagar Island in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||Delhi HC glare on politicians buying Covid drugs in bulk amid shortages||Delhi High Court on Monday directed the drug controller to inquire into the issue of politicians buying Covid-19 drugs in bulk amid shortages. It observed that while BJP MP Gautam Gambhir must have been distributing medicines with the best of intentions, the gesture unintentionally did a disservice. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the drug controller shall examine how it is possible for someone to procure over 2,000 strips of Fabiflu, a medicine for treating Covid-19, which is already in shortage and how the chemist was able to entertain such a prescription. “Gautam Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. We are not doubting his intentions. Our question is whether it is a responsible behaviour when the medicine is in short supply. We are not doubting his intentions but the way he has gone about it, he has actually done a disservice, unintentionally may be. This was not the way that you buy from the market so many strips, certainly not,” the bench said. The high court also directed the drug controller of Delhi government to conduct a similar inquiry into the allegations of procuring and hoarding medical oxygen made against AAP legislators Priti Tomar and Praveen Kumar and file a status report. The high court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR on the allegations that politicians are able to procure in huge quantity and distribute Covid-19 medicines while patients were running from pillar to post to get them. The bench perused the status report of Delhi police which said that Gambhir had purchased 2,628 strips of Fabiflu on the prescription of Dr Manish of Sanjay Garg Hospital. While 2,343 strips were distributed to patients, remaining 285 strips were deposited with Delhi government’s Director General of Health Services for distribution, in view of the court’s earlier order. “The aspect which needs to be examined is how such a large quantity of Fabiflu was authorised to be purchased in retail as the medicine was in grave short supply at the relevant time.” “We would like you (drug controller) to tell us what enquiry you have done. Here there is a very clear case made out. Tell us under what provisions action is required to be taken and against whom,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Cops detain doctors waiting to meet Adityanath||Junior doctors waiting to meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was visiting their college, were allegedly bundled into police jeep and detained for four hours on Sunday in Jhansi. A video that has been widely shared on social media shows the police kicking and shoving some of the junior doctors. Dr Hardeep Jogi, president of the Resident Doctors’ Association of Maharani Laxmi Bai Medical College, Jhansi, said ministers kept visiting the medical college but did not address their problems. “This was the reason that we wanted to meet the chief minister. But his police attacked and detained us.” Denying that the doctors were manhandled, Andra Vamsi, district magistrate of Jhansi, told reporters: “We had stopped the doctors to maintain peace during the chief minister’s programme. We received their memorandum and promised to sort things out.” The doctors had no earlier plans of meeting the chief minister, Vamsi said. The action was taken so that there was no disruption in the chief minister’s programme, the district magistrate added. Vamsi said none of the junior doctors were arrested. In their memorandum, the doctors had asked that the administration officials behave well with them, that adequate Covid-19 medicines are available and that the college’s central library be kept open for 24 hours, sources said. “Around a dozen junior doctors were standing at the gate of the medical college to meet Adityanath. We wanted to request him to give us all PPE kits for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. We also wanted to tell him that there was no medicine for Covid-19 patients in the hospital. The college management and district officers threaten and harass us when we raise this issue,” a junior doctor who didn’t want to be identified told The Telegraph  over phone on Monday evening. The chief minister was visiting the hospital for a review meeting. “Suddenly, some senior police officers and constables reached the spot and started kicking us with their boots and pushing us towards a jeep. They took six of us to Prem Nagar police station and detained us for about four hours. They released us when the chief minister left the city. We are sure that the chief minister knew about the incident because some of us had written to him earlier that we wanted to meet him,” the junior doctor added. Subsequently, a meeting was held between the district magistrate and the principal of the medical college along with the junior doctors. The doctors were assured that their problems would be resolved soon. Reacting to the incident, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a Facebook post said: “The model of the UP government is to remain absent when needed, and indulge in false publicity, but arrest those who are in service of the public.” “They had gone to present their three demands before the chief minister,” she said. “Are these demands wrong?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||UP minister's brother appointed assistant professor under EWS quota||An Uttar Pradesh minister’s younger brother has been appointed assistant professor with a state-run university under the economically weaker section quota, sources in the higher education department said. The appointment of Arun Kumar Dwivedi, brother of basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi, has triggered controversy, with many — from retired policemen to Opposition politicians — questioning the award of the EWS certificate to him. Arun was previously a psychology teacher at a private school in Rajasthan and his wife is an assistant professor at a Bihar college, the sources said. They said the couple’s combined salary would easily surpass the income cut-off of Rs 8 lakh a year for the EWS quota. Arun’s appointment letter for the post of assistant professor of psychology at Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, was issued on May 21, the sources said. The university is in Siddharth Nagar district where his brother’s constituency of Itwa lies. “A person is entitled to an EWS certificate if their family income is less than Rs 8 lakh, they have less than five acres of land and their house is built on less than 1,000sqm. Arun and his family together have a much higher annual income and huge immovable properties spread across Itwa,” a source said. “They enjoy all the luxuries of life.” The source said Arun moves around in an Innova but couldn’t say in whose name the car is registered. Ownership of a four-wheeler rules one out of the EWS quota. Avinash Pratap, public relations officer at Siddharth University, said: “I don’t have any idea about the controversy. He has been appointed as assistant professor of psychology. He was already a teacher somewhere.” Arun confirmed the appointment had been made under the EWS quota. “I taught at Banasthali Vidyapith of Rajasthan before getting the new job. Nobody helped me when I was struggling. Everybody is after me now,” he told reporters. “I’m proud of my brother who is a minister, but it’s wrong to say anybody helped me get the job. The local administration issued the EWS certificate to me after a thorough inquiry.” Asked about his previous salary, his wife’s salary and the Innova car, he just laughed. Amitabh Thakur, retired IPS officer from the Uttar Pradesh cadre, has written to governor Anandiben Patel asking her to cancel the appointment and take legal action against Arun and whoever was involved in his securing an EWS certificate. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted in Hindi on Monday: “Uttar Pradesh ministers are not available to help the people during the pandemic but they don’t lag behind in grabbing an opportunity during the crisis.” She added: “The brother of UP’s basic education minister got appointed as assistant professor in the guise of a poor man. Lakhs of youths in UP are waiting for a job but those looking for an opportunity in the crisis have got it…. Will the chief minister take action against this conspiracy?” Siddharth University vice-chancellor Surendra Dubey, who got an extension the day before Arun’s appointment, said: “We are probing whether he got the job as an EWS candidate.” The minister refused comment when reporters approached him in Siddharth Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||SC asks Centre and states for national database on unorganised workers ||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and states to come out with a national database for unorganised workers to enable them to avail of various benefits like dry ration, as in the absence of such data the welfare measures do not percolate to them, especially during the present Covid-19 crisis. The apex court while passing a slew of directions, including setting up of community kitchens across the country for migrants, also asked the Centre and the states to create a suitable mechanism to monitor the implementation of the welfare schemes by the higher authorities. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah said in an order: “We also impress upon the central government and the state governments to complete the process of registration… at an early date so that unorganised workers are able to reap the benefit of different schemes of the Centre and the states, which without proper registration and identity card seems to be difficult to implement on the ground. “Learned SG (solicitor-general Tushar Mehta) may file a detailed affidavit with regard to above and as observed by us and a National Database for unorganised workers undertaken by the central government under the ministry of labour and employment with collaboration and coordination of the states should be completed at an early date. We grant two weeks’ time to Union of India to file an affidavit with the above regard.” “We are further of the view that there shall be suitable mechanism to monitor and supervise whether the benefits of the welfare schemes reach the beneficiaries which may be from grass root levels to higher authorities with names & places of beneficiaries so that the purposes for (which) such schemes are floated is achieved,” the bench added. The court passed the order while dealing with a batch of applications filed by social activists highlighting the pitiable state of lakhs of migrants facing untold hardship on account of the pandemic. It asked all states to file affidavits indicating the mechanism by which dry ration should be distributed to the migrant workers who do not possess a ration card. The states have to also respond on whether the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme of the Centre, which was implemented for giving dry ration to migrant workers in May and June last year, is to be revived again or some other scheme has to be utilised for this process. “We, thus, direct that migrant workers wherever stranded throughout the country should be provided the dry ration under the AtmaNirbhar scheme or any other scheme is found suitable by the States/Centre,” the bench said. The bench said it is also the responsibility of states/Union Territories to provide community kitchens to the stranded migrant workers, who have lost their employment and are in need of two meals a day. The bench said: “… we direct all the States/Union Territories to make operational the community kitchen to the stranded migrant workers wherever they may be situated in the country. There shall be wide publicity with respect to the various schemes including the places of community kitchens so that such needy persons may in fact take benefits.” However, on the issue of direct cash transfer to the migrants, the bench said the issue should be left to the discretion of the respective states/UTs and the court would not interfere in such policy matters. “… although few States have made schemes for direct cash transfer to construction workers and different amounts from Rs 1,000/- to Rs 6,000/- have been transferred but no such direct transfer scheme is in place with regard to other unorganised workers. “We are of the view that cash transfer is a matter of policy and scheme framed by each State/Union Territory and no direction for cash transfer can be issued by this Court to any category of person unless they are covered by any scheme formulated by the State/Union Territory,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
