26-05-2021||India||JEE-Advanced, scheduled for July 3, postponed amid Covid situation||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced scheduled for July 3 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, according to officials at IIT-Kharagpur, the institute which is conducting the exam this year. The exam is conducted for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology. "Considering the prevailing pandemic situation due to Covid-19, JEE (Advanced) 2021 which was scheduled to be held on July 3 stands postponed. The revised date of examination will be announced at an appropriate time," an official said. For the JEE-Advanced, the JEE-Mains is considered as a qualifying exam and it is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country. For admissions to IITs, apart from qualifying the JEE-Advanced, candidates are required to secure either minimum 75 per cent marks in their class 12 board exams or a rank among the top 20 percentile in their qualifying examinations. The requirement pertaining to class 12 scores has been waived in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. From this year, the JEE-Mains is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March, the next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. The April and May editions were postponed too after an exponential rise in Covid cases during the pandemic's second wave. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session, while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per a policy, after the February, March, April and May sessions of JEE-Mains-2021, the ranks of candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of their four scores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Yaas wreaks havoc in Bengal, Odisha; four dead||Cyclone 'Yaas', packing winds of up to 130-145 kmph, whipped the country's eastern coasts on Wednesday, dumping heavy rain, damaging houses and farmlands, and leaving at least four persons dead - three in Odisha and one in Bengal -- officials said. Thick sheets of rain blurred the vast coastline, as the cyclone made landfall around 9 am near Dhamra port in Odisha, with surging waters swamping the mud-and-thatch houses in the low-lying areas, where a massive evacuation drive has been undertaken to move more than 20 lakh people to safety. The storm, which had weakened during the afternoon, had left the coastal states on edge, with the Bengal government claiming that at least one crore people have been affected by the calamity thus far, as it hollered on its destructive path towards Jharkhand. 'Yaas' is the second cyclonic storm to hit India within a week after 'Tauktae' tore into its western coast, causing death and destruction. Odisha flooded, three dead Seawater inundated several villages in Bahanaga and Remuna blocks in the Balasore district, and Dhamra and Basudevpur in the Bhadrak district, Odisha's Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said. The administration, with the help of the locals, is taking measures to drain out the saline water from the villages, Jena explained. Heavy rainfall in the Simlipal National Park in Mayurbhanj district sparked fears of a flash flood in the Budhabalanga river. By afternoon, the water level in the river stood at 21 metre against the danger level of 27 metre, the special relief commissioner said. Local sources said two persons were killed - one each in Keonjhar and Balasore -- after trees fell on them, but there was no official confirmation yet. Another elderly woman in Mayurbhanj reportedly died after her house collapsed. Restoration work for power lines have started in several places of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Jajpur districts after cables snapped, Jena said, adding that the storm will likely move to Jharkhand by midnight. Odisha has shifted 5.8 lakh people to safer places, and Bengal 15 lakh, ahead of the cyclone, amid concerns over spread of Covid-19 infection at the temporary shelters, given the fact that the country is battling the raging second wave of the pandemic. Bengal ‘worst-affected’ says Mamata Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has claimed that her state is the "worst-affected", pointing out that three lakh houses and 134 embankments have been damaged due to the cyclone. She also said that one person, who was initially rescued, died "accidentally" later. Mamata further stated that relief materials worth Rs 10 crore have been to the affected areas. The scenic town of Digha in East Midnapore, which shares a border with Balasore district of Odisha, lay swamped, with the Army being called in for rescue operations, a defence official said. Parts of the nearby tourist towns of Mandarmani, Tajpur and Shankarpur were also inundated, with sea waters entering the hotels and residential areas, besides causing damage to kutcha shops and houses. In certain areas, the waves were seen surging as high as the coconut trees that line the popular beaches. A school, situated along the coast in Shankarpur, was washed away by the high and mighty sea waves. The Army has deployed 17 columns in Bengal to assist the administration, the defence official said. Rescue operation by the Army was also underway at Orphuli in the Howrah district, he added. In South 24 Parganas, hundreds of villagers were displaced in Kakdwip, Fraserganj, Gosaba and the Sunderbans region, as multiple homes were extensively damaged in the surging water and gale winds, officials said. Several rivers were in spate owing to the phenomenal rise in water level -- caused by the dual effect of storm surge and the astronomical tide due to the full moon. Flooding was also reported from Sagar island at the confluence of Hooghly and Bay of Bengal. The compound of much-revered Kapil Muni Temple in Sagar Islands lay submerged, as tidal waves, as tall as five feet, crashed over the boardwalks. Some fishing boats and equipment were destroyed at harbours in Kakdwip, leaving the fishermen devoid of their livelihood. "We will starve unless the government provides us with assistance," said a hapless villager at Kakdwip as his boat lay ravaged in front of him. The Calcutta Port was on tenterhooks as Hooghly swelled to eight metres, surpassing the heights of the external lock gate of the Haldia Dock System, an official said. Water-logging was also reported from certain low-lying areas of Calcutta with the authorities facing a tough time clearing the area due to high tide in Hooghly, they said. Rescue ops underway Rescue operations are underway in Odisha and Bengal and teams are clearing a large number of uprooted electric poles and trees to keep roads open in these states which were hit by cyclone Yaas, a National Disaster Response Force official said. "It (Yaas) is very likely to move north-westwards across interior Odisha and weaken gradually," a spokesperson for the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said. He said the force has evacuated thousands of people to safer places in close coordination with local administrations in both states. "Rescue operations are still continuing as a large number of trees and electric poles are uprooted after the cyclone hit the land," the spokesperson said. "The teams are removing them from roads to keep communication lines clear and this process is still on. Rescuers are making all out efforts to bring normalcy in the affected areas," he said. Warnings for Bengal, Odisha The weather office has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in East and West Midnapore districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 Parganas districts over the next 24 hours. Heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, Purba Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts owing to the effect of 'Yaas', the weather office said. In Odisha, a red warning for heavy to very heavy rainfall was issued in nine districts. "Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy fall very likely to occur over the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Dhenkanal," the weather office said. The cyclone lay centred at about 15 kilometre west of Balasore at 1.30 pm with the intensity of 100-110 kmph, gusting to 120 kmph. It would move north-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm during the next six hours, the weatherman said. Midnight cyclone in Jharkhand Jharkhand, which is already on high alert, continued evacuating low-lying areas during the day amid a forecast that the cyclone would be hitting the state by midnight, officials in Ranchi said. Evacuations are being carried out on war-footing in the vulnerable areas of East and West Singhbhum, besides some other districts, in view of the natural calamity, Disaster Management Secretary Amitabh Kaushal told PTI. East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts of the state are likely to experience "very high seas", with wind speed of 92-117 kmph, the weather office said. "We are ready to deal with the situation and have formed rescue teams," Jharkhand Director-General of Police Neeraj Sinha stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Report status of compliance with new IT rules, Centre tells social media giants||The government on Wednesday asked large social media platforms to immediately report their status of compliance with the new digital rules. In a note to 'significant social media intermediaries', the IT Ministry said the additional due diligence required from such large digital platforms has come into effect from Wednesday. The ministry has sought details and contact information of Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person who have been appointed by digital platforms under the new social media rules, as per the note seen by PTI. "As you, including your parent company or any other subsidiary, provide a variety of services in India some of which falls within the definition of SSMIs (significant social media intermediaries) in the context of the IT Act and the aforesaid Rules. Accordingly, as part of ascertaining the compliance to these Rules, you are requested to provide the following information...," the ministry said. Apart from details such as the name of the app, website and service falling within the scope of a significant social media intermediary, the ministry has sought details of the three key personnel, as well as the physical contact address of the platform in India. It has asked the platforms to report on their status of compliance with the new rules. "If you are not considered as SSMI, please provide the reasons for the same including the registered users on each of the services provided by you. The Government reserves the right to seek any additional information, as may be permitted within these Rules and the IT Act," it said. The ministry has asked large social media companies to confirm and share their response at the earliest "and preferably today itself". The new rules require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. The new rules require them to take down any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a robust mechanism to respond to complaints. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Will only trace WhatsApp messages to probe ‘very serious’ offences, explains Centre||The government on Wednesday said it respects the right to privacy and the requirement of tracing the origin of flagged messages under the new IT rules is for prevention and investigation of "very serious offences" related to the sovereignty of India or public order. In a statement, the IT Ministry termed WhatsApp's last moment challenge to the intermediary guidelines as an unfortunate attempt to prevent norms from coming into effect. The UK, US, Australia, New Zealand and Canada require social media firms to allow for legal interception, it said, adding, "What India is asking for is significantly much less than what some of the other countries have demanded." "Therefore, WhatsApp's attempt to portray the Intermediary Guidelines of India as contrary to the right to privacy is misguided," the official statement said. The government recognises that 'Right to Privacy' is a fundamental right and is committed to ensure the same to its citizens, it said. The statement further added that IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has stated that the government "is committed to ensure the Right of Privacy to all its citizens but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the government to maintain law and order and ensure national security." Prasad also stated that "none of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact." "The Government respects the Right of Privacy and has no intention to violate it when WhatsApp is required to disclose the origin of a particular message. "Such requirements are only in case when the message is required for prevention, investigation or punishment of very serious offences related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, or public order, or of incitement to an offence relating to the above or in relation with rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material," the statement said. The Centre's response comes after WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court challenging the government's new digital rules, arguing that the requirement for the company to provide access to encrypted messages will break privacy protections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Lancet panel proposes 8 recommendations for Covid management||A Lancet panel of experts on India on Wednesday proposed central systems for the procurement and distribution of free Covid vaccines, part of an eight-point charter of recommendations to curtail the loss of life and suffering caused by the coronavirus resurgence in the country. The Lancet Citizens' Commission on Reimagining India's Health System, which comprises 21 experts including virologist Gagandeep Kang and Narayana Hrudalaya chairperson Devi Shetty, was launched in December last year. In an article published in the British medical journal, the commission put forward eight urgent recommendations for the Centre and state governments. These include a transparent pricing policy and cash transfers by the state to workers in the informal sector. Among the key points is the establishment of central systems to procure and distribute COVID-19 vaccines free of cost, a departure from the current policy of decentralised procurement through state governments. Such an approach would optimise prices and minimise cross-state inequities that may result from differential fiscal and capacity contexts, the 21 authors wrote in the article. These recommendations are focused on the immediate steps central and state governments must take to help curtail the loss of life and suffering caused by Covid-19 amid the recent surge in cases, the Commission said. The Commission also recommended that district-level working groups should have the autonomy to respond to rapidly changing local situations and must be empowered to receive funds and resources to coordinate efforts across all sectors of the health system, from front-line workers to tertiary care. Other recommendations include a transparent national pricing policy and caps on the prices of all essential health services, wide dissemination of evidence-based information on the management of COVID-19, and marshalling all available human resources across sectors of the health system, including the private sector, for effective response to the disease. Besides, the panel proposed active collaboration between government and civil society organisations to create and disseminate accurate information, enabling home-based care, emphasising prevention, helping navigate access to life-saving treatment, and promoting vaccination. Another recommendation is transparency in government data collection and modelling to enable districts to proactively prepare for likely caseloads in the coming weeks. Finally, the commission recommended minimising the profound suffering and risk to health caused by loss of livelihoods by making provisions for cash transfers by the state to workers in India's vast informal economy who have lost their jobs . There is still time to stem the haemorrhage of life and the suffering caused by COVID-19 in India, the authors wrote. We call on the central and state governments to act with urgency and in solidarity with each other and across sectors to address one of the greatest humanitarian crises facing the country since its independence, they added. The commission was launched to map the pathway to achieving universal health coverage (UHC) in India in the coming decade through a participatory, solutions-driven approach. Besides Kang, who is professor at the Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore, and Shetty, the panel also includes Vikram Patel, professor, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson and founder of Biocon Limited and Yamini Aiyar, chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||NDRF rescues 10 in Odisha in heroic act||The NDRF, together with the district administration of Jagatsinghpur in Odisha, has rescued 10 people from a river after their boat capsized, amid rough weather conditions under the influence of cyclone 'Yaas'. In a video tweeted by the Jagatsinghpur district collector, rescue personnel on Tuesday night can be seen holding on to an inflatable boat as people disembarked. "Fantastic work by NDRF and BDO, Erasama during #CycloneYaas rescuing 10 people in the late night from a river after their boat capsized," the Jagatsinghpur district collector Sangram K Mohapatra tweeted on Wednesday. He further said that the arduous operation was carried out in the midst of light drizzle and 45-kmph wind speed. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has also lauded the rescue effort. "Appreciate the quick response from the team of @NDRFHQ and Erasama BDO to rescue 10 people from a capsized boat in the river, during a courageous night time rescue operation," Patnaik tweeted. "Such bravery is indeed praiseworthy," he added. Cyclone 'Yaas' made its landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, according to Doppler radar data. Several places, including Odisha's Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts, and neighbouring West Bengal's Kanthi, Diamond harbour, Basirhat, Tamluk, Uluberia are expected to experience ingress of the storm surge. Yaas weakened into a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday afternoon after pounding the beach towns in north Odisha and neighbouring West Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge even as the two eastern states battled the COVID crisis, officials said. Yaas, which was earlier classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, hit the coast north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9 am, they said. The landfall process was over around 1.30 pm, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal takes charge as new CBI director||IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on Wednesday took charge as director of the CBI, officials said. Jaiswal is a 1985-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre. He was till now serving as the chief of the CISF. He has also served as Maharashtra's director general of police in the past. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was working without a regular chief for over three months after Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his two-year tenure on February 3. CBI Additional Director Praveen Sinha, a 1988-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre, was appointed the acting chief of the agency after Shukla completed his tenure. Jaiswal has been appointed as the director of CBI for a period of two years, the ministry order said. A three-member selection committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Monday shortlisted Jaiswal's name. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are the two members of the panel. During the meeting, Chowdhury had objected to the process of selection of officers for the coveted post. "The way the procedure was followed, it was in conflict with the mandate of the committee. On 11th (May), I was given 109 names and today (Monday) by 1 pm, 10 names were shortlisted and by 4 pm, six names were shortlisted. This casual approach of DoPT (department of personnel and training) is highly objectionable," Chowdhury had told PTI. The appointment assumes significance as the Supreme Court is hearing a petition filed by an NGO, Common Cause, on the delay in the appointment of a regular CBI chief. The Centre had last month told the Supreme Court that the meeting of the selection committee for the appointment of the CBI director would be convened immediately after May 2. On April 5, the apex court had asked the Centre to consider convening the meeting before May 2 observing that "in-charge arrangements" for the post cannot go on. The petitioner has alleged that the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act. The plea has also sought a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI director well in advance, at least one to two months before the date on which the vacancy to the post is about to occur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Security camps at remote places in Bastar keeping Naxalites at bay||The strategy of establishing security camps in affected areas embraced by the security forces in Bastar District has limited the Naxals in a restricted area. Out of these camps, most of them were set-up in inaccessible and remote areas, where development remained secluded. However, with the advent of these camps, the recent construction of roads is visibly noticeable. Not only did it lead to decongestion of traffic and improved, accessible reach of governance schemes to the last person of the interiors of the left wing extremist (LWE) district, it has also revamped the landscape of Bastar. Securing a befitting reply to the Bastar Naxalites, the security forces had decided to establish their security camps in interiors of dense forests and previously unapproachable mountainous areas. These camps have been set-up after perusing a careful chalked out strategy where each camp can have access to others in times of distress. The manifold growth of security forces has proved to be a setback for the Naxal movement. These security camps have rapidly paved a way for development of roads, bridges, culverts and other infrastructural facilities which in turn led to faster access to developmental schemes. Apart from that, the grievances of farfetched villages are reaching the District administration now at a prompt pace. This has further improved the grievance resolving mechanism of the district. It has also led to spontaneity in upgradation of basic facilities including medical, health, drinking water and electricity. The District has strengthened the war against malnutrition, malaria and seasonal diseases through active campaigns. However, since the progress of Bastar is being looked as a hurdle by Naxalites, they are regressively opposing these camps. These camps are often being ambushed. The Naxalites have even attempted to create misunderstanding among the native villagers and trick them to go against the security forces. Bastar had witnessed a surge in naxal movement due to the lack of communication and dialogue between villagers and the District Administration. Nevertheless, with the establishment of these camps- various new avenues of communication and dialogue are being opened leading to a constructive partnership between the villagers and the administration.  Moreover, the forest dwellers of Bastar region have lately witnessed increased income from forests, farming and allied activities. In comparison to other progressive farmers of various regions of Chhattisgarh, Bastar villagers are getting satisfactory prices. Besides, availing facilities akin to Forest Right Lease, they are also being supported with pond construction, dabri construction, manure-seeds and alike activities. The development of infrastructural projects after the establishment of security camps has put an end to the concept of middlemen in sale-purchase transactions of forest produce and agricultural activities. The villagers now sell their produce directly at the support price fixed by the Government. The sick and disaster-stricken individuals in the region are coming forward and availing health facilities. This has also pushed for educational reforms. Those schools which were shut by Naxalites in various parts of Bastar division are now hosting and reorganizing educational sessions through virtual mode. Bastar's development has now become a promising story paving way for new possibilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||IMS AND SUM Hospital gets NABH certification||The Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, faculty of medicine of Siksha 'O' Anusandhan (SOA), has received an accreditation from National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). The prestigious accreditation, which came into force with effect from May 13, 2021 will continue for four years. NABH is a constituent board of the Quality Council of India. IMS and SUM Hospital, a private medical facility located in Bhubaneshwar, has received NABH accreditation for the second time. The Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital is one of the top rated medical schools in Odisha and in India, with its own multispeciality hospital that has nearly 2,000 beds. The institute gained permission in 2007 from the Medical Council of India to start the MBBS courses in the medical stream. It offers 38 courses as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Delhi government in talk with Sputnik V makers, will get supply soon, says Kejriwal||As Delhi grapples with a shortage of coronavirus vaccines, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the makers of Sputnik V will supply anti-Covid jabs to the city but the quantity is yet to be decided. He also said there were around 620 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in Delhi, but Amphotericin-B injections used in its treatment are in short supply. "Talks with the makers of Sputnik V are on. They will give us vaccines, but the quantity is yet to be decided. Our officials and the representatives of the manufacturers met on Tuesday, too," the CM told reporters at the launch of Delhi's first drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall in Dwarka. The Centre has asked states to procure vaccines from the international market, but no state government has been able to purchase even "one additional vaccine" so far, he said. "All state governments have tried everything, they have (floated) global tenders and talked to all vaccine-manufacturers. All firms have declined to talk to us," he said. The Centre needs to demonstrate a sense of urgency and run the vaccination drive on a war-footing, he added. He said it is the Central government's responsibility to procure vaccines. "Today, we are at war against Covid-19, wherein the Centre and states have their share of responsibilities. The Centre cannot shirk its responsibility and ask states to fend for themselves. It is wrong," he said. "It is something like Pakistan declaring a war on India and then they ask if Delhi has manufactured a nuclear bomb and Uttar Pradesh bought a tank...It is the Central government's responsibility to procure and supply vaccines. Delhi can be held accountable if they (the Centre) give us vaccines and we do not open up centres," a visibly angry Kejriwal said. Asked if the Delhi government is going to lift the lockdown, he said, "A lockdown cannot be extended indefinitely. It has hit economic activity and businesses. We will decide how to go about reopening." While extending the ongoing lockdown till May 31, Kejriwal had on Saturday said his government will start the unlock process from next week if Covid cases keep declining. The CM also said that anti-Covid shots manufactured by Moderna and Pfizer are both suitable for children and the Central government should procure these vaccines in a large number to vaccinate them. The CM also said that a government-run drive-through vaccination centre is likely to be launched at Chhatrasal on Saturday. "Many more drive-through vaccination centres will be opened up soon, but the shortage of vaccines is a major issue. The inoculation drive has slowed down. Many vaccination centres have been shut not just in Delhi, but the entire country," he said. India was among the first countries to manufacture a vaccine for Covid-19, but "we are six months behind others because we did not make a plan in time for mass vaccination, distribution and to ramp up production", he said. "Forget what has happened, but there is no sense of urgency even now. All vaccines available in the international market can still be given approval for use in India within 24 hours," the chief minister added. The drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall is an initiative by the Delhi government and Southwest Delhi District Magistrate, a hospital spokesperson said. Akash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital has procured 30,000 Covishield doses for inoculation of the 18-44 age group at the centre, an official said. "We will go slow at the starting to avoid rush on the road and administer 40 to 50 doses for the initial few days," DM Naveen Aggarwal said. The number of doses administered per day will be increased gradually to around 300 per day, he said. Kejriwal had earlier said his government has written to Dr Reddy's Laboratories for the supply of around 67 lakh doses of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's Laboratories launched Sputnik V in India on May 14. Delhi had recorded 156 Covid fatalities on Tuesday, the lowest since April 16, while 1,568 new cases were reported as the positive rate dipped to a nearly two-month low of 2.14 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin. It was the third day in a row that the daily cases in the national capital remained below 2,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||CM Bhupesh Baghel launches ‘super compost manure’||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has launched a high-quality ‘super compost manure’, produced from the cow dung procured under Godhan Nyay Yojana in gauthans of the state. Farmers can get this super compost fertilizer from cooperative societies at a discounted rate in bags of 02 kg, 05 kg and 30 kg at the price of Rs 6/ kg. Along with vermi compost, the cow dung procured is also being utilized for production of super compost manure in the Gauthans. On the occasion, Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel also transferred a dividend amount of Rs. 3.06 crore to gauthan committees and women self-help groups. Members of the cabinet, including Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Dr. Charan Das Mahant were present on the occasion. Notably, Baghel launched Godhan Nyaya Yojana on July 20, 2020 with the objective of promoting livestock conservation, organic farming, additional income sources for villagers, livestock farmers and farmers in the state. Under this scheme, cow dung is being procured at the rate of Rs. 2/ kg in gauthans, which is then being utilized for production of vermi compost and other products by women groups. So far, over 47 lakh quintal of cow dung has been purchased in 5,586 Gothans in the state, in lieu of which Rs 95.3 crore has been paid to the cow dung vendors. So far,  2.2 lakh quintal of vermi compost manure and 1.2 lakh quintal of fertilizer has been sold to farmers and government departments. Now super compost fertilizer is also being prepared by women self-help groups in gauthans. So far, self-help groups have received an income of over Rs 18 crore from various income oriented activities conducted in gauthans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Ramdev served defamation notice by IMA over controversial comments||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has served a defamation notice on Ramdev for alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic doctors, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it will demand compensation of Rs 1,000 crore from the yoga televangelist. The six-page notice served on behalf of IMA (Uttarakhand) secretary Ajay Khanna by his lawyer Neeraj Pandey describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and around 2,000 practitioners of it who are part of the association. Terming the remarks of the yoga televangelist a "criminal act" under section of 499 of the Indian Penal Code, the notice demanded a written apology from him within 15 days of its receipt, saying a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore will be demanded from him at the rate of Rs 50 lakh per member of the IMA if he failed to do so. The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on the social media platforms where he had uploaded his earlier video levelling them. It further asked the yoga televangelist to withdraw a "misleading" advertisement from all platforms endorsing "Coronil kit", a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for COVID-19, failing which an FIR and a criminal case will be lodged against him by the IMA. On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for COVID-19". The remarks were met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. A day later, he posed 25 questions to the IMA in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes. He went on to list modern day ailments such as Parkinson's disease and wondered if allopathy had any painless cure to treat infertility as well as to reverse ageing and increase hemoglobin. Soon after, Ramdev's close aide Acharya Balkrishna took to Twitter, saying the yoga televangelist and Ayurveda were being targeted by allopathic practitioners under the IMA as part of a conspiracy. "As part of the conspiracy to convert the entire country into #Christianity, #Yoga and #Ayurveda are being maligned by targeting @yogrishiramdev jee. Countrymen, wake up now from the deep slumber otherwise the generations to come will not forgive you," Balkrishna said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Modi stresses on the need to get inoculated to save lives, defeat Covid||Describing COVID-19 as a "once-in-a-lifetime" pandemic that has brought tragedy and sufferings at doorsteps of many and caused huge economic impact, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the planet will not be the same after this and the events in future will be remembered as either pre or post-Covid. Delivering the keynote address on the occasion of "Vesak Global Celebrations" on Buddha Purnima, Modi noted that the pandemic has impacted every nation but added that there have been many noteworthy developments which strengthen our strategy to fight it. "Most importantly, we have the vaccine which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic," he said, asserting that the emergence of jabs within a year of the COVID-19 outbreak shows the power of human determination and tenacity. India is proud of its scientists for developing vaccines, Modi said, and also saluted healthcare and frontline workers for risking their lives to save others. Offering condolences to those who have suffered and lost near and dear ones in the pandemic, the prime minister said he grieved with them. In COVID-19, the humanity has faced its worst crisis in decades and has not seen a pandemic like this for a century, he said. On the occasion, Modi also highlighted the issues of climate change and terrorism, saying one must not lose sight of the other challenges faced by humanity while fighting the pandemic. With the prime ministers of Nepal and Sri Lanka and the secretary general of International Buddhist Confederation in attendance at the virtual event, Modi gave a call for all those who believe in humanity to come together and defeat terrorism and radicalisation. The life of Gautama Buddha was about peace, harmony and co-existence, he noted, adding that there are still forces whose existence depends on spreading hate, terror and mindless violence. Such forces do not believe in liberal democratic principles, he added, according to a statement. Referring to the issue of climate change, Modi said the reckless lifestyle of the present generation is threatening future generations, and said our planet should not remain wounded. Buddha's emphasis was on a way of life where respect for mother mature is paramount, he said, highlighting that India is among the few large economies to be on track to achieve their Paris targets. For India, sustainable living is not only about right words but also about right actions, he said. Modi said Lord Buddha devoted his life to removing human suffering and noted that in the last one year, several individuals and organisations rose to the occasion and did everything possible to reduce human suffering during the pandemic. Generous contributions of equipment and materials were made by Buddhist organisations and followers of Lord Buddha from around the world, he said, adding these actions are in line with his teachings of "blessings, compassion and welfare of all".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against Centre over new IT rules||WhatsApp has filed a lawsuit in Delhi High Court challenging the government's new digital rules saying the requirement for the company to provide access to encrypted messages will break privacy protections. The petition, filed on Tuesday evening, seeks declaring the rule requiring the message service provider to identify the first originator of any message flagged as a violation of privacy rights provided by the constitution. A company spokesperson confirmed filing the petition. "Requiring messages to trace chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people's right to privacy," the spokesperson said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users." The petition came just as the new digital rules kicked in. Non-compliance with the rules could take away legal protection of social media companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and WhatsApp for user content posted on their platforms. They previously enjoyed immunity for content posted by any third party user on their platforms. The new rule requires them to take down content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a mechanism to respond to complaints. Social media platforms are also required to use automated processes to take down pornography. "We will also continue to engage with the Government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us," WhatsApp spokesperson said. The new rules, announced on February 25, require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules, would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action, in case of complaints. 'Significant social media intermediaries' - defined as those with over 50 lakh registered users - were given three months time to comply with the additional requirements. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp. Facebook and Google on Tuesday had said they are working towards meeting the compliance requirements for the new guidelines. India is a large market for these digital platforms. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram subscribers, while 1.75 crore account holders of microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Punjab farmers hoist black flag atop houses to mark six months of protest against agri laws||Farmers at several places in Punjab put up black flags atop their houses on Wednesday, joining a 'black day' call given by protesting farmer unions to mark six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the Centre's three contentious farm laws. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also raised a black flag at his house in Badal village in Muktsar district and urged the Central government to accept the demand of protesting farmers. In Haryana too, state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has appealed farmers to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles to register their protest. Several political parties including the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party have extended their support to the farmers' call of observing the day as 'black day'. Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had announced that farmers will observe May 26 as 'black day' to mark the completion of six months of their protest. At some places in Punjab, farmers also took out a protest march carrying black flags and raising slogans against the Union government. Similar protests were also reported from a few places in neighbouring Haryana. "Six months have passed since the farmers' protest at Delhi borders against the three farm legislations began," said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, slamming the Central government for not scrapping the legislations. Pandher and Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that besides hoisting black flags at houses and vehicles, effigies of the BJP-led Union government will also be burnt. Farmer bodies have appealed to all sections including the labourers, the youth, the jobless, traders and shopkeepers to raise black flags at their homes, shops and industrial establishments. They have also asked people to put up black flags on their cars, motorbikes, tractors, trucks and other vehicles. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted, "As #KisanAndolan completes 6 months today, I again urge the Centre to deal compassionately with farmers & repeal the black laws. Have hoisted a #BlackFlag atop my Badal residence today & likewise @Akali_Dal_ leaders & workers have done the same observing #Black_Day_Of_Farmers." Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had on Tuesday once again urged the central government to restart the dialogue process with protesting farmers. "The farmers' movement near Delhi's borders has completed six months and a large number of farmers have left their families and are sitting at the borders. In such a situation, I again urge the government to hold talks with protesting farmers with a positive mindset," he had said in a statement. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three Central legislations. A government panel had met farmer leaders on January 22. There has been no talks between the two sides since January 26 when the farmers' tractor rally in the national capital turned violent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||India adds over 2.08 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,157 casualties in a day||India on Wednesday reported 2,08,921 COVID-19 infections, pushing the overall tally of cases to 2,71,57,795, as the country conducted 22,17,320 coronavirus tests, its highest-ever in a day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll also climbed to 3,11,388 with 4,157 fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 22,17,320 tests, the highest in a day, were conducted on Tuesday taking the cumulative number so far in the country to 33,48,11,496, while the daily positivity declined to 9.42 per cent, the ministry said. This is the second day in a row that the case positivity rate has remained below 10 per cent, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also declined to 11.45 per cent. The updated data showed that the number of active cases have further come down to 24,95,591, with a net decline of 91,191 in a span of 24 hours. The active cases now constituting 9.19 per cent of the total infections. The data also showed that 2,95,955 patients recovered from the virus in a span of 24 hours, pushing the total recoveries so far to 2,43,50,816. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.66 per cent, it showed. The case fatality rate was 1.15 per cent, the data showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4. The 4,157 new fatalities include 1,137 from Maharashtra, 588 from Karnataka, 468 from Tamil Nadu, 177 from Kerala , 174 from Punjab, 157 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 156 from Delhi, 128 from Haryana, 106 from Andhra Pradesh, 105 from Rajasthan and 104 from Bihar, according to the ministry data. A total of 3,11,388 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 90,349 from Maharashtra, 26,399 from Karnataka, 23,565 from Delhi, 21,340 from Tamil Nadu, 19,519 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,674 from West Bengal, 13,642 from Punjab and 12,723 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities or preexisting health conditions. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall with wind speed of 130-140 kmph||The landfall process of very severe cyclonic storm Yaas began at 9 am on Wednesday near the Dhamra port in Odisha's Bhadrak district, an official said. The location of the landfall is north of Dhamra and south of Bahanaga, close to Bahanaga block, on the coast, around 50 km of Balasore, he said. The wind speed during landfall was at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, as per Doppler radar data. "The landfall process has begun and will take three- four hours to complete. The maximum impact will be in Balasore and Bhadrak districts," Odisha's Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said. Around 5.80 lakh people have been shifted to safe shelters, he said. Landfall process delayed The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier predicted that the wind speed during the landfall would be around 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The landfall process was delayed for some hours with the system's velocity decreasing to 12 kmph from 15-16 kmph, Jena said. The cyclone did not intensify any further after 2 am, he said. "Since there has been a fall in intensification, the wind speed was around 130-140 kmph at the time of landfall instead of 165 kmph," he said. There was no report of any major damage though some incidents of trees getting uprooted have taken place, he added. Embankments breached In West Bengal, the coastal areas in East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas were inundated owing to storm surge, officials in Kolkata said. Several embankments, including 51 in East Midnapore, have been breached as the water level in the rivers in the coastal areas rose, they said. Calcutta woke up to strong winds gusting up to 60km per hour, accompanied by heavy rain, around 6.30am -7.00am. By 11am, the rain had subsided, but winds continued to pelt the  city. Even the sun peeped out of the skies for a while. The city is likely to receive consistent rain throughout Wednesday, with one or two heavy spells, said a Met official. The maximum wind speed in the coastal resort town of Digha in East Midnapore reached around 90 km per hour. It was 68 kmph at Fraserganj in South 24 Parganas, and in Kolkata, the highest wind speed was recorded at 62 kmph. Several low-lying areas in South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore were inundated owing to high tidal waves. The areas in south Bengal also received a good amount of rainfall since Tuesday night. High-tide warning The Met department also warned of tidal waves of two- four metres height above astronomical tide to inundate low- lying coastal areas of East Midnapore, and of two metres above astronomical tide in low-lying areas of South 24 Parganas. Most parts of Odisha also received rains, said Umashankar Dash, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar. Chandbali in Bhadrak district received 273 mm rainfall, the highest amount of rainfall in the last 24 hours in the state, followed by Paradip (197 mm), Balasore (51 mm) Bhubaneswar (49 mm). The IMD has forecast massive storm surge for some places like Mohanpur in Bhadrak where the seawater may ingress 9 km into the land. Dash said that surge of 1.5 metre to 3.8 metre is likely in the area when the wind speed hits a peak during landfall. The reason behind such a high storm surge is also partially due to full-moon activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Narada: CBI withdraws petition challenging house arrest of four Bengal politicians||The CBI has withdrawn from the Supreme Court a petition challenging the house arrest of four Bengal politicians in the Narada case on a day the apex court raised several questions about related events in Calcutta High Court. The following are the key observations made by the Supreme Court bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Bhushan Ramkrishna Gavai on Tuesday: ⚫ Should Calcutta High Court have decided late at night to stay the bail granted to the four accused (ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee)? “We have seen special hearings to deal with personal liberty. But this is the first time we are seeing that they are being used to take away liberty,” Justice Gavai said. On May 17, a Calcutta High Court bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had started hearing the CBI plea at 8.20pm. By then, the trial court had granted interim bail to the four accused who were arrested by the CBI in the morning. The high court hearing continued till 9.45pm and the order staying the interim bail was pronounced at 10.30pm. ⚫ Can only those chargesheeted tamper with evidence, and not the other accused who are yet to be charged? “There are two sets of accused, one against whom chargesheet is filed and one against whom chargesheet is not filed. Who has the ability to tamper with the evidence?” the apex court bench asked. The top court did not take any names. The CBI is yet to chargesheet Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, two other accused who are now in the BJP. Three of the arrested leaders are with Trinamul while the fourth, Chatterjee, had distanced himself from the BJP just before the elections. ⚫ Justice Gavai observed that he had never come across an instance when such a split verdict had been passed by a bench while dealing with a bail. Either bail is granted or denied. But the order is always unanimous, Justice Gavai said, to which Justice Saran agreed. Justice Gavai is scheduled to become the Chief Justice of India on May 14, 2025. In Calcutta High Court, Justice Bindal was against granting bail while the brother judge, Justice Arijit Banerjee, was in favour of bail. Following the difference of opinion, a five-judge bench is now looking into the issue. ⚫ Justice Gavai refused to buy the argument of solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, that the special CBI court had initially granted bail to the accused because of a siege of the court premises by the state law minister and Trinamul workers. “We feel that our judiciary, including our district judiciary, cannot be influenced by mobs. We don’t want to demoralise our judiciary across the country,” the Supreme Court bench said. Justice Gavai recalled his own experience as a high court judge in the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court while dealing with a rape case. Justice Gavai recounted: “We also have been tried to be pressurised. I was hearing an anticipatory bail plea in Aurangabad in 2013 and some mahila morcha people had gathered in large numbers. The city police commissioner met me and requested that I should not pass any orders in the open court, saying that otherwise there would be a law and order problem. I told the police commissioner ‘I will pass the order in the open court. Law and order is your duty.’” ⚫ Justice Gavai hastened to add that the bench, by no stretch of the imagination, was approving the alleged conduct of the chief minister at the CBI office or the law minister leading a mob to the special CBI court that granted bail to the four accused. “We are making it very clear that we don’t approve the dharnas. But if the chief minister or the law minister takes law into their hands, should the accused be made to suffer? You can proceed against those persons who have taken the law into their hands,” Justice Gavai said. He added: “We don’t want to mix the issue of personal liberty of citizens with the illegal acts of some politicians.” As the top court gave enough indication that it would not interfere with the ongoing hearing by the five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court, the CBI sought to withdraw its special leave petition challenging the high court order to free the accused from judicial custody and put them under house arrest. The Supreme Court granted the plea and clarified that it was not making any observations or orders on the merits of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Fugitive Mehul Choksi disappears mysteriously from Antigua||Mehul Choksi, the fugitive diamantaire and uncle of Nirav Modi, has disappeared mysteriously from Antigua where he had sought refuge in January 2018 after being accused of defrauding Punjab National Bank of close to Rs 5,000 crore through fake credit instruments. Choksi, the 62-year-old former chairperson and MD of Gitanjali Gems, went missing on Sunday from the Caribbean island where he had obtained citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in November 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme — possibly in anticipation of his flight from justice. Nirav Modi and Choksi, his maternal uncle, were embroiled in the Rs 14,000-crore PNB fraud case that came to light in February 2018. Reports from Antigua say Choksi disappeared on Sunday evening from Jolly Harbour, which has a large marina and is popular with expatriates who live in the island’s gated communities. He was last seen around 5.15pm on Sunday before leaving home in a car that has since been recovered. A missing report was filed with Johnson Point police station, reports in Antiguan newspapers said but it could not be ascertained whether he had masterminded another audacious getaway. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said in Mumbai that his family members were worried and anxious after his disappearance. They were apparently unaware of his whereabouts. Some reports have speculated that Choksi may have fled to Cuba where he owns property. Neither Antigua nor Cuba has an extradition treaty with India. Choksi’s mysterious disappearance comes at a time the Indian government is close to clinching the extradition of Nirav Modi who has virtually exhausted all his legal options as he sits in Wandsworth prison in south-west London. The uncle-nephew nexus had together defrauded PNB in connivance with rogue officials of the bank at its Brady House branch in Mumbai. Three Choksi-owned entities were sucked into the fraud: Gitanjali Gems, Gili India and Nakshatra Brands, all of which have since shuttered operations. The Indian government has often been able to strike clandestine deals with countries to secure the extradition of fugitives — the most recent being the one it negotiated with the UAE to seek the return of Christian Michel, the British businessman implicated in the Westland helicopter scam. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said in 2019 that Choksi’s citizenship would be revoked and he would be extradited after he had exhausted all his legal options. There have been virtually no reports to indicate any progress of the extradition process in Antigua and whether these were being aggressively pursued. Some reports have suggested that an Antiguan court had revoked his citizenship recently but his lawyer denied such a development. In contrast, every twist and turn of the extradition process in the UK relating to Nirav Modi has been covered extensively in the media. The CBI chargesheet against Choksi had claimed that bank officials at PNB’s Brady House branch in Mumbai had issued 143 fake letters of understanding (LoUs) and 224 foreign letters of credit with a validity of 360 days, flouting Reserve Bank of India rules that capped the validity of credit for the import of semi-precious and precious stones including pearls at no more than 90 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||CJI cites rule,  Asthana and Y.C. Modi out of CBI chief race||Two senior IPS officers considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi got removed from the race for the CBI chief’s post after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana cited a Supreme Court guideline to rule out their candidature, government sources said on Tuesday. CJI Ramana is said to have pointed out that according to the apex court’s guidelines in the 2006 Prakash Singh case, no officer with less than six months of service left should be appointed as a police chief. This ruled out both Rakesh Asthana and Y.C. Modi. While National Investigation Agency (NIA) chief Y.C. Modi retires on May 31, Border Security Force (BSF) director-general Asthana’s tenure ends in August. Justice Ramana is said to have referred to the guideline during a high-powered committee meeting on Monday evening in which he, Prime Minister Modi and leader of the Opposition Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury discussed the appointment of the next CBI chief. The sources said Congress veteran Adhir supported this view. On Tuesday night, the Centre appointed IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as the new CBI chief. The 1985-batch officer from the Maharashtra cadre is currently the director-general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). “Controversial IPS officers Asthana and Y.C. Modi had been among the frontrunners for the post of the next CBI chief. But the CJI’s insistence on the apex court’s guideline in selecting the new chief ruled them out,” a government source said. A CBI official said this was the first time the guideline had been cited while selecting a CBI director. In the Prakash Singh judgement, the Supreme Court had looked into the problems related to the tenure and selection of police chiefs to avoid a situation where an officer who is to retire within a few months is given charge of a law-enforcement agency. The court had ruled that no officer with less than six months’ tenure remaining could be considered for the post of a police wing chief. Prakash Singh, who had served as the DGP of Uttar Pradesh and Assam, had moved the apex court after retirement, seeking police reforms and highlighting bad practices in the functioning of the police in India. “During Monday’s meeting, CJI Ramana insisted that the guideline be complied with,” said a CBI official. Selecting Jaiswal as the CBI director, an order issued by the Prime Minister-headed appointments committee of the cabinet said: “The appointments committee of the cabinet has, based on the panel recommended by the committee, approved the appointment of Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as director, CBI, for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the office….” The sources said the names of SSB director-general K.R. Chandra and special secretary (internal security) in the Union home ministry V.S.K. Kaumudi had also been considered. Jaiswal is the senior-most among the trio. Y.C. Modi, a 1984-batch Assam-and-Meghalaya-cadre IPS officer, was part of the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) that probed the 2002 Gujarat riots when Narendra Modi was chief minister. The SIT had given the future Prime Minister a clean chit in the Gulbarg Society massacre in which 69 people had been killed. Asthana, also a 1984-batch Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, had as inspector-general overseen the initial probe into the Godhra train burning that culminated in the riots. Last year the CBI had given a clean chit to Asthana, a former CBI special director, in connection with a bribery scandal in 2018. The case had triggered an unprecedented public feud between Asthana and then CBI director Alok Verma. Both had been benched by the Centre after an unusual midnight raid. The CBI, the country’s premier investigative agency, was being headed by interim director Praveen Sinha, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, after regular director Rishi Kumar Shukla demitted office on February 2 on the expiry of his two-year tenure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||CISF chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal appointed CBI director||CISF chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal was on Tuesday appointed as the new CBI director for two years, according to a Personnel Ministry order.  Jaiswal is a 1985-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of Maharashtra cadre. He has also served as Maharashtra's director general of police in the past.  The Central Bureau of Investigation was working without a regular chief for over three months after Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his two-year tenure on February 3.  CBI Additional Director Praveen Sinha, a 1988-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre, was appointed the acting chief of the agency after Shukla completed his tenure.  Jaiswal has been appointed as the director of CBI for a period of two years, the ministry order said.  A three-member selection committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Monday shortlisted Jaiswal's name.  Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are the two members of the panel.  During the meeting, Chowdhury had objected to the process of selection of officers for the coveted post.  "The way the procedure was followed, it was in conflict with the mandate of the committee. On 11th (May), I was given 109 names and today (Monday) by 1 pm, 10 names were shortlisted and by 4 pm, six names were shortlisted. This casual approach of DoPT (department of personnel and training) is highly objectionable," Chowdhury had told PTI.  The appointment assumes significance as the Supreme Court is hearing a petition filed by an NGO, Common Cause, on the delay in the appointment of a regular CBI chief.  The Centre had last month told the Supreme Court that the meeting of the selection committee for the appointment of the CBI director would be convened immediately after May 2.  On April 5, the apex court had asked the Centre to consider convening the meeting before May 2 observing that "in-charge arrangements" for the post cannot go on.  The petitioner has alleged that the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act.  The plea has also sought a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI director well in advance, at least one to two months before the date on which the vacancy to the post is about to occur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Odisha govt prepares to minimise damage||The Odisha government, which is already battling the coronavirus pandemic, has made several arrangements to minimise the damage likely to be caused by Cyclone Yaas when it makes landfall in the state on Wednesday. The government, which has set itself the target of evacuating 7.5 lakh people to safer places before the landfall of Yaas and ensuring zero casualties, has already moved 1.7 lakh people to cyclone shelters in different coastal districts. The evacuation process is on. Strict Covid-19 protocol is being observed at the cyclone shelters which have been properly sanitised. People taking shelter have been asked to follow the norms of social distancing and wear double masks to rule out the possibility of Covid-19 infection. “We have instructed the local administration and local people’s representatives to ensure fool-proof evacuation. We are working with a zero casualty mission in mind. More than 7,000 cyclone centres are ready to accommodate the people,” said special relief commissioner P.K. Jena, adding that no laxity will be tolerated during the evacuation process. The cyclone is likely to make landfall near Dhamra in Bhadrak district on Wednesday morning. The four districts — Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur — are likely to bear the brunt of the cyclone which will hit land in the form of a very severe cyclonic storm. The government is focusing on dealing with the situation in the aftermath of the landfall. Senior officials have already reached “ground zero” and essential food items have been stocked at the panchayat headquarters. All the coastal district collectors have been provided with satellite phones so that communication channels remain open during and after the cyclone. The navy has deployed 12 teams, including four diving teams, to tackle Yaas’s threat. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force, fire-fighting and tree cutting units have already been moved to the vulnerable areas to assist the people and the local administration in relief and restoration work. As Yaas nears land, rainfall has started across the coastal belt and the wind speed is gradually increasing. Many papaya and drumstick trees have already been uprooted in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Seawater has entered land near the Dhamra port (developed by the Adani group) in Bhadrak district. Around 2.5km away, fishermen have moored their boats securely near the coast at the Dhamra village port. The port is used by fishing trawlers and local boats. “Since early morning, the wind has started blowing and its speed is increasing by the hour. So far 50 per cent of the villagers have moved to local school buildings. Sarpanches and officials are trying to convince people to move to safer places. We are scared,” a villager said. A strong gale hit the Rajanagar area near Bhitarkanika National Park in Kendrapara district damaging several thatched houses. Big trees have been uprooted at Dangamal near Rajanagar. “We are frightened. We have already witnessed this destruction before the cyclone makes landfall,” said Dinamani Das, 26, a fisherman of Dangamal. Yaas is likely to cause extensive damage to Bhitarkanika, Dhamra port, and Paradip port in Jagatsinghpur district. All the ships that were anchored at the Paradip port have been sent to the deep sea. The central government is also worried about its two defence establishments at the Wheeler Island near Dhamra and the Chandipur integrated test range in Balasore. In Puri, the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration has asked the Archaeological Survey of India to reduce the number of iron scaffoldings surrounding the 12th century shrine. In 2019, Cyclone Fani, which made landfall in Puri, had caused extensive damage to the temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: BJP starts drawing up plan||As people across the country cope with death and disease in a devastating second surge of the pandemic, the BJP’s top leadership has begun drawing up plans for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections due next year. Worried that the failures of the Narendra Modi government and the Yogi Adityanath government could impact the voters’ mood, the top leadership is holding strategy sessions to devise ways to improve their image. Modi, who was busy with electioneering in Bengal when the second wave was surging through the country, last week held a virtual interaction with doctors and frontline workers from Varanasi at which he appeared to choke while offering condolences for those who had died of Covid. Many deaths across the country resulted from a shortage of oxygen and hospital beds, both of which are being blamed on lack of planning by the Modi government despite warnings. The government also failed to place advance orders for vaccines. Last week’s online interaction was seen as part of corrective measures to win the trust of the people. Modi is the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi, where bodies have been found floating in the Ganga. Adityanath, too, has started touring and inspecting Covid management across the state. Party leaders in Delhi claimed Adityanath has been asked to do so and improve the image of his government. A section of party leaders feel some big changes in the state government could also take place. Uttar Pradesh is among the states worst affected by the pandemic, its situation captured in photographs of countless bodies buried on the banks of the Ganga. “To win India in 2024, we have to win Uttar Pradesh in 2022,” one BJP leader said, claiming the party machinery has been asked to go out in the field and win the trust of the people. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state, accounts for 80 Lok Sabha seats. After the resounding defeat in Bengal, the outcome of the Uttar Pradesh polls next year would set the tone for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “We can’t deny that our leaders and workers are missing when people are suffering due to Covid. It was particularly serious in Uttar Pradesh,” a BJP MP from the state said. He said the state machinery had collapsed and even senior party leaders were helpless. Not only the Opposition, even ruling BJP members have been speaking out against the handling of the Covid crisis. Union labour minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, who represents Bareilly in the Lok Sabha, wrote to Adityanath to complain about Covid mismanagement in his district. Sitapur’s BJP legislator Rakesh Rathore said he was scared that sedition charge may be slapped against him if he spoke about Covid mismanagement. The outcome of the panchayat polls, held in the middle of the raging pandemic, set alarm bells ringing in the BJP leadership. Parties unofficially field and back candidates in panchayat polls. An assessment has shown that candidates backed by the Samajwadi Party won the largest share of seats while the BJP came second. “The panchayat poll results have shown that we have lost a lot of support since the last Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The anger among the people due to Covid mismanagement could further change the mood of the voters,” one BJP MP said. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has asked its cadres to go out and help the people. Party leaders said the Bengal defeat has shocked the top leadership and all out efforts would be made to ensure an emphatic victory in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Opposition parties turn up heat against Praful Patel||Opposition parties stepped up their campaign seeking recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Patel for his “anti-people” decisions on a day Kerala High Court stayed an order of the administration. “News reports from Lakshadweep are quite serious. Challenges imposed on their lives, livelihoods and culture cannot be accepted. Kerala has a strong relationship, a long history of cooperation with LD. Unequivocally condemn devious efforts to thwart it. Perpetrators should desist,” Kerala chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan said in a tweet. Patel, who had served as Gujarat home minister and is believed to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, is accused of unilaterally lifting restrictions on the use of alcohol in the Muslim-majority islands, banning beef products, and demolishing fishermen’s sheds in the coastal areas. “The local people fear that all these unilateral and anti-people decisions would ultimately lead to the destruction of traditional livelihood and unique culture of Lakshadweep. This has created huge unrest and protest among the local population there,” Congress general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP K.C. Venugopal has written in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking Patel’s recall. Several Opposition politicians have written to the President. Lakshadweep MP and Nationalist Congress Party leader Muhammed Faizal said: “The island is being surrendered to big corporates. A 15 metre wide road is being planned for tourism on an island of 3.5sqkm. This is being done after evacuating the people from their land. Such steps are being taken to serve whose interests?” The administrator unilaterally implements his agenda without adequate consultation with the people, Faisal claimed and called for protests against the “anti-people” measures. Venugopal urged the administration to withdraw the orders issued and promulgated in Patel’s tenure, which began in December. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Lakshadweep, Tariq Anwar, has been directed to organise a protest against the “anti-people” policies of Patel, he said. Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, V.D. Satheesan, besides Congress leaders from the state, including Ramesh Chennithala and Adoor Prakash, have also sought recall of the administrator. The BJP’s Lakshadweep unit defended the administrator, alleging that false propaganda was unleashed against Patel by Opposition parties as part of their political campaign against the Modi government at the Centre. BJP Lakshadweep spokesperson Siraj Koya said the party was solidly behind the administrator. BJP’s Lakshadweep unit general secretary H.K. Mohammed Kasim, however, told PTI that while he was not opposing the reforms undertaken by the administration, those measures should be implemented after winning the hearts of the people. Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty alleged that the administrator was trying to implement “hidden agenda of the RSS and BJP” in the islands. He said the party would seek legal options against the “anti-people” measures. The Lakshadweep administration suffered a setback as Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed its order directing the Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) to attend pending legal works of various government departments, instead of carrying out his duties in the courts there. The court granted the stay on a PIL by an islander Mohammed Saleem challenging the administration’s directive to the APP posted in Andrott and Amini islands, to attend to legal works of several departments, including preparation of chargesheet to help the police. Lakshadweep is under the jurisdiction of Kerala High Court. The petitioner alleged that the order was rampant abuse of power and an absolute failure of the justice delivery system. During the hearing, the high court orally told counsel for the administration that the affairs in Lakshadweep were being noticed by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Delhi High Court refuses to discuss farmers’ march||Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to look into the issue of a proposed march by farmers into the national capital on Wednesday to mark six months of their protest against the new farm laws. An oral mention was made to stop the farmers from moving towards Delhi’s borders and directions for the police to enforce Covid guidelines so that the event does not turn into a super spreader. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the issue concerning farmers’ protest was being looked into by the Supreme Court and the high court will not examine it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Toolkit case: Congress asks Twitter to flag 11 Union minister's posts as 'manipulated media'||The Congress on Tuesday asked Twitter to mark as “manipulated media” the tweets of 11 Union ministers on the “fake” toolkit as was done in the case of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. In a letter to Twitter’s lead for legal, policy and trust & safety Vijaya Gadde and its deputy general counsel and vice-president Jim Baker, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said several ministers of the Narendra Modi government had propagated the fabricated material to mislead the nation and gain undue political advantage. Surjewala said the basis on which Patra’s tweet was flagged applied to these ministers as well. Some of the ministers posted more incendiary and defamatory comments with the allegedly forged toolkit, he said, annexing links and screenshots to his letter. “It is also a matter of fact that people tend to believe as true and take on face value any information that is put up directly by a Union minister of the Government of India through their verified Twitter account.” Hence, it becomes all the more imperative to tag “manipulative media” on all such tweets by ministers. Minister for animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries Giriraj Singh, for instance, tweeted the “toolkit” with the comment: “It is unfortunate for the country that the soul of the main Opposition party Congress is dead, only body is alive. The Corona patient who didn’t fall at the Congress feet was left to die. The Congress kept celebrating the bodies being burnt in the crematorium but didn’t extend any help.” That the top ministers were engrossed in maligning the Opposition party amid the greatest humanitarian crisis India is grappling with has allowed the Congress to go on the offensive. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Truth remains unafraid.” Congress research department chief Rajeev Gowda and social media head Rohan Gupta on Tuesday refused to comply with a Delhi police notice for joining the probe and said they would cooperate with the Chhattisgarh probe, citing a Supreme Court ruling. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said Delhi police hadn’t yet registered any FIR while Raipur police had lodged an FIR and started an investigation. The Supreme Court has ruled that the investigation will be done on the basis of the first FIR in case multiple complaints are registered in different states. The Congress came down heavily on Delhi police for visiting the Twitter office, condemning it as an intimidation tactic. Surjewala said the intention of Delhi police was clear as they were questioning Twitter instead of BJP leaders. The ministers Surjewala mentioned in the complaint to Twitter included: Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dharmendra Pradhan, Prahlad Joshi, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Thawarchand Gehlot, Harsh Vardhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The Congress described the toolkit controversy as a concerted action to divert attention from the horror of Covid-19 mismanagement. Among the tweets Surjewala mentioned was Piyush Goyal’s: “Dividing India and attempting to fracture the Indian social fabric with communal hatred is Congress’s second nature. Disgraceful to see the Congress party and its leaders engaging in political deception….” Shekhawat tweeted: “Congress toolkit is not just on paper but an action plan that has been executed by the entire nexus of Congress cabal. But is making innocent Indians pay with their lives for political gains justified? Will India ever forgive you?” The tweets give the impression that it is the Congress, not the BJP, that is in power now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Toolkit case: Nishikant Dubey seeks removal of Shashi Tharoor as IT panel chairman||The battle over Twitter declaring a post of BJP spokesman Sambit Patra as “manipulated media’’ spilt over into the parliamentary panel on information technology on Tuesday with party MP Nishikant Dubey writing to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking the removal of Congressman Shashi Tharoor as committee chairman and also his disqualification from the House under the Tenth Schedule. In his letter to the Speaker, Dubey has sought action against Tharoor for his “cantankerous, inane and rogue behaviour’’ which is “tarnishing the image of Parliament as well as the Government of India’’. Dubey’s main charge against Tharoor is that he referred to the B.1.617 variant of Covid as the “Indian variant” even though the World Health Organisation has said there is no such strain and the government has written to all social media platforms to remove such mentions. On the parliamentary panel of which both are members, Dubey accused Tharoor of turning it into an extension of the Congress for having questioned the government’s actions against Twitter in the toolkit controversy. Last week, the BJP alleged that the Congress has come out with a social media “toolkit” on Covid to defame the government and the Prime Minister. The Congress had last week complained to Twitter against Patra, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and other leaders of the ruling party for allegedly circulating forged documents and spreading misinformation. The Congress had also complained to Delhi police. Subsequently, Patra’s post was marked as “manipulated media’’ by Twitter following which the government sought an explanation from the micro-blogging site. Police also turned up at Twitter India’s office in Gurgaon on Monday night to serve notice. Alleging that Tharoor was helping Twitter act against the government, Dubey argued that the Congress MP has crossed all limits of “responsible behaviour’’ and should be disqualified from the Lok Sabha. Tharoor has not responded to Dubey yet but his Twitter timeline after the BJP leader made the letter public indicates that he remains undeterred. This is not the first time that Dubey and Tharoor have clashed. Last year, Dubey had questioned Tharoor’s decision to summon Facebook in the wake of a Wall Street Journal expose about the alleged preferential treatment given to the BJP by the social networking site. Tharoor responded with a privilege notice against Dubey for his “disparaging remarks’’ and the BJP MP submitted a similar counter notice. Nothing came of it but the two have continued to lock horns inside and outside the parliamentary panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Covid: Priyanka calls out Centre for its 'callousness'||Who is responsible, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked on Tuesday as she tore into the government for its “callousness” and for being a “silent spectator” as the country was engulfed by the pandemic and pledged to apportion accountability. In a Facebook post, Priyanka said questions would be asked of the Centre and promised to place facts in the public domain over the next few days to explain the reasons for the humongous tragedy. The Congress leader wrote: “Who is responsible? How did we reach here? One of the biggest producers of oxygen and vaccines in the world, a country whose doctors are famous everywhere — how did we reach a situation in which our citizens lost their lives for want of oxygen, hospital beds and vaccines? Questions will have to be asked as thousands have died because of the government’s callousness. Questions must be asked to ensure the government shares its action plan for the future with transparency. Questions will be asked to enforce responsibility and accountability.” Laying the blame at the central government’s door without any ambiguity, Priyanka said: “The government was expected to deploy all the national resources and capabilities to save lives when the second wave of the coronavirus started playing havoc with the people, when the citizens were struggling for hospital admission, oxygen, medicines and vaccines. But the government slipped into the mode of a silent spectator, creating tragic circumstances in the whole country.” Priyanka, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, had until now been writing to chief minister Yogi Adityanath almost daily to highlight the people’s miseries. In the Facebook post, Priyanka referred to the disappearance of Modi and other key BJP leaders from the public eye when the pandemic surged through the country. “The government of India didn’t have anything to offer except callousness. Export of vaccines, doubling export of oxygen in 2020, placing insufficient orders for vaccines show the government’s irresponsible behaviour. How deadly the second wave was could be gauged from the number of deaths. The entire country was in distress. Today when the curve is flattening in the natural course, the government has appeared, using the media and its machinery. Again the Prime Minister and his ministers have started delivering statements.” “In the coming days, I will put forward some facts under ‘Who is responsible’ to make you understand the reasons for the pathetic situation. On your behalf I will ask some questions to the central government, whose duty it is to answer them. Your cooperation and suggestions are welcome,” she added. The Congress has been extremely critical of the government’s conduct though it has also given constructive suggestions on all aspects of the pandemic — health, economic and administrative. The government, however, never demonstrated any inclination to adopt a consensual approach and rebuffed all suggestions with contempt instead of picking the brains of leaders who have administrative experience of decades. Congress spokesperson and former Union minister Anand Sharma lamented that the Prime Minister always dwelt on “cooperative federalism” but did not walk the talk in these difficult times. In a series of tweets, Sharma said: “The people of India are suffering and feeling let down. The lives of our people are more important than pride and ego. It is not only the legal and political duty but also the moral responsibility of the government to protect the lives of all Indians.” Sharma added: “It is India’s tragedy that… India’s vastness and diversity is sought to be micromanaged in the unprecedented crisis of the pandemic. Centralisation of authority and decisions in one or two offices led to disastrous mismanagement. “The vaccination drive is in a shambles and people are suffering and despairing. In a democracy, questions will be asked and those in authority made accountable. There is no wisdom in denial and challenging scientists and epidemiologists. It is unfair to pass on the responsibility and blame onto states which were left powerless as all decisions were made by the central government.” Stressing that unity of purpose was vital in these difficult times, Sharma said: “In a global crisis how can the states be asked to import vaccines? Import-exports, customs and trade policy are central subjects. In a country of 140 crore, there will be mutations and variants as viruses do mutate in countries big or small. Accelerated universal vaccination, empowering the states and investing in public health infrastructure alone can meet the challenge.” Echoing the sentiments of the chief ministers who have felt one-way communication won’t help, Sharma said: “Democracy is about cooperation and dialogue. The Prime Minister has a mandate as the elected leader of the country. So have the chief ministers of states a constitutional mandate, which must be recognised. The path of confrontation between the Centre and the states hurts India’s national interest. Modi has spoken of cooperative federalism. It is time to walk the talk.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Centre hires over 31,000 less people in 2020-21 than previous year||The central government hired over 31,000 less employees in 2020-21 than the previous year, exacerbating the country’s growing unemployment rate and belying the Narendra Modi regime’s tall claims on job creation. Sources said the declining trend of recruitment for central government jobs could be attributed to a cash crunch that has prompted outsourcing of work to private entities at lower rates, reduction in the number of posts, rampant privatisation and closure of PSUs and a sluggish employment generation process. The situation has only been worsened by the pandemic, which has stalled the conduct of exams and slowed down administrative processes. According to the payroll data on formal employment released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) under the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, the number of new subscribers for the National Pension Scheme (NPS) has come down to 87,423 in 2020-21 from 1,18,843 in 2019-20. (See chart) Anybody joining a regular central government job has to subscribe to the NPS. The statistics ministry has been bringing out the employment-related data since April 2018. Ajeet Sonkar, an unemployed youth in Allahabad, said he was not surprised. “This government is using recruitment exams to earn revenue. It is not interested in giving jobs,” he said. “Take our example. Around 20 lakh students like me had applied for the Combined Higher Secondary Level Examination of the central Staff Selection Commission in December 2019. We took the objective-type test and the essay-writing exam a year ago. The results are yet to be declared. After the results, we will have to appear for a typing test. Ideally, it takes about one year for the conduct of exams and the announcement of the final results. But this time the process has been dragging on for 18 months and there is still no end in sight,” Sonkar said. The general category and Other Backward Class candidates have to pay Rs 100 each to appear for the exam, while the process is free for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates. The successful candidates are recruited to clerical positions. Sonkar said all the recruitment exams were being delayed over the past five years. The number of posts has also declined, he added. The SSC used to advertise for vacancies to over 15,000 posts for the Combined Graduate Level Exam every year till 2015. The number of posts has declined to about 8,000 a year now. “We have been protesting on social media against the central government’s delay in recruitment. But the government is not bothered,” Sonkar said. Over 5 million youths had in February stormed Twitter with the hashtag “Modi job do (Modi, give us jobs)”. Labour economist Prof. Santosh Mehrotra said the drop in the government’s recruitment rate showed that the Centre was contributing to the unemployment situation. The last (2017-18) Periodic Labour Force Survey whose data is available in the public domain found that the unemployment rate was at a four-decade high of 6.1 per cent. “The government itself is not interested in recruiting for vacant posts. This syndrome is the same with the state governments too. The government does not want to spend on staff,” Mehrotra said. The Centre has outsourced several jobs to private firms and consultants, whose bill is lower than what it would have had to spend on paying staff salaries. “The central government itself is adding to the unemployment situation,” Mehrotra said. The government is facing difficulties in paying the salaries of its existing staff, leading to delays. Even doctors and nurses in government hospitals have been paid late, that too amid the pandemic, Mehrotra said. Prof. K.R. Shyam Sundar, faculty of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, called the trend of decreasing recruitments “worrisome”. “While the recruitment rate in 2019-20 witnessed a growth of 7.5 per cent year-on-year, the growth rate for the Covid year 2020-21 over 2019-20 is negative — minus 27 per cent. Notwithstanding the Covid months, the slow pick-up in (NPS) enrolment is a cause of concern,” Sundar said. Avinash Kumar, a faculty of labour studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said the employees of the central government and its institutions constituted about 18 per cent of the total formal sector staff in the country. “People put in a lot of effort to get a government job. But the government is not interested in giving jobs. The government raises slogans urging youths to become job creators. Such slogans are jumlas (empty rhetoric). When the government itself is not recruiting for vacant posts, its advice to others to create jobs has no meaning,” Kumar said. He said public-funded universities had a staff vacancy rate of nearly 40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
