27-05-2021||India|| Stop trying to dictate terms, govt tells Twitter||The government on Thursday slammed as "baseless and false" a statement by Twitter that had alleged intimidation by police over the 'manipulated media' tags issue and threat to freedom of expression, with the IT Ministry terming the company's stance as an attempt to dictate terms to the world's largest democracy. The ministry asserted that representatives of social media companies, including Twitter, "are and will always remain safe in India", and that there is "no threat to their personal safety and security". In a hard-hitting statement, the ministry said India has a glorious tradition of free speech and democratic practices dating back centuries. "Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit, foreign entity like Twitter, but it is the commitment of the world's largest democracy and its robust institutions," it said. Twitter's statement is an attempt to "dictate its terms" to the world's largest democracy, the ministry said, adding that through its actions and deliberate defiance, the company is seeking to undermine India's legal system. Twitter refuses to comply with the very regulations in the Intermediary Guidelines on the basis of which it is claiming safe harbour protection from any criminal liability in India, the ministry contended. It questioned Twitter on why it did not set up a robust mechanism of its own in India and said the company's officials in India routinely claimed that they have no authority and that "they and the people of India need to escalate everything to Twitter headquarters in the US". The purported commitment of Twitter to its Indian user base thus not only sounds hollow but completely self-serving, the ministry said. Despite having a large user base in India and earning significant revenue from its operations here, Twitter is "most reluctant" to appoint India-based grievance redressal officer and mechanism, chief compliance officer and nodal officer to whom its own users can complain when they are subjected to offensive tweets, the ministry argued. The government said it respects the right of people to ask questions and also criticise on these social media platforms, including Twitter. The government equally respects the right of privacy, it said. "The only instance of scuttling free speech on Twitter is Twitter itself and its opaque policies, as a result of which people's accounts are suspended and tweets deleted arbitrarily without recourse," the ministry pointed out. It asked Twitter to "stop beating around the bush" and comply with the laws of the land. "Lawmaking and policy formulations is the sole prerogative of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what India's legal policy framework should be," the ministry said. The government said although Twitter claimed that it is committed to the people of India, that commitment has been "most invisible in recent times". Flagging some instances, it said Twitter chose to show the geo-locations of certain locations in Union Territory of Ladakh as part of China, and took several days to rectify "this blatant disrespect to India's sensitivity and territorial integrity". The ministry also called out Twitter for delay in taking action on its order to block provocative content that could impact public law and order, even though the company had been quick to act on similar instances during violence at US Capitol Hill. The ministry said that Twitter's "lack of responsibility" had led to rampant proliferation of fake and harmful content against India and Indians. "Twitter Inc., a USA based private company, in its communique says that it seeks 'constructive dialogue', 'collaborative approach' from the Government of a sovereign democratic republic to 'safeguard interests of the public'. It is time that Twitter disabuses itself of this grandiosity and comply with laws of India," it said. Earlier on Thursday, Twitter had called the recent visit by Delhi Police to its offices a form of "intimidation" and said it was concerned about its employees and the potential threat to freedom of expression. Twitter had marked tweets by ruling BJP leaders on the alleged strategy document of Opposition to target the government over COVID as containing 'manipulated media', which prompted the police to visit its offices late on Monday. Opposition Congress has disputed the document, calling it fake. In its first official statement after the Delhi Police visited the company's offices in Delhi and in Gurugram to serve notice to its country managing director as part of its investigation into the 'manipulated media' tag, Twitter said it will continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency and protecting freedom of expression. "Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve," Twitter said in the statement. "We, alongside many in civil society in India and around the world, have concerns with regards to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global Terms of Service, as well as with core elements of the new IT rules," Twitter had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Centre junks NYT report claiming underreporting of Covid toll in India||The government on Thursday dismissed as "completely baseless" a recent New York Times report on Covid-19 toll in India, saying it is not backed by any evidence. At a press conference, the Union health ministry said the report is absolutely false and based on "distorted estimates". The report titled "Just how big could India's true Covid toll be" estimated 600,000 deaths due to the infection in the country in a conservative scenario, 1.6 million estimated deaths in a more likely scenario and 4.2 million estimated deaths in a worse scenario. Dismissing the report, Health ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said, "It is completely baseless and absolutely false and not backed on any evidence." "The question does not arise that Covid-related deaths are getting concealed because since the beginning, our efforts have been that all cases and deaths are reported in a transparent manner. It is also necessary so that we can understand the overall trajectory of infection and what efforts have to be made so that required actions can be taken for it," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said the report is based on distorted estimates. "The estimates have been done ad-hoc without any basis... reported cases are a part of a larger universe of total infections in any country," he said. He said the problem in the analysis arises "when a certain number is thrown as mortality rate out of that infection". "If we go with our sero survey, then infection related mortality is 0.05 per cent and actual mortality is 1.1 per cent... They are taking 0.3 per cent - 6 times - on what basis has it been decided that it is 0.3 per cent of that large infection number - no basis at all," Paul said. He further said that if the same method is used, then by that estimate New York reported 50,000 deaths in May. "I make it six times, it is 90,000 deaths and if I do it 12 times, it is 1.75 lakh deaths but they don't say that, they say it is 16,000. What I mean to say here is this is a distorted estimate for mortality. For infection estimates, they used our data only from January which can still be acceptable," Paul said. "On what basis does this group pull out an infection mortality rate of 0.3 per cent in one scenario, 0.15 in another scenario and 0.6 in another scenario? On what basis? This is just an assumption and a feeling of some people and this is something that should have been not published particularly in so-called prestigious publications. I submit that we have a strong mortality tracking system which has stood the test of time," he said. Paul said there might be deaths where testing was not done but "outrageous factors suddenly without any basis and just on assumption is not fair and we don't accept it".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep administration justifies reforms, rejects Opposition allegations||The Lakshadweep administration, which is under attack from the Opposition for its reform measures, on Thursday said it was laying the foundation for the future of islands in a planned way and to develop it on the lines of Maldives in two decades. Rejecting allegations that all measures were taken without taking people of the islands into confidence, Lakshadweep District Collector S Asker Ali said those who are having vested interests and those involved in illegal business were carrying out propaganda against the administration. "Lakshadweep is very peaceful. It will remain peaceful. Now also in the islands, it is very peaceful," Ali told a press conference in Kochi. Justifying the decision to introduce the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) in the islands, the official said this is to check the incidents like drug abuse and increasing cases of sexual abuse of children. "So when we plan to develop this island holistically we cannot compromise on the Law and Order fronts. Lakshadweep is very peaceful. But now few cases are emerging", he said, responding to queries on various regulations of the new administration. The press meet was held amid mounting protest from opposition parties against "anti-people" policies of administrator Praful Patel in the islands. The collector said the administration wanted to develop islands like the Maldives in the next 10 or 20 years. The islands are very critical from a security point of view. "So we are planning for a holistic development for these islands. From a security point of view, Lakshadweep islands are very critical. So we cannot take a chance. "Basically, we wanted to prepare ourselves for the requirements of the future considering the past experience and present emerging situations," Ali said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Delhi police slam Twitter, call its statements 'mendacious'||The Delhi Police on Thursday said the statements by Twitter on the ongoing enquiry in the 'toolkit' case was mendacious and designed to impede the lawful enquiry. The strongly-worded statement by the Delhi Police came after Twitter on Thursday called the visit by Delhi Police to its offices a form of "intimidation" and said it was concerned about its employees and the potential threat to freedom of expression. An official statement issued by Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said, "Prima facie, these statements are not only mendacious but designed to impede a lawful inquiry by a private enterprise. Twitter Inc. has taken upon itself, in the garb of terms of service, to adjudicate the truth or otherwise of documents in public space." According to the police statement, Twitter is purporting to be both investigating authority and adjudicating authority, but has no legal sanction to be either. The only legal entity to investigate is the police and to adjudicate is the courts, the statement said, The Delhi Police said that it has registered a preliminary inquiry in the 'toolkit' case at the instance of a complaint filed by the representative of the Indian National Congress. "Hence, the efforts by Twitter Inc. that portray that this as an FIR filed at the behest of the Government of India is wholly and completely incorrect," it stated. It further said that Twitter's statements are devised to seek "dubious sympathy" when they themselves not only refuse to comply with the law of the land but also claim to be in possession of material evidence but refuse to share it with the legal authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Significant adverse effects unlikely in case of vaccine mix up, says Centre||A steady decline in new Covid-19 cases has been recorded in India for the last 20 days, with 24 states witnessing a dip in active cases since last week, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. It also noted that the country is on a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19. We are on a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19 and believe that it will be sustained even when restrictions are significantly relaxed, the ministry said. A steady decline in new Covid-19 cases has been recorded in India for the last 20 days. Twenty-four states have also reported a decline in active Covid-19 cases since last week, it said. The ministry also said that while Covid-19 testing has increased manifold, a steady decline in weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has been seen since the last three weeks. On possible adverse effects of taking the second dose of a different Covid vaccine, it said, “If a second dose of a different Covid vaccine is taken, any significant adverse effect is unlikely, but we need more scrutiny and understanding in this regard.” In a major goof-up earlier this month, health workers in Uttar Pradesh's Siddharthnagar district administered Covaxin to 20 villagers who had been given Covishield in the first dose. The incident has been reported from the primary health centre in Barhni where people from Audahi Kala and another village received Covaxin shots on May 14. Accepting the shortcoming on the part of the health workers, the CMO said 20 people have been administered a mix-up of vaccines and the medical teams are keeping a close watch on them. The Centre on Thursday also termed a recent report by the New York Times (NYT) on the estimated Covid-19 death toll in India as completely baseless and false . The NYT report is not backed by any evidence and based on distorted estimates, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Modi holds review meeting on impact of cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the impact of Cyclone Yaas at a meeting on Thursday during which he asked the central and state agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest. The prime minister chaired the meeting during which officials made a detailed presentation on various aspects of preparedness, assessment of damage and related matters, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. According to another PMO statement, Modi will visit Odisha and Bengal on Friday and will chair review meetings in the two states to assess the impact of the cyclone. He will also undertake an aerial survey of the affected areas in the two states, it said. Cyclone Yaas pounded parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. At the meeting held on Thursday, it was informed that about 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force were deployed with 46 teams each in Bengal and Odisha that rescued more than 1,000 people and removed more than 2,500 trees and poles that had fallen and obstructed roads, the PMO said. Defence forces, namely the Army and the Coast Guard, also rescued marooned people, while the Navy and Air Force were on the alert, it said. "Reviewed the situation arising due to Cyclone Yaas. Discussed the preparedness, relief and rehabilitation efforts as well as other aspects," Modi tweeted after the meeting. The PMO said though the states are engaged in assessment of the damage caused in the aftermath of the cyclone, from the preliminary reports available, it is seen that due to accurate forecasting, effectively communicating to the people in the affected areas and evacuation in a timely manner by states and central agencies, there was minimal loss of human life. At the same time, damage caused due to inundation are being assessed, it added. According to the statement, power and telecom services have been restored in most of the affected areas. During the meeting, the prime minister noted the effective and proactive role played by the central and states agencies in responding to challenges posed by the cyclone and advised the agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest and relief is appropriately disbursed to people affected by the cyclone, the PMO said. Principal secretary to the prime minister, the cabinet secretary, home secretary, secretary Power, telecom secretary and DG of India Meteorological Department and other officials participated in the meeting, it said. Mamata to hold meeting with Modi Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that she would be holding a review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the cyclone-led devastation, during his visit to the state. Mamata said that the meeting will be held at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is coming here after conducting a survey of cyclone-affected areas in Odisha. He will reach Kalaikunda via Digha, and take his flight to Delhi from there. The PM will hold a review meeting with me at Kalaikunda," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat. The Bengal CM, along with Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, is scheduled to undertake an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas in Purba Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||News broadcasters urge govt to exempt them from new IT rules||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) Thursday urged the government to "exempt and exclude" the traditional television news media and its extended presence on the digital news platforms from the ambit of the IT Rules 2021, saying it is already "sufficiently regulated" by various statutes, laws, guidelines, codes and regulations. "The Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act, 2000) had not contemplated the regulation of digital news media. Despite this, the IT Rules, 2021 seek to inter alia include traditional news media, i.e. electronic television news media having a digital news feed and presence on other digital media platforms, within its purview. This appears to be ultra vires the IT Act, 2000," the NBA said, raising its concerns in a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. The NBA represents several leading national and regional private television news and current affairs broadcasters which run news channels in Hindi, English and regional languages. "In any event, while the NBA appreciates the need for regulations, the traditional news media need not be subjected to and/ or covered under the scope of the IT Rules 2021, since it is already sufficiently regulated by various statutes, laws, guidelines and codes, regulations, and judgements," it said. The NBA members are also required to adhere to the code of ethics and broadcasting standards and the National Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) regulations and the guidelines, it added. The NBSA is an independent self-regulatory mechanism that is headed by an eminent jurist along with four independent members from the civil society, being persons with proven eminence in various fields of activity and four editors of the members of NBA. "The IT Rules 2021, if applied to the digital media of the linear television medium, would only result in duplication of the adjudicatory and redressal mechanism resulting in the creation of parallel adjudicatory bodies," the NBA said. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 prescribe administrative regulations, which will make it "virtually impossible" for small or medium-sized traditional news media organisations to survive, the news broadcasters body said. "Any additional mandates as contemplated under the IT Rules, 2021 would result in increasing the employee costs and compliance requirements of the traditional television news media organisations along with duplication and creation of parallel processes," it said. The NBA said the media organisations would have to devote "significant resources and time" in resolving each complaint and in defending themselves before multiple forums. "Therefore, NBA suggests that the focus should primarily be on further strengthening the already existing mechanism of NBSA and giving statutory recognition to NBA's Code of Ethics under the Cable TV Rules," it added. The NBA also said that the IT Act, 2000 and the IT Rules 2021, and "more specifically" provisions such as the blocking of content in cases of emergency, will "severely" impact the freedom of speech and expression of the media. "Since the news channels/broadcasters and their extended digital arms strictly adhere to the statutes and regulations applicable and are governed at multiple levels of redressal mechanism, if the IT Rules, 2021 are made applicable, it will not only lead to harassment of the news channels/broadcasters but will also suppress and violate their fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression and will also restrict news reporting in a fair manner," the association said. "The NBA requests the exclusion of the digital news platforms that are owned and run by traditional news media from the purview of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021," it said. The association requested that a "specific and express exclusion" should be carved out in the definitions of "digital news media and/or publishers of news and current affairs content" to exclude the applicability of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021 to the digital news platforms that are owned and run by the traditional news media. The association also urged the ministry to keep the IT Rules, 2021 "in abeyance/suspension", specifically concerning the NBA members till the pending matters challenging the IT Rules, 2021 in the various high Courts are adjudicated upon and decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Don’t discharge Hany Babu before June 1, Bombay HC tells hospital||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai not to discharge Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, till June 1 and sought a medical report on his condition and treatment given to him. A vacation bench of Justices S S Shinde and N R Borkar said if the private hospital was to discharge Babu before June 1, then it shall first inform the court and take permission. Babu tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month and was initially brought from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the government-run J J Hospital here. He was later shifted to the GT Hospital in Mumbai. His wife Jenny Rowena subsequently filed a petition in the HC seeking interim bail and medical aid for him. Their counsel Yug Chaudhry had argued that Babu developed a severe eye infection and ran the risk of losing vision in his left eye. On May 19, the HC permitted Babu to be shifted to the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai for medical treatment at his own cost. On Thursday, Chaudhry sought an urgent hearing of the petition, saying Babu should not be discharged from the hospital and sent back to jail. "From May 3 to May 12, the prison authorities systematically ignored his (Babu) complaint of eye infection. Currently, he is being treated at the Breach Candy Hospital. “Our only request is that he should not be discharged and sent back to jail on the ground that he does not require critical care anymore," Chaudhry said. When the bench asked if Babu's eye ailment was the new black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, Chaudhry said the hospital had checked, but they (Babus family or lawyer) do not know whether it is a fungal infection or a bacterial infection. The bench then said the hospital should submit to the court an interim report on Babu's condition and the treatment provided to him. "This mucormycosis is a serious infection that affects the life of a person. This is very dangerous. We need to find out if he is getting proper treatment," Justice Shinde said. The bench also noted that injections for this new post-Covid-19 ailment (mucormycosis) were available only at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state-run hospitals. "Today, we read somewhere that the BMC was now supplying the injections for black fungus to private hospitals too. We need to know if the Breach Candy Hospital has those injections," Justice Shinde said. The court also said the state government and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, should not take this petition in an adversarial manner. "The hospital shall submit an interim report on the medical treatment given to Hany Babu by June 1. Till then, the hospital is requested not to discharge him. If they do then, this court should be informed and permission should be taken," the HC said. The bench will hear the matter next on June 1. Babu was arrested by the NIA in July 2020. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in the district. The Pune police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The case was later taken over by the NIA. Several other activists, including Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao, had been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Political efforts being made to portray Indian government in a certain way, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said that there is "a political effort" to depict the current government in India in a certain way and there is a difference between the political imagery that has been "concocted" and actually the governance record out there. During a conversation with former US National Security Advisor General HR McMaster in Battlegrounds' session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership' presented by the Hoover Institution, Jaishankar on Wednesday also said that India is going through a very stressful time" right now because of the pandemic. "We are actually giving free food, last year for multiple months and right now again because of the second wave we have resumed, to as much as 800 million people. We put money into the bank accounts of 400 million people. "This is what this government did. Now, if you are feeding more than two and a half times the population of the United States and you are funding more than the population of the US and you're doing this pretty much anonymously and impersonally in the sense beyond the name and the detail, the bank account of the person. We're not asking anything more. There is no criteria of discrimination, Jaishankar, also a senior leader of the ruling BJP, said. "So I think when you come down to real governance judgments, you find that there is a difference between the political imagery that has been concocted and actually the governance record out there. "So I think you should take it for what it is, which is really politics at play. You can agree with it, you can disagree with it but I would certainly see that very much as part of a political effort to depict our current government in a certain way and obviously I have a very profound difference with that, he added. "We Indians are extremely confident about our democracy. India is a deeply pluralistic society,” the minister said. Jaishankar was responding to a question by McMaster on some Hindutva policies that could undermine the secular nature of Indian democracy, how he sees internal Indian politics evolving during the trauma of the pandemic and India's friends "right to be concerned about some of these recent trends." Jaishankar said he would respond to the question with a straight political answer and a slightly more nuanced societal answer. "The political answer is that in the past there was a great reliance on what's called vote bank politics, which is appealing to vote banks on the basis of their identity, or their beliefs or whatever it is. And the fact that we have departed from it has obviously been a difference," he said. He stressed that India is a country of many faiths and faiths everywhere in the world are very closely tied to culture and identity. "Now in our society, we define secularism as equal respect for all faiths. Secularism doesn't mean that you are in denial of your own faith or anybody else's faith for that matter. "I think what you are seeing in India, in many ways, is the deepening of democracy if you would call it, a much broader representation in politics and in leadership positions and in civil society of people. Of people who are much more confident about their culture, about their language, about their beliefs. "I would be very open about it. I mean these are people who perhaps are less, shall I say, less from the English-speaking world, less connected to other global centers. So there is a difference. And I think sometimes that difference is judged politically harshly and it is often used to create a certain narrative, he said. Jaishankar added that the larger societal explanation he would give is that India is diverse in every conceivable sense of the term - ethnicity, language. "You name a parameter and you know it's a broad spectrum sort of representation out there." Jaishankar, who arrived in New York Sunday and met UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, travelled to Washington on Wednesday where he is expected to meet US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. It is the first visit by a senior Indian minister to the US after President Joe Biden assumed office in January. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||India to procure Pfizer jabs soon, says NITI Aayog member||As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the central government and the company started working together for the earliest possible import of the vaccine, NITI Aayog member VK Paul said on Thursday. Paul, in a statement on 'Myth and Facts on India's Vaccination Process' pointed out that vaccines are in limited supply globally, and companies have their own priorities, game-plans and compulsions in allocating finite stocks. "As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the central government and the company are working together for the earliest possible import of the vaccine," Paul, who is also the head of India's COVID-19 task force, said. Paul, the Chair of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), has said that as a result of the central government's efforts, Sputnik vaccine trials got accelerated and with timely approval, Russia has already sent two tranches of vaccines and accomplished tech-transfer to Indian companies that would start manufacturing very soon. "We reiterate our request to all international vaccine makers to come and make in India for India and for the world," he said. The NITI Aayog member said the Centre has engaged continuously with all the major international vaccine manufacturers right from mid-2020. "Multiple rounds of discussions have happened with Pfizer, J&J & Moderna. The government offered all assistance to have them supply and/or manufacture their vaccines in India," he said. However, Paul noted that it is not that their vaccines are available in free supply. "We need to understand that buying vaccines internationally is not similar to buying 'off the shelf' items," he said. According to sources, Pfizer has told Indian authorities that its jab has shown "high effectiveness" against the SARS-CoV-2 variant prevalent in India and on people of Indian ethnicity or nationality, while it is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees. Pfizer, which is ready to offer 5 crore doses to India between July and October this year, has sought certain relaxations including indemnification, has held a series of interactions with the Indian government authorities recently including one this week, during which it shared the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Paul also refuted the claim by some opposition leaders that the Centre is not doing enough to ramp-up domestic production of vaccines. "The central government is playing the role of an effective facilitator to enable more companies to produce vaccines from early 2020. "There is only 1 Indian company (Bharat Biotech) which has the IP. The government of India has ensured that 3 other companies/plants will start production of Covaxin apart from enhancing Bharat Biotech's own plants, which have increased from 1 to 4," he argued. Paul further said that Covaxin production by Bharat Biotech is being increased from under 1 crore per month to 10 crore per month by October. India is currently using mainly two 'made-in India' jabs Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Russian-made Sputnik V at a smaller scale to inoculate its population, all of which are approved only for those aged 18 years and above. In its latest communication to the government, Pfizer has also thanked the government of India to have agreed to its request for procurement through a central government pathway and to discuss "the Indemnity and Liability protection".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep rules seek to undermine foundations of democracy, Rahul tells Modi ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in the withdrawal of new regulations in Lakshadweep, saying the rules seek to penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy. In a letter to the prime minister, he said all this is being done by the new Administrator Praful Khoda Patel in the guise of development and maintaining law and order. "I request you to intervene in this matter and ensure that the above-mentioned orders are withdrawn. The people of Lakshadweep deserve a developmental vision that respects their way of life and reflects their aspirations," Gandhi told the prime minister. Noting that Lakshadweep's pristine natural beauty and its unique confluence of cultures have drawn people for generations, he said the custodians of its heritage seek to safeguard the archipelago for posterity. "However, their future is threatened by the anti-people policies announced by the administrator of Lakshadweep, Shri Praful Khoda Patel. The administrator has unilaterally proposed sweeping changes without duly consulting elected representatives or the public. The people of Lakshadweep are protesting against these arbitrary actions," the former Congress chief said. Gandhi said the administrator's attempt to undermine the ecological sanctity of the island is evident in the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation issued recently. The provisions of the regulation, he said, undermine safeguards pertaining to land ownership, dilute environmental regulations for certain activities and severely limit legal recourse available to affected persons. "Livelihood security and sustainable development are being sacrificed for short-term commercial gains. The provision in the draft Panchayat Regulation that disqualifies members with more than two children is blatantly anti-democratic," he said. The Congress leader highlighted that the new administrator has also proposed changes to regulations like the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, the Lakshadweep Animals Preservation Regulation and lifting of restrictions on the sale of alcohol and termed them as a deliberate assault on the cultural and religious fabric of the local community. He said the attempt to cut ties with the Beypore port strikes at the close historical and cultural ties with Kerala. Despite the pandemic, the administration demolished structures used by the fisherfolk, fired contractual workers in various government departments, and relaxed quarantine norms leading to a lethal spike in Covid cases, he charged. "Under the guise of development and maintaining law and order in a low crime union territory, the draconian regulations penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy," Gandhi told the prime minister in his letter. The Congress has been demanding the immediate recall of the Lakshadweep administrator, who it says is a politician and not a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||States to receive 11 lakh Covid vaccines soon||More than 1.84 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs and they will receive over 11 lakh doses within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 22 crore vaccine doses (22,16,11,940) to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 20,17,59,768 doses, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them COVID-19 vaccines free of cost. The Centre has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs. Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination has started from May 1. Under the strategy, every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said. "More than 1.84 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses (1,84,90,522) are still available with states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, 11,42,630 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Concerned about potential threat to freedom of expression, says Twitter||Twitter on Thursday said it was concerned about “the potential threat to freedom of expression” for its users and “the use of intimidation tactics by the police” to its employees in India during “recent events”. In a strongly-worded statement, the microblogging platform said it will “strive to comply with applicable law” and wanted to “advocate for changes to elements of IT rules that inhibit free, open and public conversation”. “Twitter is deeply committed to the people of India. Our service has proven vital for public conversation and a source of support for people during the pandemic. To keep our service available, we will strive to comply with applicable law in India. But, just as we do around the world, we will continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency, a commitment to empowering every voice on the service, and protecting freedom of expression and privacy under the rule of law,” ndtv.com quoted a Twitter spokesperson as saying. “Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve. We, alongside many in civil society in India and around the world, have concerns with regards to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global Terms of Service, as well as with core elements of the new IT Rules. We plan to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian Government and believe it is critical to adopt a collaborative approach. It is the collective responsibility of elected officials, industry, and civil society to safeguard the interests of the public,” the statement added. This is the first time Twitter has broken its silence amid its row with the Centre over the alleged ‘Congress toolkit’. The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Monday sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'Covid toolkit', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media". Two police teams also descended on the microblogging site's offices in Lado Sarai in Delhi and in Gurugram on Monday evening. The new rules require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. The new rules require them to take down any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a robust mechanism to respond to complaints. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. Centre dismisses allegations The government, later in the day, condemned the statement issued by Twitter as baseless, false and an attempt to defame India. The IT ministry asserted that representatives of social media companies, including Twitter, "are and will always remain safe in India", and that there is "no threat to their personal safety and security". The ministry slammed Twitter's statement on Thursday as an attempt to dictate terms to the world's largest democracy. Through its actions and deliberate defiance, Twitter seeks to undermine India's legal system, the ministry added. "Government condemns the unfortunate statement issued by Twitter as totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies," the IT ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||New IT rules designed to prevent misuse of social media, says Prasad||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said that WhatsApp users have nothing to fear about new social media rules, that are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Prasad said that the government welcomes criticism including the right to ask questions. "The rules only empower the ordinary users of social media when they become victims of abuse and misuse," Prasad posted on micro-blogging platform Koo, and also tweeted. The government fully recognises and respects the right of privacy, he asserted. "Ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear about the new Rules. Its entire objective is to find out who started the message that led to commissioning of specific crimes mentioned in the Rules," Prasad added. The new IT rules require the social media companies to set up an India-based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer "so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal", he said. The government on Wednesday had staunchly defended its new digital rules, saying the requirement of messaging platforms like WhatsApp to disclose origin of flagged messages does not violate privacy, and went on to seek a compliance report from large social media firms. The new rules, announced on February 25, require large social media platforms -- defined as those with over 50 lakh users in the country -- to follow additional due diligence, including appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Attack on farmers' camp: HC seeks  Centre, Delhi govt's stand||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and Delhi government on a plea for an independent probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into an alleged attack on farmers camped on the outskirts of the national capital in protest against agri laws on January 29. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Delhi government's Home department and the Alipur police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls, seeking their stand on the petition. The plea has claimed that on January 29 the farmers' camp at Singhu border, between Delhi and Haryana, was attacked by some miscreants "with assistance and guidance of the police personnel" deployed there. The petition has alleged that a criminal complaint in relation to the attack was filed at the Alipur police station against the miscreants and erring officers of the Delhi Police. However, no FIR was lodged. The plea has also claimed that representations were sent to the CBI, the Chief Justice of India, the National Commission for Women and the National Human Rights Commission requesting for proper inquiry to be conducted against the accused persons, but nothing happened. Besides an independent court-monitored probe by SIT, the petition has also sought the preservation of the video footage of the incident as the protest site was covered by police cameras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||India logs over 2.11 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,847 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 infection tally climbed to 2,73,69,093 as 2,11,298 more people tested positive for the disease in a day, while the country's recovery went up to 90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease rose to 3,15,235 with 3,847 fresh fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 21,57,857 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total number of such exams done so far in the country to 33,69,69,353. The daily positivity was recorded at 9.79 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for three consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also declined and now stands at 10.93 per cent. The count of active cases has further reduced to 24,19,907, which is 8.84 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.01 per cent, the data showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,46,33,951, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.15 per cent, it stated. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4. The 3,847 new fatalities include 992 from Maharashtra, 530 from Karnataka, 475 from Tamil Nadu, 193 from Uttar Pradesh, 185 from Punjab, 153 from West Bengal, 151 from Kerala, 130 from Delhi, 107 from Rajasthan and 106 from Haryana. A total of 3,15,235 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 91,341 from Maharashtra, 26,929 from Karnataka, 23,695 from Delhi, 21,815 from Tamil Nadu, 19,712 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,827 from West Bengal, 13,827 from Punjab and 12,779 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi captured in Dominica||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who had recently fled from Antigua and Barbuda, was captured in neighbouring Dominica after an Interpol Yellow Notice was issued against him, the local media reported on Wednesday. Police in Dominica captured Choksi on Tuesday night (local time) after an Interpol Yellow Notice was issued by Antigua and Barbuda. Efforts are on to hand him over to the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda, the local media reports stated. Choksi had been living in Antigua and Barbuda since 2018 after taking the citizenship of the country, Antigua News Room reported. The Yellow Notice is issued by the Interpol to track missing persons. Choksi, who is wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore loan fraud in the Punjab National Bank, was last seen going for dinner in his car in Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday. His staff had reported him missing after his car was found. The businessman's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal had confirmed that Choksi had been missing since Sunday. The reports of Choksi gone missing created flutter in the Carribbeans island country after the opposition raised the issue in Antigua and Barbuda Parliament. Responding to the opposition, Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said that his dispensation was "collaborating" with the Indian government, neighbouring countries and international police organisations to try and locate Choksi. "Someone from his household indicated that he is missing. Since then the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda put out a statement to that effect. That statement will be shared with the Interpol," he had said. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi allegedly siphoned off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB), using fraudulent letters of undertaking. Modi is contesting his extradition lodged in a London jail after repeated denial of his bail by courts. Choksi had taken citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme before escaping India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently. Both are facing a CBI probe. Hand Choksi over to India: Antigua PM Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne has asked neighbouring Dominica, where fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi was caught, to hand the diamantaire over to India directly, local media reported. After news of Choksi's arrest in Dominica came on Tuesday night (local time), Mr Browne told local media that he has given "clear instructions" to the Dominican authorities to repatriate Choksi to India. "We asked them not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him," Antigua News Room, a media outlet, quoted Browne's interaction with journalists in Antigua and Barbuda. Choksi will not have the same rights in Dominica as he has in Antigua and Barbuda, where he had been staying since 2018 after taking citizenship in 2017 under the Citizenship by Investment programme, Mr Browne indicated. The prime minister believes for this reason, it would be easy for Dominica to repatriate him directly to India, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep plans mass petition seeking Praful Khoda Patel's recall||All non-BJP political parties have joined hands to plan a mass petition to the President seeking the recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, whose decisions have caused disruptions and discontent in the Muslim-majority islands. The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party and the CPM are mobilising support for the petition that will be signed by as many people as possible from the Union Territory. Thaha Malika, a district panchayat member from Kavaratti — the capital of the set of 36 islands, of which only 10 are inhabited — told The Telegraph on Wednesday that all political parties and students’ and fisherfolk unions were together in the pursuit to sign the mass petition that would eventually be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind. “The mass petition will reflect the collective feeling of hurt of the islanders who have been leading a peaceful life until the new administrator came and went berserk with his reforms without even consulting us, the elected representatives,” Malika said. While the BJP is not part of the campaign, several local leaders of the party have already resigned and joined the movement against Patel, believed to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Patel, formerly Gujarat home minister under then chief minister Modi, was put in charge of Lakshadweep in December. Patel has been accused of moving to ban beef-eating and cattle transport in a place where beef is widely consumed, cracking down on protests and destroying the fishing infrastructure, with politicians alleging he wants to turn the Union Territory into “another Kashmir”. The first non-civil servant administrator of Lakshadweep has also removed non-vegetarian food from school midday meals and hostel dining hall and introduced a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants that mirrors a Sangh parivar prejudice against Muslims. Unmindful of the widespread protests in the Union Territory and Kerala, Patel has allegedly ordered his officials to prepare a list of government employees to be sacked. He had earlier terminated the services of over 2,000 temporary government workers that has raised fears about “outsiders” being brought in to replace them. Another new legislation, the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, will enable the administration to detain anyone for one year in the islands otherwise known for near-zero crime rate. The Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation empowers the administrator to remove and relocate residents from their properties. Patel has proposed to shift Lakshadweep’s shipping cargo operations from Kerala ports to Mangalore in Karnataka. Located less than 200 nautical miles from Kochi, 99 per cent of Lakshadweep’s population is made up of Muslims. The population is categorised as Scheduled Tribes who speak Malayalam, Jaseri (a Malayalam dialect) and Mahal. They have traditionally had marital ties with families in Kerala and depend on the state, which they call “main land”, for higher education and health care. In another brazen denial of basic rights to the local people who depend on Kerala for emergency and specialised medical care, the Lakshadweep administration has issued an order making it difficult to get air ambulances to ferry patients. While it was hitherto the sole prerogative of the medical director of Lakshadweep to sanction a government-sponsored air ambulance to carry a patient to Kerala, the power would henceforth be vested in a four-member committee comprising the medical director and three other officials.If the committee denies permission, the patients will have to take an 18-hour journey on scheduled shipping services to Kerala. “This will create life-threatening situations as the clearance is going to take a lot of time since the whole committee has to decide. Patients could die,” Asif Ali of the NCP, a district panchayat member from Kavaratti, said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who represents Kerala’s Wayanad in the Lok Sabha, tweeted that “ignorant bigots” were destroying Lakshadweep. “Lakshadweep is India’s jewel in the ocean. The ignorant bigots in power are destroying it. I stand with the people of Lakshadweep,” he tweeted on Wednesday. Ali told this newspaper that the people of Lakshadweep were united in the fight against the “injustice”. One of the 32 ward members who were arrested late December and jailed for 16 days for protesting the administrator’s reforms, Ali said they received bail from Kerala High Court after the local court rejected their pleas. “This is gross injustice to our people who have always been law-abiding citizens of this country. Even the recent protests started only because of the draconian measures initiated by Patel and some of his officials. He is responsible for all the Covid cases here,” Ali said, referring to how the administrator had discarded the strict Covid protocols that made it mandatory for all visitors to spend seven days in quarantine in Kochi and an equal number of days after arriving in the islands. Lakshadweep has so far reported over 7,000 Covid cases and 25 deaths, a big number considering the tiny population of 68,000. “The earlier administrators were very helpful as they took our opinion before taking any major decision. But everything has changed with Patel running the show like Hitler,” Ali said. Kavaratti CPM local committee member P.P. Rahim told this newspaper that the administration was terrorising the residents. “They destroyed a large number of sheds where fishermen kept their boats and nets. They removed non-vegetarian items (mainly beef) from midday meals in schools, citing recommendations from health experts. This is nothing but cultural terrorism,” said Rahim, who is working on the mass petition. But he found comfort in the fact that people and political parties from Kerala have always supported the islanders. “Our advantage is that we are off the Kerala coast and they (Malayalis) have always supported our cause,” Rahim said. Leaders from non-BJP parties in Kerala, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, a large number of film actors, sports people and cultural icons have expressed solidarity with the islanders and condemned Patel’s moves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||No one has the guts to arrest me, says Ramdev ||Yoga guru Ramdev on Wednesday said no one had the guts to arrest him, his declaration coming on a day the Indian Medical Association appealed to the Prime Minister to book the “owner of Patanjali products” on sedition charges for “spreading fear” against Covid vaccination. “Arrest to kisi ka baap bhi nahin kar sakta Swami Ramdev ko, lekin shor macha rahe hain (Not even someone’s father can arrest Swami Ramdev, but they are making a noise),” he told reporters in Haridwar, when asked about the #ArrestRamdev campaign on Twitter. “They are demanding my arrest. Sometimes they call me a thug or maha-thug. It doesn’t matter to me. I have become used to such things,” Ramdev said. Calls for his arrest have come after Ramdev called allopathy a “stupid science” and alleged that lakhs had died after taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19. The IMA sent him a legal notice, demanding an apology and withdrawal of the statement, and also wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Following a letter from the minister, Ramdev withdrew his comments. Dr Jayesh Lele, general secretary of the IMA, on Tuesday said they would file a case of forgery against Ramdev and ensure that he was arrested. “Ramdev was quoted by the media as saying that he has tendered an apology. It is wrong. We had sent him a legal notice on Saturday. The Union health minister also condemned his remark. Then he sent a written letter to the IMA on Sunday evening. He has said many things in the letter but didn’t tender an apology,” Dr Lele said. In the letter to Narendra Modi, the IMA has said: “Painfully we bring to your kind notice the video claiming 10,000 doctors have died in spite of taking both the doses of vaccine and lakhs of people have died due to allopathic medicine… as said by Mr Ramdev, owner of Patanjali products.” The association said that doctors follow the guidelines and protocols issued by the Union ministry of health, through the ICMR or the National Task Force, and if anyone claims allopathic medicines have killed people, “it is an attempt to challenge the ministry, which has issued the protocol for treatment to us”. The IMA added that according to its registry, 753 doctors had died of Covid in the first wave and 513 in the second wave so far. None who died in the first wave were vaccinated and the majority who died in the second wave also could not take their vaccine doses for various reasons, it added. The claim that “10,000 people have died in spite of two doses of vaccination is a deliberate move to stall the efforts of vaccination to reach our masses”, it said. “We appeal to your highness to take appropriate action against individuals viciously propagating the message of fear on vaccination and challenging the government of India protocols for treatment…. This in our opinion is a clear-cut case of a sedition and such persons should be booked immediately without any delay under the charges of sedition,” the IMA wrote to Modi. The IMA has also served a defamation notice on Ramdev, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it would demand a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore. The six-page notice describes his remarks as a “criminal act” under Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code. The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on social media platforms. It further asked him to withdraw a “misleading” advertisement from all platforms endorsing “Coronil kit”, a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for Covid-19, failing which an FIR would be filed. Doctors on Wednesday decried the free distribution of Coronil as a remedy for Covid-19 by the BJP-ruled Haryana government, announced last week. The Centre had earlier said Patanjali could not market the drug as a Covid cure, and it needed to market it as an immunity booster. There is no scientific basis to Coronil’s use in treating Covid-19 patients, said Ajay Khanna, the state secretary of the IMA in Uttarakhand, where Patanjali is based. “If the Haryana government is doing this, then it is their loss,” he told Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Freedom fighter HS Doreswamy dies at 103||Gandhian and freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy passed away on Wednesday after a cardiac arrest at the Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, family sources said. He was 103. “He died of a heart attack at around 1.40pm at the Jayadeva Hospital,” his close confidant Sirimane Nagaraj told PTI. According to him, Doreswamy had contracted Covid on May 8 and was admitted to the Jayadeva Institute for treatment and was discharged on May 13. “However, on May 14, Doreswamy complained of severe weakness. So he was again admitted to the hospital and was there till he breathed his last,” Nagaraj said. He added that the centenarian had asthma and was undergoing treatment for a lungs-related ailment. Doreswamy is survived by a son and a daughter. Born on April 10, 1918, Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy joined the freedom struggle by taking part in the Quit India movement and was jailed for 14 months from 1943 to 1944. The Gandhian had also participated in the Mysore Chalo movement to compel the Mysore Maharaja to accede to the Indian State post-Independence. A bachelor of science from the Central College, Bangalore, Doreswamy joined the teaching profession and tried his hand at journalism by bringing out a newspaper called Pauravani. He was jailed for four months during the Emergency after he sent a letter to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi threatening to launch an agitation against her. Age did not diminish the spirit of Doreswamy and he remained a social activist till his last breath. He had taken part in various agitations till the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. The freedom fighter had taken up the battle against the mining mafia in Karnataka till he ended their dominance. He had taken up the struggle to rid the government land in the clutches of land-grabbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||UP: Minister's brother resigns after fraud EWS certificate ordered||The younger brother of the basic education minister in the Yogi Adityanath government has resigned from the post of assistant professor at Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, saying he was the “son of a Brahmin” and image mattered more to him than the job. “I have tendered my resignation. My only crime is that I am the brother of a minister,” Arun Kumar Dwivedi, the brother of minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi, told reporters in Siddharth Nagar on Wednesday. “I am the son of a Brahmin. My brother’s image is more important to me than my job. I was unnecessarily targeted by our enemies,” he added. A higher education department source said governor Anandiben Patel had ordered a probe into the allegation that Arun had fraudulently obtained an Economically Weaker Section certificate. Arun was appointed in the EWS category on May 21. Someone with a joint family income of less than Rs 8 lakh; less than five acres of land and a house in an area of less than 1000 square metre can qualify for the quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Leaders ready to prolong agitation till 2024 election||Farmer leaders on Wednesday told the community to be ready for a prolonged agitation till the 2024 general election and described the government as a “company sarkar”, an insinuation that its inflexibility on the new farm laws stemmed from its links to big business. “If this were a party sarkar (government), it would have yielded by now. But this is a company sarkar,” Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said in an online interaction with journalists. The event was hosted by the Indian Women’s Press Corps on a day the farmers completed six months of agitation on Delhi’s borders. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation, marked the day as a “black day” as it also coincided with the seventh anniversary of Narendra Modi’s rule over India. No response has so far come to a letter the farmers had written on Friday to the Prime Minister seeking his intervention towards the resumption of talks with the government, which broke down on January 22. Farmers nationwide had been asked to keep in mind the Covid protocols while they observed the “black day” in their villages. But with the border picketing continuing, there were congregations where farmers sported black bands to protest not just the new farm laws but also the way the Modi government was dealing with them. Referring to this mobilisation, Tikait said the farmers were prepared for fresh accusations from the government that they were spreading Covid. “This is nothing new. The government has been doing this repeatedly over the past six months, sometimes trying to divide us by calling it a movement of big farmers, sometimes calling us Khalistanis,” Tikait said. Tikait and Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the BKU (Haryana) refused to speculate on the way forward, except for saying the agitation would continue as long as it took to get the three farm laws repealed and a new law enacted guaranteeing minimum support prices. “We did not know when we started out that this movement would go on this long. The government tried hard to break our resolve but we have not wavered. Instead, we have spread across the country from a movement initially confined to two states,” Tikait said. An SKM statement said: “The Modi government is warned yet again that farmers are not going to retreat from this agitation until their demands are fully met. As the days and months go by, their resolve is only growing stronger, and their support base only expanding. The government can deploy its various repressive tactics, but cannot hope that the farmers will just go back home empty-handed.” SKM leaders said their movement cannot afford to fail, as that would encourage the Centre to continue its repressive behaviour. The farmers believe their campaign against the BJP influenced the results in the five recent Assembly elections, and plan to make similar appeals to the voters of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand next year to back the parties best placed to defeat the BJP. The government is hoping to wear the farmers down while periodically vilifying the movement under various pretexts. After the farmers rejected a January offer to keep the three laws in abeyance for a couple of years, the government has made no fresh suggestions to try and break a deadlock that is technically nearly a year old as Punjab’s farmers had begun agitating last June. Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin has announced his government will move a resolution in the Assembly against the three new farm laws. Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Kerala and Bengal have already passed such resolutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: India's official figures grossly understate true scale of pandemic||The official Covid-19 figures in India grossly understate the true scale of the pandemic in the country. Last week, India recorded the largest daily death toll for any country during the pandemic — a figure most likely still an undercount. Even getting a clear picture of the total number of infections in India is hard because of poor record-keeping and a lack of widespread testing. Estimating the true number of deaths requires a second layer of extrapolation, depending on the share of those infected who end up dying. In consultation with more than a dozen experts, The New York Times has analysed case and death counts over time in India, along with the results of large-scale antibody tests, to arrive at several possible estimates of the true scale of devastation in the country. Even in the least dire of these, the estimated infections and deaths far exceed official figures. The more pessimistic ones show a toll on the order of millions of deaths — the most catastrophic loss anywhere in the world. India’s official Covid statistics report 26,948,800 cases and 307,231 deaths as of May 24. Even in countries with robust surveillance during this pandemic, the number of infections is probably much higher than the number of confirmed cases because many people have contracted the virus but have not been tested for it. On Friday, a report by the World Health Organisation estimated that the global death toll of Covid-19 may be two or three times higher than reported. The undercount of cases and deaths in India is most likely even more pronounced, for technical, cultural and logistical reasons. Because hospitals are overwhelmed, many Covid deaths occur at home, especially in rural areas, and are omitted from the official count, said Kayoko Shioda, an epidemiologist at Emory University. Laboratories that could confirm the cause of death are equally swamped, she said. Additionally, other researchers have found, there are few Covid tests available; often families are unwilling to say that their loved ones have died of Covid; and the system for keeping vital records in India is shaky at best. Even before Covid-19, about four in five deaths in India were not medically investigated. To arrive at more plausible estimates of Covid infections and deaths in India, we used data from three nationwide antibody tests, called serosurveys. In each serosurvey, a subset of the population (about 30,000 of India’s 1.4 billion people) is examined for Covid-19 antibodies. Once researchers have figured out the share of those people whose blood is found to contain antibodies, they extrapolate that data point, called the seroprevalence, to arrive at an estimate for the whole population. The antibody tests offer one way to correct official records and arrive at better estimates of total infections and deaths. The reason is simple: Nearly everyone who contracts Covid-19 develops antibodies to fight it, leaving traces of the infection that the surveys can pick up. Even a wide-scale serosurvey has its limitations, said Dan Weinberger, an associate professor of epidemiology at the Yale School of Public Health. India’s population is so large and diverse that it’s unlikely any serosurvey could capture the full range. Still, Weinberger said, the surveys provide a fresh way to calculate more realistic death figures. “It gives us a starting point,” he said. “I think that an exercise like this can put some bounds on the estimates.” Even in the most conservative estimates of the pandemic’s true toll, the number of infections is several times higher than official reports suggest. Our first, best-case scenario assumes a true infection count 15 times higher than the official number of recorded cases. It also assumes an infection fatality rate, or IFR — the share of all those infected who have died — of 0.15 per cent. Both numbers are on the low end of the estimates we collected from experts. The result is a death toll roughly double what’s been reported to date. The latest national seroprevalence study in India ended in January, before the current wave, and estimated roughly 26 infections per reported case. Our second scenario uses a slightly lower figure, 20, in addition to a higher infection fatality rate of 0.3 per cent — in line with what has been estimated in the US at the end of 2020. In this scenario, the estimated number of deaths in India is more than five times the official count. “As with most countries, total infections and deaths are undercounted in India,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy. “The best way to arrive at the most likely scenario would be based on triangulation of data from different sources, which would indicate roughly 500 to 600 million infections.” The third scenario estimates roughly 26 true infections per known case to account for the current wave. The infection fatality rate is also higher — double the rate of the previous scenario, at 0.6 per cent — to take into account the tremendous stress that India’s health system has been under during the current wave. Because hospital beds, oxygen and other medical necessities have been scarce in recent weeks, a greater share of those who contract the virus may be dying, driving the infection fatality rate higher. Because there are two different unknowns, there is a wide range of plausible values for the true infection and death counts in India, Shioda said. “Public health research usually provides a wide uncertainty range,” she said. “And providing that kind of uncertainty to readers is one of the most important things researchers do.” So far, India has conducted three national serosurveys during the Covid-19 pandemic. All three have found that the true number of infections drastically exceeded the number of confirmed cases at the time in question. The results of the three national serosurveys: At the time the results of each survey were released, they indicated an infection prevalence between 13.5 and 28.5 times higher than India’s reported case counts at those points in the pandemic. The severity of underreporting may have increased or decreased since the last serosurvey was completed, but if it has held steady, that would suggest that almost half of India’s population may have had the virus. (If the official May 24 figure of infections, 26.9 million, is multiplied by 26.1 — the factor by which the latest serosurvey’s estimation of cases exceeded the official count at the time — one gets 702.09 million or about half of India’s population.) Shioda said that even the large multipliers found in the serosurveys may rely on undercounts of the true number of infections. The reason, she said, is that the concentration of antibodies drops in the months after an infection, making them harder to detect. The number would probably be higher if the surveys were able to detect everyone who has been infected, she said. “Those people who were infected a while ago may not have been captured by this number,” Shioda said. “So this is probably an underestimate of the true proportion of the population that has been infected.” Like nearly all the researchers contacted for this article, however, Shioda said the estimator provided a good way to get a sense of the wide range of possible death tolls in India. Many of the infection fatality rate estimates that have been published were calculated before the most recent wave in India, so it could be that the overall IFR is actually higher after accounting for the most recent wave. The rate also varies greatly by age: Typically, the measure rises for older populations. India’s population skews young — its median age is around 29 — which could mean the IFR is lower there than in countries with larger older populations. There is also extreme variability within the country in terms of both infection fatality rate and seroprevalence. In addition to the three national serosurveys, there have been more than 60 serosurveys done at the local and regional levels, according to SeroTracker, a website that compiles serosurvey data from around the world. In a paper examining infection rates using serosurvey data from three locations in India, Paul Novosad, an associate professor of economics at Dartmouth College, found huge variability depending on the population being sampled. “We found that the age-specific IFR among returning lockdown migrants was much higher than in richer countries,” he said. “In contrast, we found a much lower first-wave IFR than richer countries in the southern states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.” In a country as large as India, even a small fluctuation in infection fatality rates could mean a difference of hundreds of thousands of deaths, as seen in the estimates above. While estimates can vary over time and from region to region, one thing is clear beyond all doubt: the pandemic in India is much larger than the official figures suggest. New York Times News Servive Sources: Dr Ingvild Almås, Stockholm University; Dr Murad Banaji, Middlesex University of London; Dr Tessa Bold, Stockholm University; Dr Selene Ghisolfi, Laboratory for Effective Anti-poverty Policies, Bocconi University; Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy; Dr Bhramar Mukherjee, University of Michigan; Dr Paul Novosad, Dartmouth College; Dr Megan O’Driscoll, Cambridge University; Dr Jeffrey Shaman, Columbia University; Dr Kayoko Shioda, Emory University; Rukmini Shrinivasan; Dr Dan Weinberger, Yale School of Public Health. Data on serosurveys conducted in India comes from SeroTracker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: India administered around 45 million fewer jabs in May||India has administered around 45 million fewer Covid-19 vaccine doses during May than it had during April despite the campaign opening this month for all adults 18 years or older and expanding the number of beneficiaries. The Union health ministry’s daily vaccination reports show that India had administered only around 44 million doses between May 1 and May 25 compared with over 89 million doses during April. The total number of doses given was 200,662,456, or over 20 crore, until 7am on Wednesday. The vaccination campaign has over the past week administered an average of about 1.5 million doses every day, compared with an average 2.7 million daily doses during the corresponding week in April. Even if the campaign marks 3 million doses every day for the rest of the month, the cumulative doses in May will be less than 63 million, or about 70 per cent of the vaccines administered in April. Health experts tracking the vaccination campaign are puzzled by the decline in the doses administered at a time when people aged 18 years or older are scrambling for vaccines in states across the country. “Something must be wrong somewhere — either we’re not being told about hiccups that might have interrupted smooth production or the government has overstated the production figures,” said R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. The government’s vaccination campaign currently relies on Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. The Centre, in an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court on May 9, had said the Serum Institute had ramped up production to 65 million doses per month and Bharat Biotech had increased manufacturing to 20 million doses per month. Ramakumar and others believe a production capacity of 85 million doses per month, or about 2.8 million doses every day, should ideally translate into at least 2 million or 2.3 million doses administered daily. Neither the health ministry, nor the Serum Institute, nor Bharat Biotech responded to queries sent by The Telegraph asking about the fewer doses administered during May compared with the doses in April. A senior health ministry official had said earlier this week that rollouts take place only after vaccines pass through stability, sterility and quality checks and this process can take an extra seven to 10 days after production. But vaccine experts familiar with production processes say such post-production checks are routine and occur with every batch of vaccines. “If batch-to-batch production is smooth and uninterrupted, the 7-to-10-day lag should not impact rollout at all,” one expert said. “Each subsequent batch makes up for the lag and procurements and rollout should be smooth.” The Centre had on April 19 announced a revised vaccination strategy under which it would procure 50 per cent of available vaccine doses that would go into inoculating people 45 years or older and states and private hospitals could procure the balance 50 per cent to vaccinate people 18 years or older. Sections of public health experts have described the Centre’s decision to expand the vaccination campaign without making provisions for extra vaccines as an attempt to make states share the blame for vaccine shortages that were imminent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: BJP asks leaders and workers to reach out to villages and extend a helping hand ||The BJP has asked its leaders and workers to reach out to villages and extend a helping hand to Covid-affected people, an apparent attempt to refurbish the image of the Narendra Modi government that has been mauled by its alleged mishandling of the pandemic and the resultant human cost. The BJP drive is to mark the second anniversary of the Modi government’s second stint in power on May 30. The ruling party is keenly feeling the need for damage control at a time the government has faced unprecedented criticism from the Opposition and more unsettlingly for it, from common people, for the tragedy. With Covid patients and their relatives struggling for life-saving oxygen, hospital beds, medicines, and vaccines in woefully short supply, anger at the government has only intensified. BJP chief J.P. Nadda has declared that there would be “no celebration” on the second anniversary. Now in a fresh directive, the BJP has asked ministers, MPs, MLAs and party leaders to visit villages in their areas and connect with the people. “We plan to reach out to over one lakh villages, distribute food grains, sanitisers, masks and other essential items,” a BJP office-bearer said. The leaders have also been instructed to organise blood donation camps. Ministers and party leaders have been asked to ensure that they are seen among the people. Most BJP leaders, including Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, had been missing in action as Covid’s second wave pummelled cities and villages, causing thousands of deaths that clogged crematoriums and graveyards. With the official count of cases slowing, the BJP is preparing to launch an image-correction drive. The ruling party’s attitude contrasts starkly with that of the Congress, which along with its youth wing, has collected tremendous goodwill at home and abroad for reaching out to people with medical and all other assistance. Internally, BJP managers have reviewed messages and comments circulating on social media and concluded that the image of the government and the party has taken an enormous beating during the second Covid wave. “Never in the past have we seen so many negative messages against the government circulating on WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter,” a BJP social media watcher said. To counter the “negative publicity”, the party has started a campaign on Twitter and other social media platforms, stressing how India is valiantly fighting the pandemic under the leadership of Modi. Since the Opposition attack has been focused on Modi, the BJP’s effort is to hail the leadership of the Prime Minister and slam his rivals for “trying to weaken the fight against Covid-19”. “The Modi government has been proactively working to provide medical essentials to every Indian. From remdesivir to hospital beds to liquid oxygen, the central government has left no stone unturned to lead India’s battle against the second wave of Covid,” the BJP tweeted with a video on the steps taken by Modi to tackle the pandemic. BJP leaders are hoping that now that Covid cases are coming down, they will slowly be able to regain the trust of the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: India at the mercy of global vaccine firms, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s mismanagement had pushed India into a quagmire of vaccine shortage, forcing the country with the largest production capacity to be at the mercy of global firms. Asking questions under the “Who is Responsible” series that she started on Facebook on Tuesday to explore the reasons for the havoc caused by the pandemic, Priyanka said: “Why is India, the biggest manufacturer of vaccines in the world, begging for help from other countries? Why is this shameless government presenting even this crisis as its achievement?” The Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, whose decision to target the central government has triggered speculation about the possibility of a bigger role for her in the party in case Rahul Gandhi sticks to his decision not to return as president, added: “On August 15 last year, Modi had said from the ramparts of the Red Fort that his government had drawn up an elaborate vaccination plan. Given India’s vast capacity for vaccine production and tremendous successes in vaccination drives, it was easy to trust that even the Modi government would execute this properly.” Priyanka continued: “But the bitter truth is that the vaccine was turned into an object of personal publicity of the Prime Minister instead of a life-saving instrument for the people from the very beginning. The result is that India is standing in queue for vaccines along with other weaker countries, hoping for the mercy of international firms. How did this happen? Who is responsible?” Pointing out that merely 3 per cent of the population had been fully vaccinated, she said: “There has been a fall of 83 per cent in the vaccination rate after the announcement of the ‘Tika Utsav’ by Modi. Who is responsible? “Now all the responsibility of vaccination has been shifted to the states. Only Modi’s photograph is there on the vaccination certificate. The states are desperately alerting the Centre on shortages. We all know that the government’s vaccine policy has failed.” The Congress leader explained: “Major nations booked orders more than their populations last year itself. The Modi government placed the first order in January 2021 and that too only for 1.6 crore vaccines even as our population is 130 crore. Then 6.5 crore doses were exported between January and March; many countries were gifted vaccines. The government opened vaccination for citizens aged between 18 and 44 on May 1 but ordered only 28 crore doses. This would cover only 14 crore people. When the vaccination plan was ready last year itself, as claimed by the Prime Minister, why was the order for only 1.6 crore vaccines placed in January 2021? Why were vaccines sent abroad at the cost of our own people?” On Monday, Priyanka had assailed the government for its “callousness” and for being a “silent spectator” as the country was engulfed by the pandemic and pledged to apportion responsibility and accountability. “The government of India didn’t have anything to offer except callousness,” she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Congress: Modi government trying to crush citizens’ freedom||The Congress on Wednesday said dictatorial regimes would blush at the brazenness with which the Narendra Modi government was trying to crush citizens’ freedom by enforcing new rules for social media that have invited allegations of political censorship. Messaging platforms will be required to provide access to encrypted messages, which would break privacy protections. On Wednesday, WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in Delhi High Court challenging the new digital rules. According to the new rules, the three-month deadline for compliance with which ended on Wednesday, social media platforms operating in India would have to appoint a resident grievance officer, a chief compliance officer and a nodal contact person. The rules require large social media platforms — those with more than 50 lakh registered users such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — to do “additional due diligence”. The platforms will also now be required to have a physical contact address in India. Arguing that the Modi government should be the new go-to place for all dictators to hone their skills in controlling free speech and thought, Congress spokesperson and constitutional lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the new rules struck at the concept of encryption, which is the technological backbone of privacy. “This is particularly true of messaging apps, the most important subset of social media and digital platforms,” he said. Singhvi said the committee that would monitor content would become the “Big Daddy of control”, acting like social media police, “a digital thana” working under the information technology ministry. His argument was that giving such powers to a regime that slapped sedition charges on people speaking about oxygen crisis during the pandemic, arrested people for putting up posters critical of the Prime Minister and hauled up journalists for negative coverage would strangulate free speech. Lamenting that the government had refused to modify the rules despite unanimous condemnation from all segments of civil and political society, Singhvi said: “The heart and soul of their highly objectionable approach was reflected in Rule 4, which obliges all social media platforms to identify the first originator of the information (in a message) if so directed by the government. “This introduces the requirement of traceability that would break end-to-end encryption. It should be noted that even previous proposals that seek to implement traceability in a manner which is supposedly compatible with end-to-end encryption have been shown to be vulnerable to spoofing where bad actors can falsely modify the originator information to frame an innocent person.” Singhvi said the grounds for such directions had deliberately been kept vague. The rules says that the government may ask social media platforms for the originator of a message “for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution or punishment of an offence related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, or public order”. Singhvi said: “Under Clause 3 (d), all platforms have to remove any content deemed objectionable by an application, not by any court, but by the ministry (with) such broad thresholds…. Under Clause 3(b) (i), the government can command the platform to remove any data on the basis of such utterly broad words like ‘belongs to another person and to which the user does not have any right’. WhatsApp forwards of research or analysis to groups could be stopped under this deliberately overbroad definition.” Pointing out that countless sedition cases had been initiated against citizens for criticising the Prime Minister, Singhvi said: “Any infraction of the rules would… take away the protection given by the parent act…, which exempts the intermediary social media platforms from direct punishment and consequently, any mischievous application… would directly make the social media platform liable for third-party content over which they have no control. The government has forgotten all the safeguards and protections accorded to social media in the landmark Shreya Singhal case.” The Congress leader asserted that the rules also violate the principles of privacy elaborated in the Puttaswamy judgment of a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in 2017. The court had held that the right to privacy is protected as a fundamental right under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. “If this ‘Big Daddy’ does not agree with the self-regulation done by the social media platform itself at Level-1 or disagrees with the decision of the self-regulation institutional body at Level-2, Rules 13 and 14 allow an inter-departmental government committee to make recommendations overruling the Level-1 and Level-2 decisions, exercising direct content censorship and empowering itself to direct that content of any person or sender or publisher to be blocked…,” Singhvi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Central Vista: CPWD to transplant 1,838 trees from IGNCA compund||The central public works department has decided to transplant 1,838 trees from the compound of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, which is to be demolished for the construction of three office buildings under the Central Vista redevelopment project. According to the department, the successful bidder will have to transplant the trees in 60 days and maintain them for 365 days. The project will cost around Rs 1.86 crore, the CPWD has said. Last month, the CPWD had invited bids for the three new office buildings that will come up on the plot where the Indira Gandhi Centre now stands, and be part of the common central secretariat. They are to be built at a cost of Rs 3,269 crore, with Rs 139 crore set aside for five years’ maintenance. According to the PWD, the trees will be shifted within the site or near it. The document inviting bids says there are 2,219 trees on plot number 137, of which 1,838 are to be transplanted. Of these, 1,150 trees have girths up to 50cm while 401 have girths between 50cm and 90cm. The girth and height of each tree will be measured and recorded, and the agency hired for the job will submit photographs of each tree before translocation. “Lifting of trees shall be carried out or supervised by a qualified and/ or suitably experienced person and crane operator using a crane and supports. It shall be ensured that there is no  damage to the soil ball or any scratching and splitting of the root system. The tree should be kept intact without injuries to its root system, trunk and crown,” the PWD has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
27-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha coast, two dead||At least two persons were killed as Cyclone Yaas made landfall between north Dhamra in Bhadrak and south of Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday morning and left behind a trail of destruction. While the first death was reported from Keonjhar district where Purna Chanra Nayak was killed when a branch of a banyan tree fell on him in an area under Ghasipura police station, the other casualty occurred in Balasore town where 22-year-old Mantu Jena succumbed to injuries after a tree branch crashed down on him. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena confirmed the two deaths were caused by the cyclone. “A large number of large trees were uprooted in the Nilagiri area of Balasore and Betnoti of Mayurbhanj district. The next 12 hours are important for Mayurbhanj district. There has been waterlogging in 120 villages. We have started relief and rescue operations,” he said. He added: “The cyclone is yet to pass over. We will know the extent of the damage by tomorrow. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has given direction to monitor the health of those who have been evacuated, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Accredited social health activists (Asha) and other workers will visit each household and get feedback. We will prepare an action plan on Thursday morning.” Roads were covered with uprooted trees, twisted electricity poles and blown thatched roofs of houses in the interior areas of Balasore and Bhadrak districts which bore the brunt of the very severe cyclonic storm that hit the coast with wind speeds reaching 150km per hour. High tidal waves inundated low-lying residential areas in several places in Balasore and Bhadrak, leading the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force to move affected people to safer places. The cyclone’s landfall that began around 9am on Wednesday morning continued till 1pm during which period high velocity winds and heavy rainfall lashed the north coastal belt, especially Balasore and Bhadrak. The districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Mayurbhanj, too, witnessed torrential rains. Seawater entered many villages in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Kendrapara. Seawater inundated areas up to 4km in Baliapal block of Balasore. Jena said that tidal waves rising up to four metres have entered many areas. While the ingress of saline water due to high tide was seen in areas like Paradip, Raj Kanika and Raj Nagar areas in Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts, the cyclone affected Bhograi block of Balasore badly. Waterlogging was witnessed in Basudevpur area of Bhadrak district and in Basta and Baliapal areas in Balasore. “High tides were noticed in the coastal belt as it is a full moon today,” an official said. At Nuagaon in Basudevpur, people cut off the main road to prevent water from entering their houses. “Because of heavy rainfall, 10 villages have been cut off. We need to cut off the road otherwise, the water will enter our houses. Many thatched houses have already collapsed,” said a villager. Cyclone Yaas disrupted power supply in most of the affected areas of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur. A large number of trees have also been uprooted at the integrated missile testing range at Chandipur in Balasore. At north Dhamra, where the landfall process began, the cyclone had the maximum impact. However, 15,000 people residing in the low-lying areas were evacuated. Ahead of the arrival of the cyclone, nearly 7 lakh people were evacuated in the coastal districts, which were in the eye of the storm. “We had to literally force people out of their homes and make them wear masks before putting them in government cyclone shelters,” an official said. The cyclone, however, spared Puri. No major damage was reported from the district. As the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had removed the scaffoldings put up around the Shree Jagannath Temple for repairs, there was no damage to the structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
