28-05-2021||India||Mamata skipping meeting with Modi is ‘murder of Constitution’, says Nadda||Hitting out at Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for skipping a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the state on Cyclone Yaas, BJP president J P Nadda on Friday accused her of "murder of constitutional ethos and the culture of cooperative federalism". Nadda said Modi holds the principle of cooperative federalism "very sacred" and has been actively working with all chief ministers irrespective of their party affiliation to give relief to people but unsurprisingly, he added, Mamata's “tactics and petty politics” have once again come to haunt the people of Bengal. "When PM Narendra Modi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of Cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM's meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism," he tweeted. Modi visited Odisha and Bengal and held review meetings in both the states on the post-cyclone situation. While Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik attended the meeting with Modi, Mamata skipped the review meeting in her state. She, however, submitted a report to the prime minister on the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state, and sought a Rs 20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. As the Bengal chief minister, Mamata's relations with the central government and the BJP top brass have been far from smooth as she has often accused them of using central agencies and also the governor's office to harass her government. The BJP has denied the charge and often claimed that she has used the state machinery to target its members and accused her of not adhering to constitutional properties in her dealings with the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||Covaxin manufacturing to supply takes 4 months, says Bharat Biotech||Manufacturing to supply of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin involves four months of lag time depending on technology and regulatory approvals, Bharat Biotech said on Friday. "The timeline for manufacturing, testing and release for a batch of Covaxin is approximately 120 days, depending on the technology framework and regulatory guidelines to be met. Thus, production batches of Covaxin that were initiated during March this year will be ready for supply only during the month of June," the vaccine maker said in a press release. Bharat Biotech's clarification comes at a time when the country is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, leading to disruptions in the nationwide inoculation programme. "There is a four-month lag time forCovaxin to translate into actual vaccination," it said. The manufacturing, testing, release and distribution of vaccines are complex and multifactorial processes with hundreds of steps, requiring a diverse pool of human resources, the firm said. For vaccines to result in actual vaccination of people, highly coordinated efforts are required from international supply chains, manufacturers, regulators and State and Central government agencies, it said. Production scale-up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory SOPs of GMP (Standard Operating Procedures of Good Manufacturing Practices), Bharat Biotech said. Based on Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) guidelines, all vaccines supplied in India are mandated by law to be submitted for testing and release to the Central Drugs Laboratory, Government of India. All batches of vaccines supplied to State and Central Governments are based on the allocation framework received from the Centre, the company said. The timeline for vaccine supplies to reach the depots of the State and Central Governments from Bharat Biotech's facilities is around two days. The vaccines received at these depots have to be further distributed by the State Governments to various districts within their respective states. This requires an additional number of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||Can’t even imagine the pain of Covid orphans, says SC||Observing that it cannot even imagine how many children in this large country have got orphaned due to the devastating Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court Friday directed the State authorities to immediately identify them and provide relief. The top court asked state governments to understand the agony of children starving on the streets and directed the district authorities that they be immediately taken care of without waiting for any further orders from the courts. A vacation bench of Justices L N Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed district administrations to identify the orphans in their areas and upload their data on the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) website by Saturday evening. The top court's direction came on an application filed by amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal in the pending suo motu case seeking identification of orphaned children due to Covid-19 or otherwise and providing them immediate relief by the state governments. The bench said state governments must inform it of the position of these children and the steps they have taken to provide them immediate relief. “We have read somewhere that in Maharashtra over 2,900 children have lost their one or both the parents due to Covid-19. We don't have an exact number of such children. We cannot even imagine how many such children in this large country have got orphaned due to this devastating pandemic,” the bench said. It told the state government's counsel appearing in the matter, I hope you understand the agony of the children starving on the streets. “You please ask the state authorities to immediately take care of their basic needs.” The top court noted that the Centre has already issued advisory to the concerned authorities for the protection of children, who have lost their parents due to Covid-19. “There is an obligation on the part of the authorities to ensure such children in need are taken care of,” the bench said, while referring to various provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. It said the district administration authorities should upload the latest data of such orphaned children on the website Baal Swaraj' of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) by Saturday evening. “We are of the opinion that Centre and State shall get the latest information on the identification of children, who have lost their one or both the parents due to pandemic and the steps taken to attend to their basic needs,” it said, and listed the matter on June 1. At the outset, Agrawal said that he has filed the application as there are numerous children, who have lost one or both the parents or guardians due to the Covid and they need to be immediately taken care of by the state governments. He said there are two categories of children adversely affected due to the Covid-19 -- the ones who lost both parents/guardians and those who have lost the earning parent/guardian of the family since March 2020. Agrawal said another issue of concern is that there are increased instances of child trafficking, especially of the girl child. “The situation is likely to become acute as the number of families adversely affected by the second wave of Covid-19 is perhaps higher,” he said. “It is imperative that the functionaries under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 as also the state governments take steps to identify vulnerable families, that is families who have children and have lost livelihood due to Covid-19,” he added. He further said that they should be provided assistance in terms of food, ration, clothing, other necessities and financial help (to the extent possible), and assistance in locating temporary employment under government schemes. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, said the government has already issued an advisory to the state government to ensure that children orphaned or in need are taken care of. She said the NCPCR has already developed a portal and is tracking such children who got orphaned due to the pandemic. Advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, appearing for NCPCR, said that they have a portal called 'Baal Swaraj' to track such children and officers at the district level have been given passwords to upload their data on the centralised portal to ensure their tracking. In the application, Agrawal said that coordinated efforts by district administration, the district police and the functionaries under Juvenile Justice Act like Child Welfare Committees for identification and providing support was needed. It is humbly suggested that state governments may consider setting up a District Task Force in “each district having representatives from the district administration (like SDM), the police authorities (like DSP) and the functionaries under JJ Act, which would be tasked with the identification of vulnerable families and providing assistance that is food, ration, clothing, other necessities and financial assistance to vulnerable families,” the application said. It sought direction to state governments to take concrete steps to identify victims of child trafficking, children who have lost their parent/guardian(s)/earning parent/ guardian, and children whose families have lost all means of livelihood due to the present pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi over his remark on Covid vaccination||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Covid vaccination programme, saying the kind of language the Congress leader used and the way he tried to stoke "fears" has confirmed that the "toolkit" was produced by his party. Speaking to reporters, senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar also cited recent remarks of the Health Ministry to assert that the inoculation exercise in India will be completed by December this year. The ministry has given a roadmap about producing 216 crore doses by December and how 108 crore people will be vaccinated, he said. Gandhi's choice of words like "nautanki" for the prime minister at a time when Modi is working to curb COVID-19 is part of the toolkit's script, the minister alleged, referring to a controversial document about targeting the government. The BJP has claimed that the Congress is behind it, a charge the opposition party has rejected. It has instead blamed the BJP and sought police probe into the matter. "It has been confirmed, and there is no need for any evidence. It is clear that the toolkit was produced by you. The kind of language you used and the way you tried to stoke confusion and fear among people is part of that politics," Javadekar said. What Gandhi has said is an insult to the country and people, he added. With over 20 crore doses being administered so far, India is second in the world and the vaccination is set to see a big jump from August, he said, rebutting the Congress leader's criticism about the alleged slow pace of the country's inoculation programme. The BJP leader said Gandhi should rather be concerned about the Congress-ruled states as they have not been able lift their quota from vaccine producers. Noting that Gandhi had stressed the importance of vaccination, he said this is what the government has been saying and working on from the beginning and cited the production of two vaccines in India. When Covaxin was produced indigenously, Congress leaders created doubts about its safety while Modi put any such question to rest by opting for this jab, the minister said. Gandhi had earlier asked the government to evolve a vaccine strategy for the entire population, warning of multiple waves of the virus at the current rate of vaccination. It was time Modi to be a leader and show that he can organise vaccines for everyone, he said, accusing the prime minister of not thinking strategically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||Modi’s actions responsible for second wave of coronavirus, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the government to evolve a Covid-19 vaccine strategy for the entire population, warning of multiple waves of the virus at the current rate of vaccination. Noting that India was the vaccine capital of the world and it was possible to escalate the inoculation drive, Gandhi said it was time for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be a leader and show that he can organise vaccines for everyone. "In my understanding, going by the current rate of vaccination guarantees the third wave of the virus. If vaccination was 50-60 per cent you would not have a third wave and certainly not the fourth," he told a press conference. He said going by today's pace of vaccinations, the entire inoculation exercise will be completed by May 2024 and several waves of Covid will come. He said lockdown, masks and social distancing are temporary solutions, but vaccination is a permanent solution to Covid and the government must evolve a strategy. The former Congress chief said there is no vaccine strategy in place. "The prime minister created space for Covid through his actions, he is responsible for the second wave," he charged. Gandhi accused the prime minister of not thinking strategically. He also accused the government and the prime minister of "lying" on the Covid death rate and urged it to not give the virus time or space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||Delhi to begin Covid unlock process gradually, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said Delhi has somehow gained control over the second wave of COVID-19 and the city will now start the process of lifting the lockdown gradually. He, however, said the fight against the virus has not ended. "At a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Friday, it was decided that the lockdown be lifted gradually. In the process, we have to take care of the lowest strata first ... daily wagers, labourers, migrant workers," he said. It has been decided to open factories and allow construction activities, Kejriwal said. Every week, based on experts' and public opinion, the government will continue the unlock process, he said. "After facing so many problems, we have gained control over the 2nd wave somehow. This doesn't mean the fight has ended.The situation is under control for now. In the last 24 hours, the positivity rate stood at around 1.5 percent."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||Narendra Modi meets Naveen Patnaik to review damage caused by Cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday reviewed the post-cyclone situation and damages caused by Cyclone Yaas at a meeting in Bhubaneswar. The Prime Minister was received by Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here. The review meeting, which is currently underway in the airport conference hall, is expected to continue till mid-day. Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145 kmph whiplashed parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and flooded farmland, forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in the states of Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. After the havoc caused by the cyclone, heavy post- cyclone rains on Thursday has seen river water levels rising above the danger mark, placing four districts of Odisha - Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Keonjhar - on high alert. The Prime Minister was scheduled to leave for Bengal at 12.10 pm after an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts in Odisha. There, he is scheduled to meet Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to review the devastation caused by cyclone Yaas. The meeting is scheduled to be held at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday afternoon after Modi undertakes an aerial survey of the affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
28-05-2021||India||Daily Covid caseload in India lowest in 44 days||The single day rise in coronavirus cases in India fell below the 2-lakh mark for the second time this month, while the recoveries continue to outnumber daily cases for the 15th consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 1,86,364 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day, the lowest in around 44 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,75,55,457. The death toll climbed to 3,18,895 with 3,660 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily COVID-19 count in India last fell below the 2-lakh mark on May 25. Also, 20,70,508 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 33,90,39,861. The daily positivity rate has declined to 9 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for four consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has further declined to 10.42 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 15th consecutive day, it said. The active cases have further reduced to 23,43,152 comprising 8.50 per cent of the total infections with a net decline of 76,755 cases in the active caseload in 24 hours, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,48,93,410 and the case fatality rate has increased to 1.16 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,660 new fatalities include 884 from Maharashtra, 476 from Karnataka, 474 from Tamil Nadu, 187 from Uttar Pradesh, 181 from Kerala, 177 from Punjab, 148 from West Bengal, 117 from Delhi and 104 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,18,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 92,225 from Maharashtra, 27,405 from Karnataka, 23,812 from Delhi, 22,289 from Tamil Nadu, 19,899 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,975 from West Bengal, 14,004 from Punjab and 12,848 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. The ministry also said that cumulatively 20.57 crore number of COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country. India is the second country after the US to achieve the vaccination landmark of 20 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Dominica court stops 'removal' of Choksi from country||A court in Dominica has "restrained" authorities from "removing" fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi from the Caribbean island country till further orders, local media reported. The order came on a petition filed by the lawyers of Choksi, who was detained in Dominica for "illegal entry". "The legal team has filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica for Mehul Choksi and have also highlighted deprivation of access to Mehul Choksi and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal told PTI. The High Court of Justice in Dominica "restrained" the authorities from "removing" Choksi till further orders and listed the matter for hearing on Friday (May 28 at 9 am local time), Antigua News Room reported. On Thursday, Aggarwal had raised doubts about the way Choksi had gone missing from Antigua and Barbuda only to be detained in Dominica, about 100 nautical miles away, for illegal entry. Choksi's lawyer in Dominica, Wayne Marsh, had told a radio show that in a brief interaction with his client, allowed by authorities after a lot of efforts, the diamantaire had claimed that he was picked up at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by men looking like Indian and Antiguan policemen and was put in a vessel. Marsh had said he saw marks on the body of Choksi who had swollen eyes and feared for his life. He said Choksi is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda and not India hence he should be sent back. Aggarwal called the entire episode of Choksi's mysterious disappearance and detention in Dominica "fishy". "Lawyers for Choksi in Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica have been trying to have a legal interview with him as per his constitutional rights but they were denied access to him. After great effort they were able to speak to Choksi for two minutes during which he narrated a horrifying experience which is an eye-opener and vindicates my stand that he would not have gone from Antigua voluntarily," Aggarwal said. He said that after being taken from Antigua, Choksi was kept somewhere and then on Monday he was taken to a police station. Since then, he has been there and this news to the world was broken only on Wednesday, and there were marks on his body, Aggarwal said. "There is something fishy and I guess it was a strategy to take him to another country so that there are chances of sending him back to India. So I don't know what forces are operating. Only the time will tell," he said. Choksi, who is wanted in a Rs 13,500-crore loan fraud in the Punjab National Bank, was last seen going for dinner in his car in Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday. His staff had reported him missing after his car was found. On Thursday (Indian time), the Dominica government confirmed his presence on its soil, saying he has been "detained" for illegal entry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Unemployment rate surveyors rebut labour ministry's ‘bias’ charge||A private research group that has detected a steady rise in unemployment over the past four weeks has defended its methodology against attempts by central government officials to question its surveys’ credibility. Labour ministry officials have alleged an “urban bias” in the sampling done for the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), which releases urban, rural and national unemployment figures for every week, month, quarter and year. According to the CMIE, the national unemployment rate rose to 14.73 per cent in the week ending May 23 from 14.45 per cent in the previous week — an increase of 0.28 points. Its survey showed urban unemployment rising to 17.41 per cent from 14.71 per cent (plus 2.70 points) and rural unemployment slipping from 14.34 per cent to 13.52 per cent (a change of minus 0.82 points). The CMIE had earlier estimated that 73 lakh jobs, including 34 lakh salaried jobs, were lost in April this year. A senior labour ministry official told this newspaper the CMIE’s findings did not provide the true picture because: ⦾ The surveys are based on a “fixed panel survey” selected 7 to 8 years ago — that is, the surveys have been questioning the same set of households over the past 7 to 8 years. The ministry official suggested that samples should be picked randomly during each survey. ⦾ The surveys have an “urban bias” and can therefore not “adequately capture any significant changes in employment in rural areas”. “The said (CPHS) sample consists of 63.63 per cent of households from urban areas while the share of such households in the population is about 30 per cent. Thus, there is a skew in favour of urban households. This is likely to create a distortion in the employment picture,” the official said, requesting anonymity. ⦾ The CPHS surveys only households and not establishments, which could have provided data on recruitments and job creation. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas answered the charges, saying: ⦾ The surveys did sample a larger number of urban households to capture all the nuances, but gave rural households a greater and appropriate weightage while calculating the overall national figure. “The CMIE’s CPHS has a larger urban sample because of the greater variance in urban India compared to rural India. It is statistically sound to get a larger sample from a population that has greater variance. This is not a bias; it’s a survey design construct,” Vyas said. That the latest CMIE survey’s national unemployment figure shows a rise of 0.28 points — far closer to the rural figure of minus 0.82 points than the urban figure of plus 2.70 points — seems to support Vyas’s contention. ⦾ “A fixed panel sample has many advantages, the most important being that it permits us to understand change over time much better,” Vyas said. “It’s possible to study migration from one state to another much better with a fixed sample. This has helped researchers at Azim Premji University understand the migration of people towards informality (the informal sector) during the pandemic, for example, by using the CMIE’s CPHS data.” ⦾ Vyas said he welcomed any survey that supplemented the CMIE’s findings with an analysis of data from establishments. In March, the Centre had told Parliament that it only considered official surveys for policy-making. The government’s National Statistical Office conducts the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) every year to explore the employment situation. The labour bureau, a labour ministry arm, last month launched the All India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey to study the jobs created by registered establishments and small-scale units. The latest published PLFS findings relate to the financial year 2018-19. They show a pre-Covid unemployment rate of 5.8 per cent. Earlier, the Centre had held back the findings of the PLFS for 2017-18 by several months ahead of the 2019 general election. Published eventually in May 2019, the survey showed a four-decade-high unemployment rate of 6.1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccination near home for the elderly and differently-abled||The Centre on Thursday issued guidelines for vaccinations near home, which will make it easier for the elderly and the differently abled to get inoculated against Covid. People aged above 60 who have not been vaccinated or have had just the first dose, and those below 60 but with special needs, will be eligible for jabs at the “near to home Covid vaccination centres” or NHCVCs, the health ministry said. These centres are “for elderly and differently abled citizens”, the ministry said. They can be set up at places that are not health facilities — such as community halls, residents’ welfare association offices, panchayat ghars, school buildings, old age homes and polling booths, according to guidelines sent to the states and Union Territories. These sites can be sub-health centres or health and wellness centres too. A district task force or urban task force will choose the location of the near-home vaccination centre to best serve the target population, reduce vaccine waste, and cause the least impact on existing health services. The choice will be made in collaboration with community groups and residents’ welfare associations. Each near-home vaccination centre will be linked to an existing covid vaccination centre, with its official-in-charge assigned the responsibility of providing vaccines, logistics and human resources. A near-home centre should have a vaccination room and a waiting area with appropriate access for the target group, for example a ramp for wheelchair access and an observation room for the mandatory 30-minute wait after vaccination. Each team at such a centre will have five members: a team leader (necessarily a doctor), vaccinator, vaccination officer 1 for Co-WIN registration and/ or verification of the beneficiary, and vaccination officers 2 and 3 who will ensure crowd control and 30 minutes’ post-vaccination observation of beneficiaries, and provide assistance to the vaccinator or any other support. Where there is a group of target beneficiaries under one roof, such as an old age home, the near-home centre can be organised at the site. Once identified, each near-home vaccination centre will be registered on the Co-WIN portal. The guidelines allow advance or on-site registration of beneficiaries, including the option of “facilitated cohort registration” (in groups) on Co-WIN. The guidelines mandate facilitating the travel of the elderly and the differently abled to the vaccination sites wherever needed, and making the vaccination centre friendly to the beneficiaries. Delhi High Court on Thursday sought the Centre and the Delhi government’s response on a plea seeking directions to them to ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines for residents, especially in the 18-44 age group, of the national capital. The plea was filed by a lawyer who has contended that the residents of the  capital should not suffer as a result of the “blame game” between the two governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Twitter slams authorities for trying to intimidate its employees in India||The Narendra Modi government and Twitter were locked in a bitter war of words on Thursday over alleged attempts to curb free speech after the US-based social media giant slammed the authorities for trying to intimidate its employees in India. Delhi police had visited one of Twitter’s offices in Gurgaon after the post of a BJP leader was tagged as “manipulated media”. “We have concerns with regard to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global terms of service as well as with the core elements of the new IT rules,” Twitter said in a statement. “Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve,” Twitter added. “We plan to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian government and believe it is critical to adopt a collaborative approach,” the statement added. Twitter also asked for three more months’ time to comply with the new regulations, which include the appointment of an Indian grievance officer to deal with complaints. The rules came into effect on Wednesday. The government retaliated in the evening by questioning Twitter’s locus “to dictate its terms to the world’s largest democracy”. “Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit entity like Twitter,” the ministry said in a statement, adding that the microblogging platform should disabuse itself of the notion that it could appropriate to itself the right to engage in a collaborative approach with the government of a sovereign democratic republic to “safeguard the interests of the public”. The ministry said Twitter had a large user base in India and earned substantial revenues in the country but was reluctant to institute a redress mechanism “to whom its own users can complain when they are subjected to offensive tweets”. “Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land,” the government said while asserting that the “representatives of social media companies including Twitter are and will always remain safe in India and there is no threat to their personal safety and security”. “The only instance of scuttling free speech on Twitter is Twitter itself and its opaque policies as a result of which people’s accounts are suspended and tweets deleted arbitrarily without recourse,” the statement added. Supporters of the Modi government have been demanding that the authorities should pull the plug on Twitter — a move that could only fan criticism against an increasingly authoritarian regime. The Delhi police also issued a statement which accused Twitter of trying to seek “dubious sympathy when they themselves not only refuse to comply with the law of the land but also claim to be in possession of material evidence but refuse to share it with the legal authority”. Last week, police officers had tried to serve a notice to the US firm over its failure to remove a “manipulated media” label that it had placed on a tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on an allegedly forged Covid “toolkit” that had been ascribed to the Congress. Twitter has been locked in a battle with the government over the past few months after it refused to comply with the Centre’s requests to block messages that ridiculed the Modi administration’s mishandling of the pandemic and crude attempts to quell farmer protests over legislation that they fear would allow large companies to grab control over the country’s farm economy. The new IT rules have turned into a red rag for social media platforms. On Wednesday, Facebook-owned WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in Delhi High Court challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, arguing that its provisions were unconstitutional and against people’s fundamental right to privacy which has been upheld by the Supreme Court. The battle over the new IT rules is now expected to escalate with neither the government nor the media platforms ready to back down. Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “India is carving out its own distinctive new legal jurisprudence on intermediaries by insisting on the criminal liability of such platforms. Hence, till such time the court of law does not set aside or stay the operations of the IT Rules, they will have to be complied with by all intermediaries.” He added: “It is also high time that India give a solid message of deterrence. India should not allow commercial exploitation of its market by social media platforms that do not wish to comply with Indian laws. At the end of the day, a golden balance will have to be reached between ensuring the protection of sovereign interests of the country on the one hand and the protection of individual rights and privacy of individuals on the other.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Life and death album from hinterland tells a tale we don’t want to hear||Pramila Devi’s shrouded body lay on a bier, resting on a rock on the banks of a muddy Ganga. The 36-year-old mother of three had died the previous night in a village in Uttarakhand, a day after testing positive for Covid-19. Pramila’s death on Sunday is a sign of how poverty, fear and a lack of facilities are adding to Covid-19 fatalities in remote villages, where many shun tests for fear of testing positive and being forced to go to hospital far from home. India’s Covid-19 caseload stands at 27.16 million, with 311,388 deaths, central government data from May 26 show. But some experts estimate the numbers are far higher, due in part to low testing rates in India’s hinterlands where Covid-19 cases are spreading rapidly. Pramila’s eldest daughter got married and moved away in late April after the family hosted a ceremony attended by over two dozen people, her husband Suresh Kumar, 43, told Reuters. Two weeks after that, Pramila suffered a bout of diarrhoea. But it was not until 10 days later that Kumar, who has no income and depends on handouts, took her to a nearby dispensary that has been turned into a small Covid-19 facility with four beds. The dispensary is equipped with one oxygen cylinder and one concentrator, said Aishwary Anand, the only doctor there. Pramila tested positive for Covid-19 with very low blood oxygen levels. Anand advised Kumar to take her to a bigger hospital, but costs were a deterrent. The couple returned home, where their two other children — a 16-year-old boy and a 10-year-old girl —were waiting. The next day Pramila’s nephew carried her to a creaky taxi, which returned her to the dispensary. Another patient was using the oxygen cylinder and the oxygen concentrator did not work because of a power outage. “We need power,” Anand pleaded with an electricity department employee over the phone, as he paced the dispensary wearing white protection gear. Eventually power was restored, Pramila had access to the concentrator and felt well enough to return home. But when she felt sick again, the family called an ambulance to take her back to the clinic, where she was pronounced dead on arrival. “I’m yet to inform my eldest daughter of her mother’s death,” a distraught Kumar said, crouched on the banks of the Ganga. Uttarakhand, which shares its borders with China and Nepal, reported 45,568 Covid-19 cases and 6,020 fatalities as of May 25. Its city of Haridwar recently hosted the weeks-long Kumbh Mela gathering that saw hundreds of thousands of ash-smeared ascetics and devout Hindus jostling to take a dip in the Ganga. Some experts fear that the event led to a surge in Covid-19 infections both in the crammed city and other parts of India as devotees returned home. On the eastern edge of Haridwar, Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district —where Pramila’s family live — has reported 5,155 Covid-19 cases and 241 deaths. But locals and doctors say many in the district who are suffering Covid-like symptoms refuse to get tested or test too late. “We’ve launched radio and newspaper campaigns to spread awareness about Covid and encourage testing,” said Manoj Kumar Sharma, the district’s top health official. “But despite our efforts there is some resistance in rural areas to getting tested.” Reuters reporters hiked uphill with medics for over an hour to get to Pitha, a village in the district with no road access. There, Jai Prakash, 38, had pleaded with his neighbours to get tested. Despite his appeals, only a dozen of the village’s nearly 60 inhabitants did so. Only nine among the around 200 residents of the nearby village of Tangroli — declared a Covid-19 containment zone with more than a dozen positive patients — showed up for testing the day a medical team camped outside their village. “My neighbour did not want to get tested,” said Deepak Singh, who works for a company in New Delhi but returned to his village this month. “He asked me if I was willing to take care of his household expenses if he tested positive.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala Assembly to move resolution against reforms rolled out by administrator||The Kerala Assembly is planning to move a resolution against the controversial reforms being rolled out by the Lakshadweep administrator after several lawmakers from across the political spectrum extended support to the cause of the islanders. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is likely to move the resolution next week, leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress extended support to ensure its smooth passage. Newly appointed Speaker of the Assembly, M.B. Rajesh, on Thursday told reporters that there were several suggestions for a resolution against the goings on in Lakshadweep. “Suggestions (for a resolution) have been coming from several people and they will be considered,” the Speaker said. The state Assembly had earlier moved a resolution against the citizenship matrix and another one against the contentious farm laws. Satheesan condemned the controversial reforms being carried out by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel who took over in December. In the first official reaction, Lakshadweep collector S. Asker Ali addressed reporters in Kochi to justify the measures taken. He insisted they were being done to turn the isles into another Maldives by ushering in tourism projects. When reporters asked him about the logic in bringing a law that would empower the police to detain anyone for a year without trial, Ali reasoned that it would “apply only to those who engage in anti-social activities. We are not going to arrest anyone and everyone”. In justifying the law that has attracted widespread criticism, Ali pointed out how the Indian Coast Guard seized 300kg of heroin, four AK 47 rifles and a thousand live rounds from a boat near Minicoy island, one of the 36 islands that make the Union territory. Pressed for an answer about the boat and its crew, the officer hesitatingly said: “This is a foreign boat, but it happened around Minicoy.” The coast guard had in March seized the Sri Lankan-flagged boat carrying the contraband off Minicoy in the international shipping channel and there was no involvement of anyone from Lakshadweep. Ali accused local youths of engaging in drug abuse and drug trafficking and said the administration could not take a chance. Asked for the number of drug abuse cases, Ali said there were 40 of them in the last two years, but quickly added: “It’s not just about the cases or numbers. It’s about the sense of insecurity among the youth.” He, however, repeatedly admitted that Lakshadweep was a very peaceful place and the crime rate was very low. “No doubt Lakshadweep is very peaceful. It will remain peaceful,” but contradicted himself by adding: “This is an exotic island so anything can happen anytime.” On the controversial two-child norm being brought for contesting polls, Ali said it would apply only in case two children were born after the notification of the law. But he didn’t go into details about the logic of such a legislation in a place where the birth rate is equal to that of mainland Kerala and among the lowest in the country. On banning beef from mid-day meals, he said many states had already enacted laws against cow slaughter. “Many states have enacted cow protection laws. A law has been introduced in Lakshadweep along the same lines. Only those who are associated in illegal business and those who have personal interests are propagating against these legislations. He also blamed “vested interests” while alluding to other contentious legislations such as the Goonda Act. On the allegation of scrapping non-vegetarian dishes from mid-day meals at schools, Ali said fish and eggs were still allowed. The Lakshadweep administration has rejected a request from the AICC to send a party delegation to study the issues in the isles. “The administrator rejected our request by taking Covid as a pretext,” Lakshadweep Congress president and former Lok Sabha member Hamdullah Saeed told The Telegraph on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Rahul seeks PM intervention to withdraw measures brought by Lakshadweep administrator||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his immediate intervention to withdraw the draconian measures brought by the Lakshadweep administrator, which have triggered unrest in the islands. Arguing that the people of Lakshadweep deserve a developmental vision that respects their way of life and reflects their aspirations, Rahul said: “Lakshadweep’s pristine natural beauty and its unique confluence of cultures have drawn people for generations. The custodians of its heritage seek to safeguard the archipelago for posterity. However, their future is threatened by the anti-people policies announced by the administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The administrator has unilaterally proposed sweeping changes without duly consulting elected representatives or the public. The people of Lakshadweep are protesting against these arbitrary actions.” Praful Khoda Patel, a BJP leader from Gujarat supposed to be close to Modi and home minister Amit Shah, was the first politician to become the administrator of Lakshdweep, breaking the tradition of appointing a senior bureaucrat. Lakshdweep, with a population of 65,000 and spread over 30 square kilometre area, has a unique cultural tradition and the people fear the arbitrary changes being imposed will play havoc with their heritage and lifestyle. The administrator has introduced changes to take away the departments of animal husbandry, fisheries, agriculture, health and education from the district and gram panchayat, which is a direct assault on the powers of elected representatives. He has also lifted prohibition from three of the 10 islands, which the locals feel will affect their social life. But the administrator is cracking down violently on the protesters by invoking Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act. In his letter, Rahul said: “The administrator’s attempt to undermine ecological sanctity of the island is evident in the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation issued recently. The provisions undermine safeguards pertaining to land ownership, dilute environmental regulations for certain activities and severely limit legal recourse available to affected persons. Livelihood security and sustainable development are being sacrificed for short-term commercial gains.” He added: “The provision in the draft panchayat regulation that disqualifies members with more than two children is blatantly anti-democratic. Furthermore, proposed changes to regulations like Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, the Lakshadweep Animals Preservation Regulation and lifting of restrictions on sale of alcohol are a deliberate assault on the cultural and religious fabric of the local community. The attempt to cut ties with Beypore port strikes at the close historical and cultural ties with Kerala.” Seeking withdrawal of the new orders, he said: “It is pertinent to mention that despite the pandemic, the administration demolished structures used by the fisher folk, fired contractual workers in various government departments, and relaxed quarantine norms that led to a lethal spike in Covid cases. Under the guise of development and maintaining law and order in a low-crime Union territory, the draconian regulations penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy.” Former home minister P. Chidambaram also tweeted: “Lakshadweep was a haven of peace, harmony and development according to the ethos and wishes of the people. Enter BJP: there are manufactured controversies and chaos. The Administrator, a BJP apparatchik, must be immediately sacked. The practice of appointing a seasoned civil servant must be restored. The Administrator is not a ruler but a servant of the people.” Chidambaram argued that no draft regulation can be published without the prior approval of the Home Ministry. “At what level was prior approval granted to the misconceived draft regulations? The Home Ministry must own responsibility and scrap the draft regulations forthwith,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Hope as government clears Pfizer hurdle||India scrapped local trials for “well-established” foreign coronavirus vaccines on Thursday as it tries to accelerate its vaccination rollout, with a government official saying Pfizer shots could arrive by July. The world’s second-most populous country in May recorded its highest monthly Covid-19 death toll since the pandemic began last year, accounting for just over a third of the overall total. Only about 3 per cent of India’s 1.3 billion people have been fully vaccinated, the lowest rate among the 10 countries with the most cases. India pledged last month to fast-track imports, but its insistence on local trials and a dispute over indemnity stalled discussions with Pfizer. “The provision has now been further amended to waive the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries,” the government said in a statement. Thursday’s move is set to speed up the arrival of Pfizer shots and those developed by Johnson & Johnson and Moderna, with which the government has held multiple discussions but met with little success. “Yes, we are engaged with Pfizer because they have indicated availability of a certain amount of, certain volume of vaccines in coming months, possibly starting in July,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. He told a media briefing that the government was examining the company’s request to grant it legal protections against the use of its vaccine in India. “We are examining the request (for indemnity) and we will take a decision in the larger interest of people and on merit. This is under discussion but there is no decision as of now.” Pfizer “remains committed to continuing our engagement with the government of India towards making the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine available for use in the country”, a company representative said in a statement. Pfizer declined further comment, citing confidential discussions with the government. There was no immediate response from Moderna or Johnson & Johnson to Reuters requests for comment. India has been inoculating its people with Covishield produced by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin made by local firm Bharat Biotech, and has begun rolling out Russia’s Sputnik V. Both Serum and Bharat Biotech were ramping up production to produce 100-110 million doses in the coming months, Paul said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has faced mounting criticism for its failure to secure vaccines for its people as a devastating second wave rips through the vast hinterland. “This is governance failure since India is one of the biggest vaccine producers,” Kaushik Basu, a former chief economic adviser to the government, wrote on Twitter. “Good days will come but this vaccine lapse will be remembered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Flash floods reported in parts of north Odisha ||Flash floods were reported in parts of north Odisha on Thursday as heavy rain under the impact of Cyclone Yaas caused rivers to burst their banks. At least 128 villages still remain marooned. The death toll from the cyclone that pummelled Odisha has risen to three and there has been extensive damage to crops, especially paddy. The flash floods were reported in pockets of Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Balasore and Bhadrak districts. The state administration is estimating the extent of loss caused by Yaas. All district collectors have been asked to submit preliminary reports on the damage. The flash floods have made things worse for people in low-lying areas of the affected districts. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Odisha for an inspection on Friday and announce a relief package after holding a review meeting with state officials, sources said. “The state is facing the twin challenges of rehabilitating the people affected by the cyclone and containing the spread of Covid-19,” a senior official said. Around 128 villages are still inundated. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have been deployed with boats to rescue the marooned people. “As it was a full moon on Wednesday when the cyclone hit the state, there is still a high tide in the sea, as a result of which the water that had gushed into fields and houses is yet to recede. This situation will remain for two to three more days. Most of the rivers in the cyclone-hit areas are in spate,” said the engineer-in-chief of water resources, Jyotirmaya Rath. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told reporters: “The Baitarani river is flowing above the danger mark at Anandpur in Keonjhar district and Akhuapada in Bhadrak district. Water has entered many areas. However, as this is summer and the river bed remains largely dry now, we should be able to overcome the flood-like situation.” All the rivers originating from the Similipal National Park are swollen as heavy rains have pounded Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Balasore and Bhadrak districts. The Kusumi area of Mayurbhanj has received 515mm of rain in the past two days. Most areas buffeted by the cyclone have witnessed between 300mm and 500mm of rain. The Budhabalanga river, too, is in spate but is flowing below the danger mark. In Kendrapara’s Rajangar, Balasore’s Baliapal and many pockets of Bhadrak district, seawater entered the villages by breaching embankments. The state government is distributing food packets to people in inundated areas and those at cyclone shelters. They will continue to receive relief for seven days. The Odisha government’s cyclone preparedness has earned it praise from the Opposition Congress. “The state machinery worked well. It’s for the first time that chief minister Naveen Patnaik has deputed ministers to be with the people during a time of crisis,” Congress MLA Suresh Routray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti former teachers cry for monthly pension||Subhas Chandra Tiwari received a lump sum amount of Rs 16 lakh when he retired last year after serving for 32 long years as a teacher at central government-run Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) schools. Tiwari is among 6,000 NVS employees who joined service before 2004 and were shepherded into a Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) scheme that entails a one-time payment after retirement and offers no monthly pension. Tiwari’s travails offer a glimpse of the problems faced by these people in negotiating life after retirement. His son has not been receiving salary for months as the private firm where he works has suspended operations because of the pandemic. Tiwari has several old-age-related ailments to tackle too, in addition to arranging for his son’s impending marriage. “The money I received under the CPF is all I have. There is no pension. I did not build a house of my own. We live in an old house built by my father. All my savings will be spent on my son’s marriage. There is no healthcare assistance too. It is a pitiable condition for NVS retirees,” Tiwari said over phone from his home at Shikohabad in Uttar Pradesh. Despite being a central government organisation, the NVS does not pay regular monthly pension to those employees who joined before 2004. Such staff at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan schools, the other education chain of the Centre, are entitled to monthly pension and medical facilities under the Central Government Health Service Scheme. Panchanand Mishra retired as a superintendent from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Ranchi, in 2012 and got less than Rs 5 lakh under the CPF. That money is already exhausted and he has to depend on his sons for his medical and other expenses. “Pension provides security. It helps live with dignity. When I ask for money from my sons, they oblige. But I feel very uncomfortable. It hurts your self-respect,” Mishra said. Nearly 60 MPs from across parties recently wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, urging him to implement regular pension under the Central Civil Services Rule, 1972, for NVS employees who joined before 2004. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur also wrote to Pokhriyal this month with the same request. Under regular pension, a retired person receives half his basic pay every month. Thirty-five years since its inception, the NVS runs nearly 600 schools across the country to provide free residential schooling to meritorious but poor students. The schools have nearly 15,000 employees, including about 6,000 who were hired before 2004. That year, the government shifted from regular pension to contributory pension under the National Pension Scheme for all new recruits. “The pass rate of NVS students is the highest in the country. The students do well in all national-level entrance tests. This is because of the sincere efforts of the teachers and other staff. They should not be humiliated in their old age,” said Yogendra Sharma, the president of the Navodaya Vidyalaya Employees Welfare Association. When the National Pension Scheme was introduced, the NVS bureaucracy brought those employees who had joined before 2004 under the Contributory Provident Fund scheme although the normal pension option was available, Sharma said. After the association took up the issue with MPs and ministers and they wrote to Pokhriyal, the education ministry set up a committee under school education secretary Anita Karwal to examine the demand for pension. An official of the ministry said the committee had held a meeting where it supported the provision of regular pension. But its report is awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Intestine perforations in white-fungus patient||The capital’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) has come across a first-of-its-kind case of white fungus causing multiple perforations “throughout the intestine” in a Covid-19 patient, doctors said on Thursday. There have been reports of white fungus causing one or two perforations in the intestine of people suffering from Covid-19. In this case, there were multiple small holes starting from the food pipe down to the large intestine, Dr Anil Arora, chairman of the Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences at the hospital, said. “White fungus (candida) causing multifocal perforations in the food pipe, small bowel and large bowel in Covid-19 infection has not been reported in literature to the best of our knowledge…. The case was also discussed with specialists from the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston three days ago,” he said. A 49-year-old woman was admitted to SGRH on May 13 with complaints of severe abdominal pain, vomiting and constipation. She had undergone a mastectomy for breast cancer in December last year and had received chemotherapy till four weeks ago, Dr Arora said. “A CT scan of the abdomen revealed free air and moderate amount of free fluid in the abdominal cavity suggestive of an intestinal perforation,” the hospital said in a statement. The doctors immediately placed a tube inside the abdomen and drained out about one litre of bile-stained pus. A team of surgeons led by Dr Samiran Nundy of the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplantation conducted an emergency surgery on the patient the next day. The surgery revealed perforation in the lower end of the food pipe. A part of the small intestine had developed gangrene and sloughed off, and the patient had multiple thinned out patches in the wall of the colon with one small leak, Dr Nundy said. “The perforations were closed and the gangrenous segment was resected in a difficult surgery lasting four hours, after which a piece of intestine was sent for biopsy,” he said. The biopsy revealed severe ulceration of the intestinal wall with resultant perforation and necrosis caused by invasive white fungus, Dr Arora said. The woman’s Covid-19 antibody levels were markedly elevated. Her blood and peritoneal fluid culture showed exuberant growth of the fungus. She was immediately administered anti-fungals and showed remarkable improvement, Dr Arora said. However, five days later, she had to undergo a second surgery for a small leak from the anastomotic site. She is currently recovering from it, said Dr Aurobindo of the Department of Liver Transplantation and GI Surgery. Dr Arora said the hospital had been using Caspofungin Anidulafungin from the Echinocandin group of drugs for treatment in this case. Malignancy, recent chemotherapy and a superimposed Covid-19 infection together brought down the immune system of the patient to dismally low levels, Dr Arora said. Normally the intestine remains in perfect harmony with the fungus called candida. In immunosuppressed states such as diabetes, injudicious use of steroids, overzealous administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics and chemotherapy for an underlying malignancy, there is inward migration of this candida from the intestinal lumen into the body tissues by disrupting the normal gut barriers. This is followed by intestinal complications like ulcers, bleeding, gangrene and perforation, followed by transmigration of the candida across the beleaguered gut barrier into blood, culminating in sepsis and multi-organ failure, Dr Arora said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Around 2,290 kids in Maharashtra lost parents to Covid||As many as 2,290 children in Maharashtra have lost either one or both their parents because of the coronavirus infection so far, sources said on Thursday. While 2,183 children lost one parent, 107 others lost both parents during the pandemic, the sources in the state Women and Child Development Department said. “The government has got custody of 10 of the 107 children as there is nobody to look after them,” a source said. The government had set up a 10-member task force in each of the 36 districts in the state to identify children who were orphaned by the pandemic. The task force will also oversee the arrangements of their shelter and supervise their adoption to ensure that there is no trafficking and exploitation. The Kerala government has announced an initial lump sum of Rs 3 lakh for each child orphaned by the pandemic and a payment of Rs 2,000 a month till they reach the age of 18. The state will also bear the cost of their education up to the degree level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||YouTuber arrested for animal cruelty||A 27-year-old YouTuber was arrested for cruelty against animals after he uploaded a video showing his pet dog floating in the air with helium gas balloons tied to its collar, police said on Thursday. The accused, Gaurav Sharma, who has 4.15 million subscribers on his YouTube channel, is a resident of Panchsheel Vihar in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. In the video shot on May 21, Sharma can be seen with his pet dog in a park. The dog is strapped to a bunch of balloons and is set loose to fly. A case was lodged against Sharma under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act on the complaint of Gaurav Gupta, a member of the People for Animals Society, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The officer said the footage had been removed from YouTube. After facing criticism for the video, Sharma had uploaded another one the next day, apologising for his act. He claimed he had taken adequate safety measures while shooting the video featuring his pet dog, Dollar, and assured his viewers that he would not repeat it again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Harsh Vardhan's ‘vulture’ barb fails to deter Rahul Gandhi on death data||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday again accused the Narendra Modi government of manipulating the Covid death toll and focusing its energies on perception management instead of solving the people’s problems. “Positivity is a PR stunt to hide the actual number of Corona deaths the Prime Minister’s actions have caused,” he tweeted, taking a swipe at the BJP’s call for “positivity” at a time the government’s mishandling of the epidemic has triggered public anger. In another tweet he said: “Central Government’s priorities: Social media, false image. People’s priorities: Record-breaking inflation, vaccine for Corona. What kind of achhe din are these?” Rahul’s remarks came a day after health minister Harsh Vardhan savagely targeted him in a tweet, saying: “Politics on dead bodies, Congress style! Vultures may be vanishing from trees but it appears their energy has been transferred into the vultures on the ground. Rahul Gandhi trusts New York more than Delhi. Learn politics over the dead from the vultures on the ground.” Harsh Vardhan had been upset about Rahul posting a New York Times report that suggested the actual number of Covid deaths in India might be far higher than the official figures. While the official Covid death toll in India is around 3 lakh, the NYT report gave a “conservative” estimate of 6 lakh dead, a “more likely scenario” of 16 lakh dead and “a worse scenario” of 42 lakh dead. Other international media outlets too have suggested that the actual Covid death count in India could be much higher than the government figure. While Harsh Vardhan saw Rahul’s decision to quote the NYT as a sign of his greater faith in New York than in Delhi, the BJP has over the past seven years gleefully lapped up any praise of Modi in the foreign media. Many local dailies in several states too have flagged the mismatch between the official death figures and data collected from crematoriums and burial grounds. The high number of death certificates issued in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi too appear to belie the Covid death tolls released by the state governments. The anecdotal evidence — long queues for cremation and bodies buried on river banks or dumped into rivers — also paints a grim picture. Congress leaders dismissed Harsh Vardhan’s remarks, asking whether anyone in the government could say confidently that the death data was not being manipulated. In Madhya Pradesh, the Congress has launched a door-to-door campaign to collect the details of Covid victims. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who too tweeted the NYT report, said: “We will never know the true number of Covid-related deaths as the government has worked harder on suppressing this data than they did fighting the pandemic.” Priyanka has repeatedly accused the Uttar Pradesh administration of suppressing facts. Videos have emerged showing the police cracking down on people intent on telling chief minister Yogi Adityanath the real story of death and destruction. The world saw images of “vultures on the ground” when videos widely shared on social media showed workers removing the coloured shrouds of bodies buried on Uttar Pradesh riverbanks to allegedly erase visual evidence. Priyanka posted the video with this comment: “They didn’t get treatment when alive….  Now Ram-nami (covering cloth) is being snatched from the graves.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Covid tests Bihar’s creaking health sector ||Nearly three decades ago our world was first referred to as a “global village” but we never realised that this connection between the countries could be so strong until last year when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and the virus started engulfing countries one after another, exposing the health systems of even many developed nations. The pandemic has forced us to think about the condition of the healthcare system and preparedness for any such adversity worldwide. The inadequacies in coping with any medical emergency have been exposed and the scarcity of essential infrastructure, medicines and logistics is starkly visible now. India has a huge and dense population, which has led to insufficient testing, delayed reporting, scarcity in supply of drugs, non-availability of medical oxygen and the tardy vaccination drive. Only the over-stressed frontline Covid warriors are courageously fighting the deficiencies at the cost of their own lives. As far as Bihar is concerned, the situation might turn grimmer because the health system of the state is a matter of concern. Of the total population, 89 per cent resides in the rural areas and has less access to health facilities. So, if the infection spreads uncontrollably in the villages, the situation may turn worse. We have to look into history to understand the circumstances better. Bihar has suffered discrimination since the colonial period, which continued even after Independence. Bihar is a land-locked state and does not have any port city of its own. All the economically viable agro-products and mineral resources were drained out systematically. The prevalence of the zamindari system, the policy of freight equalisation after Independence and the bifurcation of Bihar and Jharkhand in 2000 have led to the downfall of the economy of Bihar. Geographically too, Bihar is at a disadvantage. It is the only state whose northern region witnesses floods while the southern region reports draughts at the same time almost every year. Even after the concerted efforts of governments, Bihar’s per capita income of Rs 31,287 remains the lowest among the major states and is 32.9 per cent lower than the national average. As per Census 2011, Bihar has a population of 10.4 crore. According to the Bihar Economic Survey (BES) 2020-21, the state has 12,023 health institutions, 9,842 doctors, 10,594 Grade-A nurses and 19,861 auxiliary nursing midwifery (ANM) workers. When provisioning for clean drinking water and sanitation alone is a challenging task, the lacunae in the health sector are somewhat expected. According to the state health department, Bihar had reported a total of 6.92 lakh Covid-19 cases till May 24. Of these, 6.5 lakh have recovered and 4,642 deaths recorded. The recovery rate is 93.85 per cent. Despite numerous adversities, the state created 546 isolation centres with 56,490 beds, of them 4,552 with oxygen support. Along with ramping up testing, initiatives like the appointment of health staff and the creation of community kitchens have been initiated. Till May 25, 80.42 lakh people had got the first dose of vaccine and 19.43 lakh were fully vaccinated. The pandemic has exposed the under-funding in the social sector. To set things right, the 15th Finance Commission had recommended that the Centre increase public spending on health to 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025 while the states ramp up health funding to more than 8 per cent of their budget by 2022. The commission had recommended grants-in-aid of Rs 1,06,606 crore to the health sector, of which Bihar had been earmarked Rs 10,740 crore. The health sector has already been suffering from issues such as weak infrastructure, human resource scarcity and excess out-of-pocket-expenditure (OoPE). Covid-19 has worsened the scenario. About 70 per cent of Bihar’s revenues come from central transfers. The state has always tried to get its allocation on health increased but health spending has been showing a declining trend in the country. The share of health spending in the GDP is around 0.40 per cent for India and 1.35 per cent for Bihar. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, the OoPE per hospitalised case excluding childbirth in Bihar is Rs 11,182 in rural areas and Rs 23,647 in urban areas. Private hospital charges are Rs 15,220 in rural areas and Rs 32,319 in urban areas, according to National Health Systems Resource Centre figures from 2014. According to the BES, the in-patient occupancy rate in government hospitals of Bihar is only 55 per cent. Although Bihar’s expenditure on health is around 4 to 5 per cent, the public sector has not been able to deliver the services as per the requirement, which leads to high OoPE that is a great burden on people where the poverty line for a person was fixed at Rs 778 per month for rural areas and Rs 923 for urban areas (2011-12). The country is passing through an unprecedented crisis. The state and central governments should work in harmony to deal with the situation. In a state like Bihar where health facilities are mainly concentrated in Patna or in a few other district towns, efforts must be made to strengthen the structure in other districts and blocks. Private hospitals should also be encouraged to take up responsibilities. To control unbridled hospitalisation in the private sector, all healthcare charges must be regulated and rationalised by the government. As per the 7th Schedule, health comes under the State List but the responsibilities of this sector are immense, so it should be shifted to the Concurrent List. Nabarun Ganguli is the director of the ONOH Foundation, Bihar. Barna Ganguli is assistant professor, CEPPF, ADRI. The ONOH Foundation works on health in Bihar and Jharkhand||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
