29-05-2021||India||Centre: Pension, other benefits for families who lost breadwinners to Covid||The government on Saturday announced a string of measures, including a pension for dependents of those having lost their lives due to COVID-19, among other benefits for the families who lost their earning members to the pandemic. Besides family pensions, insurance benefits under the Employees' Deposit-Linked Insurance (EDLI) scheme have been enhanced and liberalised. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said these steps will help mitigate financial difficulties faced by these families. Modi said his government stands in solidarity with these families. To help these families live a life of dignity and maintain a good standard of living, the benefit of the Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) pension scheme for employment-related death cases is being extended to even those who have died due to Covid, the PMO said in a statement. Dependent family members of such persons will be entitled to the benefit of pension equivalent to 90 per cent of the average daily wage drawn by the worker as per the existing norms. This benefit will be available retrospectively with effect from March 24 last year and for all such cases till March 24, 2022. The enhancement of insurance benefits under the EDLI scheme will in particular help the families of employees who have lost their lives due to the pandemic, the PMO said. The amount of maximum insurance benefit has been increased from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh, and the provision of minimum insurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh has been restored and will apply retrospectively from February 15, 2020 for the next three years. To benefit families of contractual and casual workers, the condition of continuous employment in only one establishment has been liberalised, with the benefit being made available to families of even those employees who may have changed jobs in the last 12 months preceding his death, it said. Detailed guidelines of these schemes are being issued by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the PMO added. In a tweet, Modi said, "Family Pension under ESIC and EPFO- Employees' Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme will provide a financial cushion to those families who have lost their earning member due to COVID-19. The Government of India stands in solidarity with these families."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
29-05-2021||India||Doctors call for nationwide protest over Ramdev’s remarks on allopathy||Upset over Yoga guru Ramdev's remarks on allopathy, members of the federation of resident doctors' associations on Saturday said they will hold a nationwide protest on June 1 and observe it as a 'black day'. In a statement, the federation has also sought an "unconditional open public apology" from Ramdev. A controversy had erupted after he was heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". The remarks were met with vociferous protests, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement. A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the Indian Medical Association (IMA )in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments. On Wednesday, however, Ramdev said no one had the guts to arrest him, his declaration coming on a day the Indian Medical Association appealed to the Prime Minister to book the “owner of Patanjali products” on sedition charges for “spreading fear” against Covid vaccination. “Arrest to kisi ka baap bhi nahin kar sakta Swami Ramdev ko, lekin shor macha rahe hain (Not even someone’s father can arrest Swami Ramdev, but they are making a noise),” he told reporters in Haridwar, when asked about the #ArrestRamdev campaign on Twitter. “They are demanding my arrest. Sometimes they call me a thug or maha-thug. It doesn’t matter to me. I have become used to such things,” Ramdev said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
29-05-2021||India||Centre announces benefits for children orphaned by Covid||On the eve of his government's anniversary in its second term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a number of welfare measures for children who lost their parents to Covid-19, including ensuring a corpus of Rs 10 lakh when they turn 18 and providing for their education. Chairing a meeting to deliberate on steps that can be taken to support such children, he said they will be supported under the "PM-CARES for Children" scheme. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement that fixed deposits will be opened in the names of such children, and the PM-CARES fund will contribute through a specially designed scheme to create a corpus of Rs 10 lakh for each of them when he or she reaches 18 years of age. This corpus will be used to give a monthly financial support or stipend from 18 years of age for the next five years to take care of his or her personal requirements during the period of higher education. On reaching the age of 23 years, they will get the corpus amount as one lump-sum for personal and professional use. While announcing these measures, Modi emphasised that children represent the country's future and the government will do everything possible to support and protect them so that they develop as strong citizens and have a bright future. "The PM said that in such trying times it is our duty, as a society, to care for our children and instil hope for a bright future. All children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to Covid-19 will be supported under PM-CARES for Children' scheme," he said, according to the statement. Highlighting measures for their education, the PMO said children under 10 years will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. Those between 11-18 years of age will be given admission in any central government residential school such as Sainik School and Navodaya Vidyalaya. In case the child remains under the care of a guardian or extended family, then he or she will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. “If the child is admitted in a private school, fees as prescribed under the Right to Education Act norms will be given from the PM-CARES fund, and it will also pay for expenditure on uniforms,textbooks and notebooks,'' the PMO added. For higher education, children will be assisted in obtaining education loans for professional courses or higher education in India according to existing norms. The interest on this loan will be paid from the PM-CARES fund. As an alternative, scholarships equivalent to the tuition fees or course fees for undergraduate and vocational courses will be provided to them under the central or state government schemes. For children who are not eligible under the existing scholarship schemes, PM CARES will provide an equivalent scholarship. All children will also be enrolled as a beneficiary under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, or Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), with a health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh. The premium amount for these children till the age of 18 years will be paid by PM-CARES, it said. Modi said the measures being announced have only been possible due to the generous contributions to the PM-CARES fund which will support India's fight against Covid-19. As many as 577 children across the country were orphaned after their parents succumbed to Covid-19, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani had said earlier this week citing reports of states and union territories from April 1 till May 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||'Malicious' recalling of Bengal chief secretary death knell for federalism, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday decried the recall of the West Bengal Chief Secretary by the Centre, alleging it was an "unpardonable" attack on the Constitution and federalism that will create anarchy in the country. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the "abrupt, malicious and unilateral" recall of the West Bengal's chief secretary by the Modi Government has shocked the conscience of the entire nation. This is a double whammy when viewed in light of the fact that the chief secretary was granted an extension for three months by the Modi Government itself as recently as four days ago, he said, and called it a death knell for federalism. "This is a lethal blow to the Constitution of India, as also Federalism. If the Union Government is permitted to recall the All India Service Officers i.e. IAS and IPS from the states for partisan political considerations and at its whims and fancies, the entire architecture of the rule of law and the Constitution will crumble," Surjewala said in a statement. He said if the head of bureaucracy in a state is summarily removed by the Union Government, why would any IAS or IPS officer, whether a district magistrate or a secretary or a police officer, listen to and follow the orders of state government or implement any policy or programme devised by the state government. "This would lead to complete and total anarchy in the country," he alleged. "Will the prime minister, the DPOT and the BJP Government disclose the reason for the U-turn in recalling the chief secretary within four days of granting him a three months extension," he demanded. The Congress leader also said the ongoing saga in the Calcutta High Court is grossly disturbing and bodes ill for an independent judiciary. Surjewala said equally shocking for every individual having faith in the Constitution is the recent letter written by Justice Arindam Sinha, a sitting Judge of the Calcutta High Court. "Pursuant to the ongoing open differences in the Calcutta High Court in hearing and listing of cases against TMC ministers, the obviously coloured and revengeful recall of the chief secretary by Modi Government has given an unmistakable impression that Union Government is trying to dislodge a just elected government," he alleged in a statement. "The Congress calls upon every jurist, constitutional expert, elected representative and every countryman to rise in unison to condemn this unpardonable attack on India's constitutional ethos and the federal structure," Surjewala said in his statement. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh too took a swipe at the prime minister and the Union home minister, saying "this move in the middle of a pandemic and the aftermath of a devastating cyclone, shows how they are still licking their Bengal wounds post-elections". Barely four days after he was granted an extension, the Centre on Friday night sought services of West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and asked the state government to relieve the officer immediately, a move termed by the ruling Trinamool Congress as "forced deputation". Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of the West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on May 31 after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Centre halts allocation of Remdesivir to states as supply surpasses demand||The Centre has stopped allocation of antiviral drug Remdesivir to states as the supply of the critical medication has surpassed the demand, Union Minister Mansukh L Mandaviya said on Saturday. "Now the country has enough #Remdesivir as the supply is much more than the demand. So we have decided to DISCONTINUE the Central Allocation of Remdesivir to States," Mandaviya said in a tweet. The Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers noted that the supply of the drug, which is being used to treat COVID-19, has been ramped up over ten times from just 33,000 vials a day on April 11, 2021 to 3,50,000 vials per day currently. The government has also increased the number of plants producing Remdesivir from just 20 to 60 plants within a month, he added. Besides, the Centre has decided to procure 50 lakh vials of Remdesivir to maintain it as a strategic stock for emergency requirement, Mandaviya said. "But I have also directed @nppa_india & @CDSCO_INDIA_INF to continuously monitor the availability of Remdesivir in the country," he noted. In order to improve supply, the government has already waived customs duty on Remdesivir, its raw materials and other components used in making the antiviral drug in order to help augment domestic availability and reduce the cost of the injection. On April 11, in view of increased demand for Remdesivir, the Centre banned the export of the injection and its active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) till the situation improves. Various drug companies have also cut the prices of Remdesivir injection following intervention of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Delhi to get 5.5 lakh Covid jabs for 18-44 age group in June, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city government will receive 5.5 lakh COVID-19 jabs for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group from the Centre in June. Addressing a press conference here, Sisodia accused the central government of "sitting over" the vaccine distribution system. The deputy chief minister also alleged "mismanagement" by the central government and sought to know how private hospitals were getting vaccines while states were being told that there are no stocks. As against a requirement of 1.84 crore doses to vaccinate 92 lakh people in the 18-44 age group in Delhi, Centre provided 4.5 lakh doses in April and 3.67 lakh doses in May, he said. "Now the Centre has informed us that a limited stock of 5.5 lakh doses will be provided, that too after June 10," Sisodia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Will allow more activities to open up if cases decline, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital recorded around 900 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours and stressed that if new infections continue to decline, more activities will be allowed to open up in the city. The process of lifting the lockdown gradually in the capital will begin from Monday, starting with the resumption of construction activities and reopening of factories for a week, Kejriwal had announced on Friday. The phase-wise unlocking process in Delhi will begin after over six weeks of lockdown enforced in view of the second wave of Covid-19. "Delhi recorded around 900 cases in the last 24 hours. Cases have come down below 1000 and the infections decline, we will begin unlocking more activities. We want the economic activities to come on track," Kejriwal said on the sidelines of an event. Kejriwal visited the Delhi government's drive-through Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Chhatrasal Stadium. "People can come to this centre in a car or on a motorcycle. They are also coming on foot. As soon as we receive vaccines for the 18-44 age group, we will also start this for them," he said. The Delhi government has floated a global expression of interest (EOI) for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine on an urgent basis. "We have done global tender and are hoping that some company comes. Different governments have done global tendering but the results have not been inspiring. If some company approaches us, it will be good. But what I understand is that world over companies want to talk to the Centre for procurement of vaccines," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload drops below 1.80 lakh after 45 days||The single day rise in coronavirus cases was recorded at 1,73,790, the lowest in last 45 days, taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,77,29,247, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The daily positivity further declined to 8.36 per cent, remaining below 10 per cent for five consecutive days, while the weekly positivity rate dropped to 9.84 per cent, it said. The death toll climbed to 3,22,512 with 3,617 daily deaths, the data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. Also, 20,80,048 tests were conducted on Friday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 34,11,19,909. The active cases have further reduced to 22,28,724 with a decline of 1,14,428 cases being recorded in the active caseload. It now comprises 8.04 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.80 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,51,78,011 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.16 per cent, the data stated. The daily recoveries outnumbered the daily new cases for the 16th consecutive day. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 20.89 crore on Saturday under the nationwide vaccination drive, the ministry said. India is the second country after the US to achieve the vaccination landmark of 20 crore, it added. A total of 20,89,02,445 vaccine doses have been administered through 29,72,971 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,617 new fatalities include 973 from Maharashtra, 486 from Tamil Nadu, 401 from Karnataka, 194 from Kerala, 176 from Punjab, 154 from Uttar Pradesh, 145 from West Bengal, 139 from Delhi and 103 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,22,512 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 93,198 from Maharashtra, 27,806 from Karnataka, 23,951 from Delhi, 22,775 from Tamil Nadu, 20,053 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,120 from West Bengal, 14,180 from Punjab and 12,915 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Covid: Niti Aayog terms criticism against Modi  govt on  vaccination programme as 'myths'||The Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, has described as “myths” most of the criticism levelled against the Narendra Modi government on the vaccination programme in the country. In a note released on Thursday, Vinod Paul, member (health) at the Niti Aayog, challenged the “myths” with explanations. But several experts underlined the note’s silence on the Centre’s inactions during the second half of 2020 that they said lay at the root of the troubles. In response to a question, K. Sujatha Rao, a former health secretary, said the Niti Aayog note appeared an attempt to “rationalise a bad decision and a serious error that has weakened and badly dented the prestige and reputation of the central government”. R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said some of the note’s content “reads quite like a joke”. The following are excerpts from Paul’s note and the views some former government administrators, economists and public health experts shared with The Telegraph: Alleged myth: The Centre has abdicated its responsibility by asking the states to procure vaccines. Niti Aayog: The Centre is doing the heavy lifting, from funding the vaccine makers to giving them quick approvals to ramp up production and bring foreign vaccines to India. The vaccines procured by the Centre are supplied to the states for free administration. The Centre has enabled the states to procure vaccines by themselves on their explicit requests. The states knew about the production capacity in the country and the difficulties of procuring vaccines from abroad. The Centre ran a well-administered vaccination programme from January to April compared with the situation in May. But health is a state subject and the liberalised policy was a response to incessant requests from the states. That the states have been unable to procure foreign vaccines reaffirms what the Centre has been telling the states from day one: that vaccines are in short supply across the world. Experts’ views: This explanation implies that the Centre allowed the states to expand the vaccination campaign to include all adults knowing there would not be enough vaccines to meet the demand, thus creating a mess. The Centre’s initial policy to prioritise healthcare workers, frontline workers and adults 45 years or older was the correct strategy given the need to protect the most vulnerable against the backdrops of India’s population and finite vaccine supplies. Throughout 2020, the Centre had actually asked the states not to try and procure vaccines on their own. Some administrators and experts believe the Centre should have stood firm on its original policy. “Just because some states asked for flexibilities.... It is the national interest that the Centre is expected to protect,” said Sujatha Rao. “And it was neither financially nor practically possible to have the states compete with each other for vaccines.” When the Centre had in October 2020 outlined its strategy of initially vaccinating only priority populations, the states that wished to vaccinate all adults could have questioned the policy and sought a revision, said Keshav Desiraju, a former health secretary. “The states could have challenged the Centre’s strategy…. They may not have done so in the hope that the Centre would pay for the vaccines as the Centre should have done,” he said. “In the event, the Centre is not paying and the states have lost time.” Ramakumar and others believe the decision to allow the states to vaccinate all adults had the “political objective” of shifting the blame for vaccine shortages to the states. Amid finite vaccine supplies, the Centre should have resisted the demands from the states through consultations and persuasion, they say. “It is almost childish to say, ‘We told you there would be no supplies, yet you insisted, so we introduced the flexibility to vaccinate all adults’,” said Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi. Alleged myth: The Centre is not doing enough to buy vaccines from abroad. Niti Aayog: The Centre has continuously engaged with vaccine makers from mid-2020, including Pfizer, Moderna and J&J. The government offered all assistance…. But vaccines are in short supply and companies have their own priorities, game plans and compulsions. They also give preference to the countries of their origin just as our own vaccine makers have done for us. As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the Centre began working with the company. Sputnik is already in India. The Centre has requested all global vaccine makers to come and make in India. Experts’ views: These actions have come too late. While many countries paid the vaccine makers for at-risk production and scale-up and signed advance purchase pacts with them between July and November 2020, India did not. The Centre did not provide any funding to either domestic vaccine makers or foreign companies to secure doses. While vaccine makers may prioritise sales to their own countries, this does not preclude simultaneous sales to others. The Pfizer vaccine has orders from Brazil, China, Japan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Ukraine and other countries. The Moderna vaccine has orders from Australia, the European Union, Philippines and others. None of these is either vaccine’s “country of origin”. Had India adequately assessed its dose requirements and signed advance procurement pacts in 2020, the experts believe, foreign vaccines would have been available in the country now. Alleged myth: The Centre is not doing enough to ramp up domestic production of vaccines. Niti Aayog: The Centre has been an “effective facilitator” to enable more companies to produce vaccines from early 2020. It has ensured that three other (public-sector) companies will produce Covaxin while Bharat Biotech will enhance its own production from 10 million doses per month now to 100 million doses by October this year. Additionally, the three public-sector units will produce an additional 40 million doses per month by December. The Serum Institute is ramping up Covishield production from 65 million doses to 110 million doses per month. India hopes to produce 2 billion doses by the end of 2021. Experts’ views: The Centre should have funded Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute to scale up production by October 2020 when the results of the Phase 2 clinical trials of both vaccines had emerged. Similarly, it should have funded the public-sector companies earlier. It takes three to four months for companies to scale up production. Alleged myth: The Centre has not approved vaccines available globally. Niti Aayog: The Centre eased the entry of foreign vaccines in April. The vaccines need not undergo prior bridging clinical trials. No application of any foreign manufacturer for approval is pending with the drugs controller. Experts’ views: Again, delayed actions. Pfizer was the first to seek approval for a Covid-19 vaccine in India but the vaccine was not approved and the company withdrew its application in February. The company had even offered to help the country with logistics for ultra-low-temperature transport. The decision to open up India’s market to approved foreign vaccines came only on April 13. But Pfizer was already moving doses to countries that had invested earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Covid: Rahul Gandhi blames PM's inaction and lack of understanding for the second wave||Rahul Gandhi on Friday dared Narendra Modi to show leadership amid the national Covid emergency and blamed the Prime Minister’s inaction and lack of understanding of the pandemic for the large number of deaths in the second wave. “Do your duty. Become a leader. Say, ‘I will handle the situation’. Dum dikhao (Show your strength),” Rahul said at a news conference. He said the Centre should not  blame the Opposition and the states for the crisis and warned of  more waves if the vaccination drive is not intensified. “We can see the government didn’t understand the first wave. But the second wave is the Prime Minister’s failure. Prime Minister ne jo nautanki ki, apni zimmedari poori nahin ki, is kaaran second wave hai (The second wave happened because the Prime Minister resorted to drama instead of discharging his responsibilities),” Rahul said. “The tragedy is that there is a fundamental misunderstanding about the nature of the problem even now.” Rahul explained his “nautanki (drama)” barb by recalling how Modi had wasted time exhorting people to clap and bang on plates to ward off Covid, taken the mindless decisions to allow the Kumbh and address huge rallies in Bengal, and failed to make enough advance booking for vaccines while exporting doses. “Change your style of functioning, Mr Prime Minister. Lakhs of people have died because of your deeds. By not vaccinating people, you are helping the virus. More people will be killed,” Rahul said. He described the government’s decision to flaunt its “vaccine diplomacy” as “insanity”. “We were warning him (to evolve) a sound vaccine strategy since last year. We warned him of a devastating second wave in February. But the Prime Minister was living in a different world,” he said. “Nobody tells him the truth, he doesn’t get any feedback. He was celebrating victory over Covid. The US placed orders for vaccines in June last year. Why didn’t he order? Even now, he is trying to figure out how to repair his image. It is gone. It is dead. Now work to save the people.” Asked why he had described Covid as “Movid” in one of his tweets, Rahul said: “Had the Prime Minister acted differently and saved people’s lives, it would have been Covid. But Modi created space for Covid by his actions. That’s the message I wanted to give out and used the first letter of his name to say ‘Movid’.” Rahul said he had discussed the pandemic with several experts. “(It) is not a simple disease; it (the virus) changes, mutates. You give it time and space and it will become more dangerous. You have to close the doors; don’t give it time and space,” he said. “Lockdowns, masks and distancing are not the solutions. The only permanent solution is vaccination. Only 3 per cent of the population has been vaccinated so far.... The US has vaccinated 50 per cent of its population.” Rahul added: “If vaccination continues at this rate, we will be able to complete the exercise (only) by May 2024. The third wave is guaranteed and will be deadlier. There will be a fourth and fifth wave as well. With such a long time (given to it), the virus will mutate and vaccines won’t be of help. “We are having casualties but are yet to get into war mode. There should be a group briefing the Prime Minister daily and finalising strategy. The Prime Minister doesn’t think strategically. He is an event manager. We don’t need events; we need a strategy.” Rahul called the government’s data on Covid deaths “a 100 per cent lie”. The Congress leader had recently flagged a New York Times report that suggested India’s actual counts of Covid infections and deaths might be several times higher than the official figures. “When I speak, everybody says, ‘Rahul Gandhi is frightening people’. No, I am not frightening people, I am trying to save people,” Rahul said. “When I spoke in February, I was trying to save my country’s people. I was worried for them. I didn’t want to see what I have had to see over the last 2-3 months.” He added: “As journalists, it is your duty to put pressure on the government. (Tell the government) don’t lie about the number of people who have died.... You (the government) are lying to the people of India, and when you lie, you give this virus space.... Stop giving the virus space.” Rahul dismissed blame games and conspiracy theories as part of the RSS philosophy. “The Opposition is the warning system. Our job is to bring information to the government. They say there is a conspiracy to defame India. There is a conspiracy of ignorance deeply embedded in this government,” he said. “It’s not a political matter; it’s about people’s lives. Pressuring journalists, Facebook, Twitter won’t help. You have to act on the feedback. How many Opposition leaders have you (Modi) talked to?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Five held for rape in Bangalore||Five alleged Bangladeshi nationals, including a woman, were arrested in Bangalore on Thursday for allegedly raping and brutalising a woman in a suspected case of international cross-border human trafficking. Police on Friday confirmed that they had had to fire at below the knees after two of the accused tried to flee while being taken to the crime scene in east Bangalore. Both men have been hospitalised with injuries on their legs. They are all labourers working illegally in the country, deputy commissioner of police S.D. Sharanappa said. The city police were tipped off about the incident after a video of the crime started circulating in Assam. Assam police had on Thursday tweeted screenshots of four men and a woman accomplice involved in the crime. Bangalore police commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted that all the suspects and victims are from Bangladesh. “The victim was brought to India for trafficking and was tortured and brutalised due to financial matter,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Non-Muslims from 13 districts of India to apply for citizenship||The Centre on Friday invited non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who are residing in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for Indian citizenship. The Union home ministry issued a notification for immediate implementation of the order under the Citizenship Act, 1955, and the rules framed under the law in 2009. The rules under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) enacted in 2019 are yet to be framed. The enactment of the CAA had triggered widespread protests across the country because it tied citizenship to religion. The CAA proposed to fast-track Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities who came to India before December 31, 2014. Critics argued that the law appeared to be aimed at excluding Muslims. “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, 1955…, the central government hereby directs that powers exercisable by it for registration as citizen of India under Section 5, or for grant of certificate of naturalisation under Section 6 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, in respect of any person belonging to minority community in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, residing in the districts mentioned and the states mentioned below....,” the home ministry notification said. Neither the 1955 law nor the 2009 rules have a provision for religion-based citizenship. People who are eligible to apply for Indian citizenship under Friday’s notification are those currently living in the districts of Morbi, Rajkot, Patan and Vadodara of Gujarat, Durg and Balodabazar in Chhattisgarh, Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer and Sirohi in Rajasthan, Faridabad in Haryana and Jalandhar in Punjab. “The application for registration as citizen of India or grant of certificate of naturalisation as citizen of India under the said rules (Citizenship Rules, 2009) shall be made by the applicant online,” the notification said. The home ministry said the verification of the applications would be done simultaneously by the collector or secretary (home) at the district and the state level, respectively, and the application and the reports made accessible simultaneously to the Centre on an online portal. The collector or the secretary, as the case may be, will make any inquiry necessary for ascertaining the suitability of the applicant and will forward the application online to such agencies for verification and comments as may be required for completing the probe. The instructions issued by the Centre from time to time shall be strictly complied with by the state or the Union Territory and the district concerned, the notification said. The comments of the agencies will have to be uploaded online and made accessible to the collector or the secretary, as the case may be, and the central government. The collector or the secretary, on being satisfied with the suitability of the applicant, will grant the person the citizenship of India by registration or naturalisation and issue a certificate of registration or naturalisation, printed from the online portal and signed by the collector or the secretary in the form prescribed in the 2009 rules, the notification said. The collector or the secretary shall maintain an online as well as physical register containing the details of the person registered or naturalised as a citizen of India and furnish a copy to the central government within seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks data on pandemic orphans from Centre and the states ||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Centre and the states to furnish data relating to the number of children orphaned by the pandemic and the steps being taken for their rehabilitation. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said the government had a duty and obligation under even the Juvenile Justice Act (Care and Protection of Children), 2015, to ensure that “children in need” are given protection and rehabilitation. The court, which had earlier passed suo motu directions to prevent kids in child-protection homes from getting infected by the coronavirus, on Friday asked the authorities to compile and furnish data on the number of orphaned children by Sunday evening to amicus curiae (friend of court) Gaurav Agrawal. The amicus has been asked to compile a detailed note on the steps taken by the states and Union Territories to rehabilitate these children and submit it before the court. The bench passed the directions after the amicus submitted a note to say that several hundred children had been orphaned in the country after their parents died of Covid. The amicus told the court that the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPR) had last month taken cognisance of reports that many children were being adopted illegally. The NCPR had directed the states and Union Territories to put up on their respective websites the steps taken to rehabilitate orphaned children. Additional solicitor-general Aishwaraya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, informed the court that the Union government had already issued advisories to the states and Union Territories on the rehabilitation of not only orphaned children, but also those who had been abandoned by their parents. The court, while taking on record the submissions, said it would also be the duty of the district administrations in all states to take charge of children orphaned by the pandemic and immediately ensure their basic needs such as food, clothing and shelter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||SC passes directions to curb rising instances of dowry deaths||The Supreme Court on Friday passed directions to courts, prosecution and police to curb rising instances of dowry deaths, quoting a United Nations report to say that dowry deaths account for 40 to 50 per cent of female homicides recorded annually in India. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Aniruddha Bose said IPC Section 304-B, which imposes a minimum sentence of seven years in jail and a maximum of life imprisonment for dowry killings, was one among the many legislative initiatives undertaken by Parliament to remedy a long-standing social evil, but care must also be taken to ensure that innocent people are not harassed. “There is no denying that such a social evil is persisting even today. A study titled ‘Global Study on Homicide: Gender-related Killing of Women and Girls”, published by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, highlighted that in 2018 female dowry deaths accounted for 40 to 50 per cent of all female homicides recorded annually in India,” the court said. _“The dismal truth is that from the period 1999 to 2016, these figures have remained constant. In fact, the latest data furnished by the National Crime Records Bureau indicate that in 2019 itself, 7,115 cases were registered under Section 304-B, IPC, alone. Considering the significance of such a legislation, a strict interpretation would defeat the very object for which it was enacted,” Justice Ramana, who authored the judgment, said. The court passed the following directions for the prosecution, police and the courts while upholding the conviction of Satvir Singh of Haryana and anther family member in a dowry death case: ⚫ IPC Section 304-B must be interpreted keeping in mind the legislative intent to curb the social evils of bride burning and dowry demand. ⚫ The prosecution must at first establish the existence of the necessary ingredients for constituting an offence under Section 304-B. Once these ingredients are satisfied, the prosecution must prove the guilt of the accused. Under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, the burden of proof in dowry cases lies on the accused and there is a provision for them to rebut the charges. ⚫ The phrase “soon before” an alleged dowry death in IPC Section 304-B cannot be construed to mean that the torture had taken place “immediately before”. The prosecution must establish the existence of “proximate and a live link” between the dowry death and the cruelty or harassment by the husband and/or his relatives. ⚫Trial courts that examine an accused cannot adopt a casual approach in dowry death cases. “It is a matter of grave concern that often trial courts record the statement under Section 313, CrPC, in a very casual and cursory manner, without specifically questioning the accused as to his defence. It ought to be noted that the examination of an accused under Section 313, CrPC, cannot be treated as a mere procedural formality, as it is based on the fundamental,” Justice Ramana said. He added: “This aforesaid provision incorporates the valuable principle of natural justice ‘audi alteram partem’ (hear the other side) as it enables the accused to offer an explanation for the incriminatory material appearing against him. Therefore, it imposes an obligation on the court to question the accused fairly, with care and caution.” CJI Ramana further said that CrPC Section 232 provides that “if, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the judge considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the offence, the judge shall record an order of acquittal”. Once the trial court decides that the accused is not eligible to be acquitted as per the provisions of CrPC Section 232, it must move on and fix hearings specifically for “defence evidence”, calling upon the accused to present his case, which is also an invaluable right provided to him. However, the Supreme Court cautioned that the trial courts need to ensure speedy trial and also prevent abuse of the dowry law provisions to harass innocent family members. “Undoubtedly… the menace of dowry death is increasing day by day. However, it is also observed that sometimes family members of the husband are roped in, even though they have no active role in commission of the offence and are residing at distant places. In these cases, the court need to be cautious in its approach,” Justice Ramana said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal insulted Indian flag, complains Prahlad Patel||India is in the throes of a humongous tragedy and there is unprecedented anger at the Centre for failing its people. At such a moment, trust a minister in the Modi government to split hairs on, not the pandemic, but the colour composition of the national flag that forms the backdrop of a chief minister’s media interactions. Prahlad Patel, the Union minister of state for culture (independent charge), has written to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal complaining about the insult to the Tricolour inflicted by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during his daily webcasts. Patel feels the Tricolour, two of which are placed in the formation of a cross sign behind Kejriwal, has a higher proportion of green than permitted. What may have caught Patel’s gimlet eye appeared invisible to lesser mortals, many of whom saw in the minister’s objection another attempt by the government to divert attention from the horrors of the pandemic that a thoroughly unprepared Centre has struggled to tackle. Some spied a sinister angle too, given the colour green’s association with Islam and the BJP’s track record of communalising issues for political gains. In a letter to Baijal on Friday, Patel wrote: “The manner in which the flag has been installed appears to be used for decoration. The middle white portion appears to be reduced and seems like it has been added to the green part, which is not in accordance with the rules given in 1.3 of Part 1 of the Flag Code of India notified by the Union home ministry.” Patel, who has expressed righteous indignation at the purported insult to the flag, appeared oblivious to the pertinent points raised by Kejriwal at the webcasts. Over the past week, Delhi has not been able to offer vaccines to the younger population because of shortages and the chief minister has been making desperate appeals to the Centre to import vaccines. Neither Kejriwal nor Baijal has officially reacted to Patel’s outburst. Political scientist Ajay Gudavarthy of JNU told The Telegraph: “This appears to be another diversion from the pandemic for which people are deeply disturbed, especially in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh which go to the polls next year…. These gimmicks may have worked in the past, but to think they will work now when the establishment is pushed to the wall is foolish.” Sociologist Deepak Mehta of Ashoka University told this newspaper: “It is a tried and tested ploy to demarcate green, Islam, Muslims and jihad as the enemies. It has worked in the past and they are looking for a space for it to catch fire again…. The letter itself is lame but cumulatively with all the other things being said like attacking people for beef or love jihad, it will build them up for the UP polls….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Covid: Kids’ midday meal cash eaten up in bank||Every time Khulana Pradhan, 37, goes to her village bank to withdraw the money transferred to her account as nutritional allowance for her 10-year-old son Ayush under the school midday meal scheme, she returns empty-handed. The resident of Balihaat village in Odisha’s Puri district risks her health standing in the queue amid a pandemic only to get the stock reply: “There is no money in your account.” “The schoolteacher tells me the money has been transferred to my account. When I ask the bank, there’s no money. The bank says that whatever money arrived had been auto-debited towards my arrears under the Atal Pension Yojana (APY),” Khulana said. The around 10 crore children enrolled in Class I to VIII at government and government-aided schools are entitled to a cooked midday meal at school every day except holidays. With the schools closed because of Covid, the Centre had in March last year advised the states to use the central funds under the scheme to distribute cooked meals among the children’s families or directly transfer the money to them. Odisha has been providing the families with rice and wheat while transferring to their bank account money towards oil and other ingredients at about Rs 5 per school day, which comes to not much over Rs 100 in an average month. The money is sent through the schools every three months. Khulana said she had to pay Rs 240 a month for the APY, a contributory pension scheme run by the central government. Two years ago, the local self-help group (SHG) had encouraged her to become a subscriber. Banks ask the SHGs to enrol their members for the APY and the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Manndhan, another contributory pension scheme, Khulana said. “I never realised it would be so difficult to pay the instalments. For the last one year, there has been no work for my husband, a labourer. I have been unable to pay the dues,” the homemaker said. Prafulla Kumar Pradhan, a teacher at the Balihaat primary school, said the school had 40 students last year and that the nutrition allowance was being transferred to the bank accounts of all their parents. “But because of auto debit towards arrears, six parents could not draw their money,” Pradhan said. Sameet Panda, co-convener of the civil society group Right To Food Campaign’s Odisha chapter, said “hundreds of parents” had complained that their children’s nutrition allowance was getting eaten up by pending bank payments or fines for low balance. He said the trend was being seen in other states too since parents who send their children to government schools are poor and tend to default on bank payments or fail to maintain the minimum balance in their accounts. “Besides, the parents who are getting the money are unlikely to spend it all on their children’s nutrition. The money is spent as part of the family food basket, so the overall nutrition level of the children is dropping,” Panda said. He said this would worsen malnutrition among the children. According to the results of Phase 1 of the National Family Health Survey-5, several states have witnessed an increase in the proportion of underweight children and in childhood stunting between 2015-16 and 2019-20. The proportion of underweight children increased in seven of the 10 states for which data has been released, while stunting increased in six states.Under the midday meal scheme, schools usually provide cooked rice or chapattis with dal and vegetables. Some states occasionally provide eggs (Odisha), fish (Bengal) or milk (Madhya Pradesh) in addition. On Friday, the Union education ministry advised the states to send the midday meal assistance to the eligible children entirely in the form of direct benefit transfer. If Odisha chooses to follow this, the dry rations would stop and the entire aid will come in the form of money transfer — to be eaten up by the APY payments in Khulana’s case. It could not be immediately ascertained whether Odisha intended to switch entirely to direct benefit transfer. Economist Jean Dreze, a visiting professor with Ranchi University, said he had come across instances of money deposited as a social benefit —such as pensions and NREGA wages — getting auto-debited without the customer being informed. “In the case of Odisha, it may be better to give the schoolchildren weekly or monthly take-home rations, including eggs. This will also help ensure that the children keep a connection with their school,” he said. Dreze disapproved of the Centre’s advisory to provide the midday meal assistance entirely in the form of money transfer. “I don’t think the central government should impose a uniform policy on this. It should provide the midday meal funds to the states and let them decide how to use them according to their circumstances and capabilities for the duration of the Covid crisis,” he said. An academic who did not want to be quoted said the Centre should ask the banks not to divert the nutrition allowance for children towards the payment of dues. An email sent to the Union education ministry seeking its views on the problem of auto debits gobbling up the nutritional allowance for many children had brought no answer till Friday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Scientist with an ear for music||Dr Srikumar Banerjee, former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, passed away on Sunday at his Mumbai residence after suffering a heart attack. Banerjee, 75, had recovered from Covid last month. The veteran nuclear scientist had retired as the secretary of the Department of Atomic Energy in 2012. Prior to the Atomic Energy Commission, Banerjee had served as the director of the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (Barc). My dear friend, a world-class scientist, an able and competent administrator, Dr Srikumar Banerjee is no more. He conquered Covid but died of a heart attack. He was one of the most charming persons I have known in this almost soul-destroying and daunting administrative jungle that runs the great empire of atomic energy spread across the country. Srikumar rose above all the hurdles and knew exactly his way about to get things done and he did it. As chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, he excelled, modest but assertive. By profession, he was an excellent metallurgist, but had a very good grasp on practical applications, such as nuclear power stations. Once he showed me an element from the core of the nuclear power station and how continuous bombardment of radiation and neutrons had changed the configuration of the “core element” — I noticed a surrealistic beauty and as a metallurgist he saw a different beauty, complementary though. Soon, we got close and I discovered his varied interests — poetry, history and even heavyweight Indian classical music. The last item is rather rare among diehard engineers trained at IITs. Srikumar had been educated at IIT Kharagpur. When he spoke among academics about material science, he spoke as a learned proposer of material science, but when he discussed with his fellow engineers he was a seasoned and experienced engineer. He took over as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission at a very difficult time, just after India had signed Nuclear Deal 123 with the US in 2008. The deal nationalists got at him, saying he had sold India to the Americans — the usual slogan of devoted nationalists. But he stood by his conviction, strong and unbending — that was quite a task. Only recently, we discussed at great length about mathematical physicist and Nobel laureate Roger Penrose’s visit to the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and how he is going to be honoured and received. As a member of the TIFR council, Srikumar was very helpful. He was a rare person, modest, yet hugely successful, charming and affable. I, and a whole host of people, near ones and dear friends, will miss him greatly. Before I end, I would like to recall for my readers one very touching incidence on December 27, 2012, when my book Sristhi O Kristhi was released. My good friend Saumitra Chatterjee did the honours (Alas, he is gone too). Srikumar was there with his wife in the audience surprisingly, and he spoke eloquently, almost brilliantly. I was moved. He took the trouble to come to his friend’s book release. After death, people of eminence are remembered either with reverence or with affection. Srikumar Banerjee will be remembered with affectionate reverence. Prof. Bikash Sinha is an Indian National Science Academy senior scientist and former Homi Bhabha Professor, Department of Atomic Energy, former director of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics and Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Modi announces Rs 500 crore immediate financial assistance for Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a Rs 500 crore immediate financial assistance for Odisha to meet its relief and rehabilitation needs in the wake of Cyclone Yaas that battered the coastal districts of the state on Wednesday and Thursday. The Prime Minister announced the package following an aerial survey of the havoc wreaked by Yaas in the worst-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts even though the state government did not seek any financial assistance from the Centre to deal with the situation immediately. Modi also announced Rs 500 crore for the cyclone-triggered damages in Bengal and Jharkhand. The Centre will send an inter-ministerial team to the cyclone-affected states, including Odisha, to assess the full-extent of the damage. Besides, an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2 lakh will be given to the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 to those injured in the cyclone. Odisha lost three lives to Cyclone Yaas. After reaching Bhubaneswar on Friday morning, Modi held a review meeting with the senior officials of the state government at the Biju Patnaik Airport. Governor Prof Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the two Union ministers hailing from Odisha, Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi were present at the meeting. Instead of seeking immediate financial assistance to deal with the cyclone’s aftermath Odisha sought the Centre’s help in finding long term solutions to problems connected with natural disasters like cyclones. It sought the Centre’s help in developing a disaster-resistant power infrastructure in the coastal belt vulnerable to cyclones and strengthening of saline embankments which got breached at many places this time resulting in inundation of residential areas, paddy fields and prawn culture enclosures close to the sea. Following the meeting, Naveen tweeted, “Apprised him about the large-scale devastation caused by the cyclone and steps taken by the State Govt ahead of the cyclone and the ongoing restoration efforts. As the country is at the peak of #COVID19 pandemic, we have not sought any immediate financial assistance to burden the Central Govt and would like to manage it through our own resources to tide over the crisis.” On the issue of assistance, Naveen tweeted, “Sought assistance for long term measures to make #Odisha disaster resilient as we are frequented by such climate hazards every year. Highlighted #Odisha’s demand for disaster resilient power infrastructure and resilient coastal protection with storm surge resilient embankments.” Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena said: “We made an eight-minute long video film on the kind of havoc wreaked by Yaas. Each time during cyclone Odisha’s power structure is badly hit. Besides, the saline embankments suffer damage. Keeping this in view we sought two long term solutions — one is a disaster resilient power infrastructure and the other is disaster resilient saline embankments to ward off storm surges during cyclones.” Saline water entered many areas in the wake of the cyclone marooning nearly 128 villages in the coastal belt of Bhadrak, Balasore and Kendrapara. A flash flood like situation was created in Balasore district in northern Odisha also because of torrential rains that caused river Subarnarekha to swell. The water resources department has cautioned people to move away from the low-lying areas to safer places. “The tidal surge can go up to seven to eight metres and cause havoc in areas close to the sea shore. Therefore, its time for robust planning to strengthen the 480km long coastline,” Jena said. During the 1999 super cyclone, sea water had ingressed into land up to nearly 10km. That cyclone had caused 10,000 deaths. In the last 30 months, the state has faxed six cyclones including Phani and Amphan. On Modi’s announcement to the state, former Union minister and former Balasore MP Sirkant Jena said, “Modi should initiate steps for completion of work on the super speciality hospital and public health schools in Balasore. Both the projects were sanctioned during the UPA regime but no progress has been made on them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Covid: SC takes up CBSE and ICSE Class XII exam-scrap petition||The Supreme Court on Friday hoped that the Centre would take a decision by Monday on whether to scrap the CBSE and ICSE Class XII exams in view of the pandemic. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari was hearing a petition from advocate Mamta Sharma seeking the cancellation of the Class XII board exams and evaluation on the basis of internal assessments. Both the CBSE and the ICSE have cancelled the Class X exams but have said they would decide in early June whether to go ahead with the Class XII exams. The Class X students will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in internal assessments. The petitioner has complained that though the CBSE and the ICSE have cancelled the Class X exams, no such benefit has yet been extended to the Class XII students, which amounted to discrimination and violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and personal liberty). “Be optimistic. Maybe by Monday some resolution will be in your favour. The government may take a decision,” the Supreme Court orally told Sharma. The bench said it would again hear the matter on May 31, before the two school boards are likely to take a decision. The court dictated the following written order: “We permit the petitioner-in-person to serve advance copy on the standing counsel for the respondent(s), namely, Central Agency, CBSE, ICSE and also the office of the learned attorney-general of India…. List this matter on Monday, i.e. 31st May, 2021, at 11am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Leader of militia group, launched by Adityanath, held for murder||A leader of a militia launched by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath two decades ago has been arrested on the charge of robbing and killing a trader and then sending police on a wild goose chase by threatening a movement if the “culprits” were not nabbed. Kirtiman Gupta, the Bangarmau town president of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, and his friends Vicky Soni and Akshay Singh had gone to the shop of  Satish Chandra Gupta on May 12 after a drinking session. Kirtiman shot Satish in the head and the trio made away with Rs 3 lakh in cash and gold rings, said Unnao police chief Anand Kulkarni. “We traced the location of three mobile phones active near the scene of the May 12 crime. We tracked the cellphones and reached Kirtiman, Vicky and Akshay,” he said. “Kirtiman had tried to fool us by threatening a movement if the culprits were not arrested soon”, a police source said. The Hindu Yuva Vahini said it had suspended Kirtiman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Move to auction cattle heads receive setback||The Lakshadweep administration’s controversial move to auction 76 heads of cattle belonging to state-run dairy farms has received a setback with local people boycotting the process by not making a single bid. Lakshadweep has been protesting the administration’s decision to shut down the two dairy farms on the Kavaratti and Minicoy islands, which they see as a ploy to make Gujarat-based Amul the sole supplier of dairy products in the Union Territory. In a letter to the director of the animal husbandry department in capital Kavaratti, the veterinary assistant surgeon in charge of the auction said on Friday that no bids had been received and sought instructions on “further necessary action”. The deadline for the bids was 3pm on Thursday, according to the auction notice issued by the department on May 24 to dispose of 44 milch cows, 8 bulls and 24 calves and heifers. Shutting down the dairy farms that had for years served the local population is one of many controversial decisions taken after BJP politician Praful Khoda Patel assumed charge as administrator of the Union Territory last December. Several MPs have written to the President seeking the recall of Patel, accused of imposing a “Sangh parivar agenda” that includes a move to ban beef in the Muslim-majority archipelago, a crackdown on dissent, a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, a drive against non-vegetarianism and destruction of the fishing infrastructure. Currently, non-BJP parties have joined hands to prepare a mass petition for Patel’s recall. These parties, which had campaigned for a boycott of the cattle auction, have promised to continue their protests until all the controversial legislations are rolled back. “The people will continue to boycott every single move of this administration until they withdraw all the anti-people reforms and legislations,” Kavaratti district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party told The Telegraph on Friday. He added: “Many years ago we used to get our dairy products from Milma (the Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation). Then our animal husbandry department started the two dairy farms. But now Patel wants to shut them down to provide the local market on a platter to Amul just because it is from Gujarat.” There have been calls for Lakshadweep to boycott Amul products, with #BoycottAmul trending on Twitter over the last few days. On Thursday, the administration’s first attempt at explaining some of the contentious decisions had boomeranged, triggering further protests. Defending the Goonda Act that allows a year’s detention without trial, Lakshadweep collector S. Asker Ali had accused local youths of rampant drug abuse, especially on Kiltan island. He had cited the seizure of large quantities of heroin from a “vessel near Minicoy”. However, A.K. Abdul Gafoor, NCP general secretary, in a statement termed the allegation “pure nonsense” and said the Sri Lanka-flagged vessel seized by the coast guard in March was 120 nautical miles from Minicoy. Youth Congress workers in Kiltan on Friday torched the collector’s effigy and sought an apology for “lying” about the local youths. Residents have been holding up placards against the collector in their own courtyards in view of the Covid restrictions. Collector Ali had said the vessel carried 300kg of heroin worth Rs 3,000 crore, four AK-47 rifles and 1,000 live rounds, but admitted it was a “foreign boat” only under questioning from reporters. Ali said the overturning of the liquor ban in Lakshadweep and the plans to reform land laws to allow buying by outsiders were meant to encourage tourism and that the relaxation of quarantine protocols — blamed for a Covid surge — was aimed at boosting economic activities. This, however, seems to have deepened residents’ fears that the Centre wants to provide large tracts on the pristine islands to big companies keen to launch tourism projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Kerala academy to rethink literary award for Vairamuthu||A Kerala academy has said it will re-examine its decision to name Tamil poet-lyricist Vairamuthu for a prestigious literary award instituted in the memory of a revered Malayalam poet, following a massive uproar over the selection of a person accused by many women of sexual harassment. The ONV Cultural Academy, which gives out the ONV Literary Award, was set up in Thiruvananthapuram after the death in 2016 of O.N.V. Kurup, one of the most respected Malayalam poets who had also stood up for women’s rights. What intensified the controversy and the objection to the selection of Vairamuthu was Academy head Adoor Gopalakrishnan, the noted filmmaker, appearing to defend the choice. “The ONV Literary Award is not something that needs to be given after examining one’s character. The award is given after examining the quality of writing. Otherwise a special award needs to be given for character,” Gopalakrishnan was quoted by Malayalam news portal The Cue as saying. On Friday, two days after naming Vairamuthu, the Academy issued a brief statement signed by Gopalakrishnan, stating that the award jury had decided to re-examine the nomination. “It is informed that the ONV Cultural Academy has decided to re-examine this year’s ONV Literary Award based on the directions of the award committee,” the statement said. Seventeen women had accused Vairamuthu, a cult figure in Tamil literature and film industry, of sexual harassment during the “MeToo” movement in 2018. Choosing Vairamuthu for the award triggered a massive uproar from writers and film professionals part of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC). Writer and columnist N.S. Madhavan contested the comments attributed to Gopalakrishnan. “Adoor is so wrong when he said that the ONV award was given to Vairamuthu for his writing and not character. Remember 2018 Nobel for Literature was cancelled because there were #MeToo charges against the husband of a jury member. Be sensitive when you deal with arts, please.” Instituted in the memory of Kurup, the award is given to poets writing in Malayalam and other Indian languages. Previous awardees include Malayalam literary giants such as M.T. Vasudevan Nair, Sugatakumari, Mahakavi Akkitham and M. Leelavathy. Singer Chinmayi was among the first women to level allegations of sexual misconduct against Vairamuthu. In 2018, she accused him of molesting her during a tour to Switzerland in 2005 or 2006. She and her mother had to return to India when she refused to “cooperate” — an industry innuendo for sexual favours — with Vairamuthu, Chinmayi had said. Malayalam writer K.R. Meera, who was among those who strongly objected to picking Vairamuthu for the honour, welcomed the change of mind of the jury. “The award jury is now saying, without actually spelling it out, that they are with women. But if they had gone ahead by ignoring all the protests, that would have explicitly meant that they were not with the women, especially the survivors of sexual harassment,” Meera told The Telegraph. While many have argued that character must be considered while nominating people for such prestigious awards, Meera said it was beyond just someone’s disposition. “It doesn’t have any connection with character. It is instead workplace sexual harassment that is getting brushed under the carpet by highlighting his (Vairamuthu’s) character,” she said, referring to Gopalakrishnan’s purported comment. “Sexual harassment inflicts pain not just on a woman’s body. It is her dignity that bears the pain for the rest of her life,” Meera said, citing the importance of being sensitive while dealing with such issues. The WCC also highlighted the workplace sexual harassment angle. “During the... #IndianMeToo movement that started in 2018, allegations were made against Vairamuthu by 17 women and most refer to workplace sexual harassment,” the collective said in a statement on Facebook. Women from the Malayalam film industry have also reacted sharply to Vairamuthu’s selection. “ONV sir is our pride. His contribution as a poet and lyricist is incomparable; how it has nourished our culture. Our hearts and minds have benefited through his body of work. This is exactly why it is immense disrespect to give such an honour in his name to an accused of sexual assault crimes,” Parvathy posted on Instagram on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
