30-05-2021||India||Centre-state relations more strained under Modi govt: Veerappa Moily||Former Union minister M Veerappa Moily on Sunday said that relations between the Centre and states have become "more strained" under the Narendra Modi government and urged the prime minister to revive the Planning Commission to strengthen cooperative federalism. He also called for a meeting of the National Integration Council, which finds ways and means to combat the evils of communalism, casteism, regionalism and linguism. In an interview to PTI-Bhasha, the senior Congress leader hit out at Modi, saying in a democracy, one man's thinking cannot replace national thinking. The union government needs to collaborate with state governments rather than behaving like a big brother , he said. Describing the Centre's decision to recall West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as an assault on federalism , he said such actions would only create friction. The union government should not act as a big brother. This is not pleasant. Just because there is some misunderstanding, you cannot just recall the chief secretary. This is not a good development. This is an assault on federalism, the former Karnataka chief minister said. Referring to the row over Modi's meeting with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the wake of cyclone Yaas, Moily said one should not politicise the issue when the state is in distress. The prime minister should lend his support rather than finding fault with the chief minister, he said. Moily, the former head of the Administrative Reforms Commission (ARS), claimed that the Centre's relationship with states has become more strained , especially after Modi took the reins in 2014, and slammed the Union government for doing politics even during times of a pandemic and calamities. The Congress or the UPA (United Progressive Alliance) never used to politicise such issues. They never used to bring politics into it. But now politics has started in everything. Introspections will have to be made by the prime minister himself," the Congress leader said. They should not act as big brother. They will have to cooperate and collaborate with state governments, he said. The former union minister said that the Centre cannot distinguish between citizens, and any such practice would be a dangerous trend for the unity and integrity. It will ultimately affect the unity of the country, he said. Moily said it is high time that the prime minister convenes a meeting of the NIC. Such a concept has been forgotten. The NIC meetings used to be very important and its proceedings used to bind all the states together. It is the best method to unite and strengthen federalism, which has to be revived, he said. Calling the NITI Aayog a department of the government, Moily said that the concept of Planning Commission was best . Planning Commission was there for financial integration which used to enjoy a lot of autonomy. The planning commission concept was best and it had served the country. It will have to be revived, he said adding it was high-time that the prime minister rethink on all these things which he has held up. Stressing on the need for implementation of recommendations of the second Administrative Reforms Commission, Moily said as its chairman, he had given 15 reforms on various aspects, including disaster management, but the Union government has just forgotten it. One unfortunate aspect of this Modi government after 2014 is that they don't have institutional memory which the Congress party had. The nation needs institutional memory, not political memory. The 15 reports given on various aspects should be looked back again and they will have to be implemented, he said. The Congress leader said all these anarchies and confusions are because one person likes to control everything. One man's thinking will not be national thinking, national thinking should be the thinking of the PM, he said hitting out at the Centre and added that after all, states should have enough and sufficient autonomy which can't be taken away on everything. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Jabs being diverted to private hospitals for BJP MLAs to earn commission: AAP||Covid vaccines that were supposed to be supplied to state governments are being diverted to private hospitals so that BJP MLAs can “fill their pockets with huge commission,” the Aam Aadmi Party alleged on Sunday. However, the BJP's Delhi unit said AAP leaders, it seems, “are campaigning for highly priced foreign-made vaccines’ manufacturers” and every time say recorded statements on vaccine shortage when Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India have assured normal supply in the next 10-15 days. Addressing a press conference, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and MLA Atishi said that the BJP is earning "heavy commission" through private hospitals and a proof of this has emerged from Karnataka. It involves BJP MP Tejasvi Surya and Ravi Subramanya, she said. The Congress on Saturday had accused Surya and his uncle Ravi Subramanya, an MLA in Karnataka, of making money through vaccines and demanded that an FIR be registered against them and they be removed as MP and MLA respectively. The BJP leaders have, however, denied the charge. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that according to an audio tape leaked through social media, Subramanya purportedly took a bribe of Rs 700 per vaccine at a private hospital in Karnataka. Surya has been seen promoting the hospital in advertisements, he alleged. AAP’s Atishi alleged that according to call records, the private hospital clearly stated that they are administering vaccines at expensive rates because they have to “feed” the MLA’s office with huge commission. “The call records also reveal that in order to get vaccine, people are being forced to get themselves registered at the MLA office just so that BJP politicians can earn their commission and fill their pockets,” she said. Atishi claimed that the BJP is indulging in a “vaccine scam” in these testing times at the cost of the lives of people. “Vaccines which were supposed to be supplied to state governments are being diverted to private hospitals just so that BJP MLAs can fill their pockets with huge commissions,” she claimed. “The state government which is immunising people for free is not getting any vaccines but private hospitals and private hotels are getting huge supply. What kind of connivance is this of the Centre,” Atishi asked. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said no doubt that there is a slight slow inflow of Covid vaccines but both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of Indian have assured that supply will be normal in the next 10 to 15 days. “Despite this reassurance by manufacturers one fails to understand that why every day AAP leaders like Atishi play their recorded statement on vaccine shortage and need for allowing import of foreign-made vaccines. It seems they are campaigning for highly priced foreign-made vaccines' manufacturers," he said. “AAP leaders say that they want free vaccines but they campaign for import of highly-priced foreign vaccines which no government can provide for free,” Kapoor said. The Delhi BJP spokesperson said at press conferences, AAP leaders pretend to be against costly vaccines at highly-priced vaccination centres like malls, hotels and private hospitals. But every other day we find Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his other ministers inaugurating such highly-priced vaccination Centres, Kapoor said. “People want Atishi to answer if the AAP leadership is against costly vaccines, then why the chief minister is inaugurating such private centres,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||It’s safer in jail: 21 prisoners in UP say no to parole amid pandemic||Most people would do anything to get out of jail. But that's not the case with 21 inmates in nine prisons of Uttar Pradesh who have written to authorities saying they don't want parole as staying incarcerated is "safer and healthier" for them during the Covid-19 pandemic. Parole is a temporary suspension of prison sentence. The inmates who have made such a request are lodged in nine jails of the state, including in Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Maharajganj, Gorakhpur and Lucknow, Director General of Jail Administration Anand Kumar told PTI on Sunday. The reason is that if they get a 90-day parole, then this will get added to the punishment term, he said. “The other overriding reason which they give is that if they go out, they will not get food and other healthcare facilities, which they get in the jails. “The inmates say health checkup is done regularly in the jails. They get food on time, they are safe and healthy in jails. The inmates say that once they go out of the jail, they will have to struggle to earn a living,” Kumar said. There are four such requests from Lucknow jail, three from Ghaziabad and two from Maharajganj jail. Asked what is the jail administration's response to the request of the inmates, Kumar said, “Since they have given it in writing, obviously we have to accept their stand and honour it.” Kumar also said over 2,200 inmates have been released on interim parole, and more than 9,200 prisoners have been given interim bail. In all, around 11,500 inmates have been released following recommendations of a high-powered committee on the orders of the Supreme Court, he said. Taking note of an “unprecedented surge” in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court on May 8 passed directions for decongestion of prisons and ordered forthwith release of all those prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic. In March last year, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to free 11,000 prisoners from 71 jails pursuant to a Supreme Court directive to decongest jails across the country in the wake of the Covid-19 contagion. On March 16, 2020, the top court had taken suo motu cognisance of overcrowding of prisons across the country and had said it is difficult for jail inmates to maintain social distance to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The Supreme Court had directed all states and union territories to constitute high-level committees to consider giving parole or interim bail to prisoners and under-trials for offences entailing up to seven-year jail term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Monsoon delayed by two days, to enter Kerala by June 3||The arrival of monsoon over Kerala is likely to be delayed by two days and it is now expected to make an onset over the state by June 3, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. IMD Director General M Mohapatra said there is cyclonic circulation along the Karnataka coast which is hindering the progress of the southwest monsoon. "The southwesterly winds could strengthen further gradually from June 1, resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3," the IMD said. Due to strengthening of lower level southwesterly winds, fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely over northeastern states during the next five days. The normal onset date for the southwest monsoon over Kerala is June 1. This marks the start of the four-month rainfall season for the country. Earlier this month, the IMD had predicted the arrival of monsoon over Kerala by May 31 with an error margin of plus or minus five days. The Southwest monsoon, which brings more than 75 per cent of rainfall to the country, is expected to be normal this year, the IMD had said earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Modi changed lives of millions of farmers, claims Javadekar||Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government has changed the lives of millions of farmers with landmark decisions and reforms, and also ensured "affordable and quality health service" to the people in the last seven years. On the seventh anniversary of the Modi government, he congratulated the prime minister for the work done so far in the service of the country and the welfare of the people under his leadership. He said the day is being marked as "Seva Divas" (Service Day), and called upon the people to participate. "Congratulations to Prime Minister Modi ji for the work that has been done for the service of the country and the welfare of the people for seven years. Today, this day is being celebrated as 'Seva Divas'. You should also be a participant in the programme in your neighbourhood," the Union minister said in a series of tweets in Hindi and English. Javadekar said the Modi government has "dedicatedly worked towards the welfare of the farmers in the last seven years and has changed the lives of millions of farmers with landmark decisions and reforms in the agriculture sector." "Shri @narendramodi Government has ensured affordable and quality healthcare services for all the citizens in these 7 years and continues to effectively reform and strengthen the healthcare sector of the country at an unprecedented scale," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Two men seen throwing body of Covid patient into UP river, video surfaces||Two men, one of them wearing a PPE kit, were caught on tape rolling down a coronavirus patient's body from over a bridge into a river in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district. The video was shot by some people who were driving by the spot. After the visuals surfaced, police registered a case. Balrampur Chief Medical Officer Vijay Bahadur Singh on Sunday said the body has been identified as that of Prem Nath Mishra, a resident of Sohratgarh in UP's Siddharth Nagar district. "Prem Nath Mishra was hospitalised on May 25 after he contracted Covid-19 and succumbed to the disease on May 28. The body was handed over to family members as per the Covid-19 protocol. In the video, which went viral on social media, it can be seen that the body was thrown into the Rapti river."  He said a case has been registered at the Kotwali police station in this regard. Earlier in the month, several bodies were seen floating in the Ganga and Yamuna rivers in the state, triggering apprehensions that these were of Covid-19 patients. The authorities too had urged people not to dispose of bodies into rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||On Modi government’s 7th anniversary, Congress releases 7-point list of ‘blunders’||On the 7th anniversary of the Narendra Modi dispensation, the Congress on Sunday alleged that it is harmful for the country as it has failed on every front and betrayed people's trust. The Congress released a seven-point charge sheet of "blunders" it accused the government of committing and alleged that the Modi dispensation abdicated its responsibilities towards people. The Congress listed out what it called the major failures of the government, including a declining economy, rising unemployment and inflation, and Covid-19 mismanagement. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the government needs to have the right intention, policy and determination to fight the coronavirus and not just a monthly talk. "You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona and not just a pointless talk once in a month," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, on a day when Prime Minister Modi delivered his monthly "Mann ki Baat" radio address. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the last seven years have been a story of unprecedented devastation, abdication of responsibility and abandonment of India's people by a government that was showered with all the love and affection. "This government is harmful for the country as it has betrayed the faith of people of India. It is betraying the trust and the innate faith the people reposed in prime minister Narendra Modi," he said. "This is a deception of the worst kind heaped upon 140 crore Indians by a government they elected based on innumerable promises. After seven years time has come to do stock-taking. Time has come to ask why the country is suffering," he said.  The Congress also came out with a 4.5-minute video, "Bharat Mata ki Kahani", listing out the "failures" of the government in the last seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Nearly 12 crore Covid vaccines to be available in June, says health ministry||Nearly 12 crore doses of coronavirus vaccine will be available in June, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. In May, 7,94 crore doses were available for vaccination. In a statement, the ministry said the allocation of supplies to states and union territories is decided on the consumption pattern, population and vaccine wastage. "Visibility for availability of vaccines for the entire month of June 2021 has been provided well in advance to States/UTs...," it said. "For the month of June, 6.09 crore (6,09,60,000) doses of Covid vaccines will be supplied to the States and UTs for vaccination of priority group of Health Care Workers (HCWs), Front-Line Workers (FLWs) and person aged 45 years + and above as free supply from Government of India," the ministry said. "In addition, more than 5.86 crore (5,86,10,000) doses will be available for direct procurement by the state/UTs and Private Hospitals. Therefore, in June 2021 close to 12 crore (11,95,70,000) doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme," it said. The ministry said the delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared with states in advance. "States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimize the vaccine wastage. The basic objective behind informing the States/UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Centre for 15/30 days and the total vaccine doses which are available for direct procurement by States/UTs is to ensure better planning and delivery of vaccine by States/UTs," it said. For the month of May, 4,03,49,830 vaccine doses have been made available by the Union Government to states. In addition, 3,90,55,370 doses were available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in May. "Therefore, in May 2021 a total number of 7,94,05,200 doses were available for the national Covid vaccination programme," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Nadda hits out at Opposition on BJP govt’s seventh anniversary||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday said while his party workers and leaders have been carrying out relief work amid the coronavirus pandemic, the opposition parties have gone into quarantine. Addressing party workers virtually on the seventh anniversary of the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre, the BJP chief said all party MPs, ministers and MLAs will serve people in at least two villages following Covid-19 protocols and lockdown guidelines to mark the occasion. BJP workers standing with the people during the pandemic unlike the Opposition leaders who are only visible in virtual press conferences, he said. Nadda said party workers in one lakh villages and hamlets are serving the needy to mark the occasion. Targeting the Opposition parties, Nadda said those making a noise about Covid-19 vaccine now are the ones who earlier raised doubts about the jabs. BJP workers is observing the anniversary as "Seva Diwas". In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP has decided not to celebrate the seventh anniversary of its government at the Centre, but instead organise relief works across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||India sent documents related to Mehul Choksi’s deportation to Dominica: Antigua PM||India sent a private jet to Dominica carrying documents related to the deportation of fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore bank loan fraud case, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne told a radio show in his country. There was, however, no immediate official confirmation from Indian authorities about it. A Qatar Airways private jet landed at the Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica, Antigua News Room reported, leading to speculations about deportation of Choksi who was detained in the Caribbean island nation after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda. Browne told the radio show that the jet came from India carrying necessary documentation needed for deportation of the businessman, the media outlet reported. Publicly available data of Qatar Executive flight A7CEE shows that it left the Delhi airport at 3.44 pm on May 28 and reached Dominica at 13.16 local time on the same day, via Madrid. The Dominica High Court stayed the removal of Choksi from its soil and put a gag order on the developments till the matter is heard in an open court on June 2. Choksi has alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and taken to Dominica. Purported pictures of 62-year-old Choksi that have surfaced in Dominica show him with a red swollen eye and bruises on his hands. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted for allegedly siphoning Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking. While Modi is in a London prison after being repeatedly denied bail and is contesting his extradition to India, Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme before fleeing India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently. Both are facing a CBI probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||India producing 10 times more medical grade oxygen now, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that providing medical grade oxygen to different states during the second wave of Covid-19 was a challenge but the Indian Air Force, the railways and scores of tanker drivers worked overtime to ensure that it was delivered to those in need on time. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, he also touched upon his government's seventh anniversary on Sunday and said the nation has followed the mantra of "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas" in this period. There have been many moments of national pride, he said. Apart from many successes, there were some stern tests as well, he said, referring to the pandemic. The nation fought its first wave with courage, and this too will be defeated, he asserted. Speaking of various natural disasters, the prime minister said more lives were saved compared to the past. He underlined that the Centre and the states are working together to mitigate the sufferings of the people. Modi spoke with a liquid oxygen tanker driver, a woman railway driver and an air force officer involved in the transportation of oxygen and related equipment to drive home the point on how these people are working overtime to ensure oxygen reaches those in need. In normal times daily production of liquid medical oxygen was 900 MT, which has now risen over 10 times to nearly 9,500 MT, the prime minister noted. He said despite the pandemic, the farmers ensured record production of crop and the government also made record procurement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Google, Facebook, WhatsApp share details of grievance officers as per IT Rules||Large digital companies like Google and Facebook have begun updating their websites to reflect the appointment of the grievance officers under the new social media rules that came into effect recently. According to government sources, large social media companies like Google, Facebook and WhatsApp have shared details with the IT Ministry as per the requirement of the new digital rules, but Twitter is still not following the norms. The new rules require significant social media intermediaries - those with other 50 lakh users - to appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India. Industry sources said Facebook and WhatsApp have already shared their compliance report with the Ministry of Electronics and IT, and that the details of the new grievance officers appointed are being updated to replace the existing information on these platforms. Google's 'Contact Us' page shows details of Joe Grier as a contact person with an address from Mountain View, US. The page also contains details on the grievance redressal mechanism for YouTube. As per the rules, all intermediaries have to prominently publish on their website, app or both, the name of the grievance officer and his/her contact details as well as the mechanism by which a user or a victim may make a complaint. The grievance officer will have to acknowledge the complaint within 24 hours and dispose of such complaint within a period of 15 days from the date of its receipt; and receive and acknowledge any order, notice or direction issued by the authorities. The government sources on Friday had said that Twitter is not following the norms. Twitter has not sent details of the chief compliance officer to the IT Ministry, and shared details of a lawyer working in a law firm as a nodal contact person and grievance officer, they added. This when the IT rules clearly require these designated officers of the significant social media platforms to be employees of the company and resident in India, they pointed out. While Twitter did not respond to email queries on the issue, its website mentions Dharmendra Chatur as the 'Resident Grievance Officer for India (Interim)'. Google, Facebook and WhatsApp also did not respond to detailed email queries on the appointment of the personnel as required by the new IT rules. The sources had earlier said that besides Google, Facebook and WhatsApp, other significant social media intermediaries like Koo, Sharechat, Telegram and LinkedIn too have shared details with the ministry as per the requirement of the IT norms. Under the new rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity, pornography etc. The Centre has said the new rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. After the new norms came into effect on May 26, the IT Ministry had turned up the heat on significant social media companies, asking them to immediately report compliance and provide details of the three key officials appointed. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines the sovereignty of India, the security of the state, or public order. The large platforms have to also publish periodic compliance reports every month mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon, and the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools or other reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||India logs 1.65 lakh new cases, lowest in 46 days||India recorded a single-day rise of 1,65,553 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 46 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,78,94,800, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The daily positivity declined to 8.02 per cent, remaining below the 10 per cent-mark for five consecutive days, while the weekly positivity rate dropped to 9.36 per cent, it said. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 3,25,972 in the country with 3,460 fatalities being recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,63,839 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Saturday, taking the total number of such exams so far to 34,31,83,748, the ministry said. The number of active cases has reduced to 21,14,508, comprising 7.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 91.25 per cent, it said. The count of the daily new cases is the lowest in 46 days. India recorded 1,61,736 infections on April 13. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,54,54,320, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Illegal for hospitals to collaborate with hotels for Covid vaccinations, says Centre||The Centre has asked states and union territories to initiate legal or administrative action against institutions which are giving packages for Covid vaccination in collaboration with hotels in violation of prescribed guidelines. In a letter to all states and UTs, Additional Secretary to Health ministry Manohar Agnani said it has come to the notice of the Union health ministry that some private hospitals are giving package for Covid vaccination in collaboration with some hotels, which is against the guidelines issued for the National Covid Vaccination Program. Apart from government Covid vaccination centre and private Covid vaccination centre, workplace, near home Covid vaccination centre for elderly and differently-abled persons to be organised at group housing societies, there are no other avenues to carry out vaccination under the national Covid Vaccination Program so vaccination carried out in star hotels is contrary to the guidelines and must be stopped immediately, Agnani was quoted as saying in the letter. "Necessary legal and administrative actions should be initiated against such institutions. Therefore, you are also requested to monitor and ensure that the National Covid Vaccination drive is carried out as per the prescribed guidelines," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: No word on US jab share ||Vaccine procurement, particularly from the 80 million doses that the Americans have pledged to release into the global pool, and stepping up production in India were top on external affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s US visit, but there was no announcement forthcoming from either side after a series of meetings over the past couple of days. Ever since the US announced that it would share 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in the country with the world and also place an additional 20 million of its other Covid vaccines in the global stockpile, India has been hoping to get a sizeable share given the crisis it is facing. When Jaishankar was asked by reporters in Washington if it was discussed, he said it was at a “conceptual level’’ but indicated that it was a decision for the US to take. Earlier this week, sources in New Delhi had said India was not expecting any announcement during the visit as the Americans had said they would reveal their distribution plans by July 4. In a related briefing on the meeting, US acting assistant secretary in the state department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, Dean Thompson, said in reply to a question on vaccine procurement by India: “I’m not going to get into the very specific angles of what was discussed but certainly vaccine manufacture, procurement, delivery — the larger question of how we can cooperate together… — were covered today.” During the Quad summit in March, a Vaccine Initiative had been announced which envisaged the pooling of individual capacities in the four member countries to expedite global delivery. As part of this, India is to manufacture vaccines developed in the US. Since then, India’s claim to being the pharmacy of the world has taken a severe beating as the country’s own Covid inoculation programme has faltered due to shortage of vaccines, forcing New Delhi to ban exports which, in turn, has impacted immunisation in several countries. Pressed again for details of the distribution of the 80 million vaccines the US plans to share with the world, Thompson said: “Final decisions are still pending and discussions and work are still underway to determine how and where those will be done. There will be a combination of efforts with Covax and with our partners as we go forward. But those efforts are still underway.” Covax is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. As for the indemnity issue that pharma companies are insisting upon from any claims for adverse side effects, Indian external affairs ministry sources maintained that their ministry was not the nodal agency for this. Asked in the US, Jaishankar also said as much — that these discussions are going on between the companies concerned and those authorised in India to negotiate with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Congress raises voice against  Modi govt’s decision to recall Bengal chief secretary||The Congress on Saturday described the Narendra Modi government’s decision to recall Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as a “lethal blow” to federalism, arguing that such “unilateral”, “malicious” and “revengeful” actions would destroy the constitutional structure of India. Bandyopadhyay was attached to the Centre on Friday and told to report to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) in Delhi by Monday after he and chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipped a cyclone review meeting Prime Minister Modi held at the Kalaikunda airbase in West Midnapore earlier in the day. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The abrupt, malicious and unilateral recall of Bengal’s chief secretary by the Modi government has shocked the conscience of the entire nation. This is double whammy, when viewed in light of the fact that the chief secretary had been granted an extension for three months by the government as recently as four days ago.” Surjewala added: “This is a lethal blow to the Constitution of India, as also federalism. If the Union government is permitted to recall the all-India service officers (IAS and IPS) from the states for bipartisan political considerations and at its whims and fancies, the entire architecture of the rule of law and the Constitution will crumble. “If the head of bureaucracy in a state, the chief secretary, will be summarily removed by the Union government, why would any IAS or IPS officer, whether a district magistrate or a secretary or a police officer, listen to and follow the orders of the state government or implement any policy or programme devised by it? This would lead to complete and total anarchy in the country.” Surjewala asked the Prime Minister, DoPT and the BJP to disclose the reason for the U-turn in recalling the Bengal chief secretary within four days of granting him an extension. In a separate statement, Surjewala said: “…The obviously coloured and revengeful recall of the chief secretary by the Modi government has given an unmistakable impression that the Union government is trying to dislodge a just-elected government. It becomes even more sinister in the background of the fact that the Prime Minister and all Union ministers had immersed themselves in the poll campaign in Bengal and yet the BJP was defeated.” The Congress leader appealed to every jurist, constitutional expert, elected representative and countryman to rise in unison to condemn the “unpardonable attack” on India’s constitutional ethos and the federal structure by the BJP government. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted: “Has any chief secretary anywhere in India in 74 years of independence been mandatorily/non-consensually asked to join central service within 48 hours on the date of retirement without state government consent or even consultation? Let the Centre educate me on this but the answer must be NO. Another first for West Bengal.” In the statement, Surjewala referred to the bail of four Bengal politicians, including two ministers, in the Narada case. “The interim… order granting bail to the Bengal ministers by a special CBI court was stayed by the first division bench (of Calcutta High Court) which led to… the constitution of a five-judge bench, which has since granted bail to the ministers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Priyanka accuses Modi govt’s lack of planning for the shortage of oxygen||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government’s lack of planning was responsible for the shortage of oxygen that devastated lives in the second wave of the pandemic, arguing that the Centre must be held accountable for the crisis. Continuing her social media series titled “Who is responsible”, Priyanka said the oxygen crisis that killed a large number of Covid patients occurred because the Centre had ignored specific warnings by a parliamentary committee as well as the government’s own empowered group on the pandemic, a charge the Congress has levelled several times in the recent past. She explained how India was capable of producing the required quantity of oxygen to prevent any crisis. Pointing out that the demand for oxygen at the peak of Covid-19 was 8,944 tonnes per day, Priyanka said: “This means that the oxygen shortfall at the peak of this wave was less than 1,500MT (as India’s capacity to produce oxygen stood at 7,500MT per day). So, what went wrong? The Modi government increased its oxygen exports by over 700 per cent in 2020, a pandemic year…. It also made no investments towards the early import of surplus oxygen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine ‘commission’ finger at MP Tejasvi Surya's kin ||A BJP lawmaker related to high-profile MP Tejasvi Surya has been accused of taking a “commission” for vaccines supplied to a private hospital in Bangalore after a social worker circulated an audio clip of a purported phone conversation between him and a hospital employee. In an audio clip that is being circulated, an unidentified woman who appears to be a hospital employee tells a male caller — identified as social worker Venkatesh by Kannada TV channels — that the facility has to pay Rs 700 for each vaccine dose to Ravi Subramanya and therefore charges Rs 900 for each jab. Subramanya, the Basavanagudi MLA and uncle of Bangalore South MP Surya, has denied the allegation. Venkatesh could not be contacted. The conversation in the clip does not identify the hospital or the vaccine, nor does it say from where the MLA may have sourced the vaccine he allegedly sold the hospital —from the state government, Centre or any other public or private agency. Currently, the Centre has been providing doses free to the states for inoculating those aged 45 or above at government facilities. For younger adults, the states need to buy directly from the vaccine makers — Covishield at Rs 300 and Covaxin at Rs 400 per dose. For private hospitals, the prices are Rs 600 for Covishield and Rs 1,200 for Covaxin. Private hospitals in Bangalore are charging Rs 850 to Rs 1,100 per Covishield dose and Rs 1,250 per Covaxin jab. In the audio clip, the male caller asks the woman to schedule a jab for his 28-year-old son. The entire conversation is in Kannada.The woman says the caller has to book an appointment on the Co-WIN app. When the man replies he is not tech savvy enough, the woman asks him to get his son to make the booking. The man asks what the vaccination charge is and is told it’s Rs 900. He reminds the woman that government clinics are offering free jabs. She responds: “You can get it from there (government clinics).... It is Ravi Subramanya who has given (the vaccines to us), and the charge is Rs 900.” The man asks whether the hospital indeed received the vaccines from Subramanya, and the woman says: “Yes, but we have to pay him cash…. Yes, he takes Rs 700 and we take Rs 200.” The man asks: “So you should pay Ravi Subramanya Rs 700?” The woman replies: “Yes, yes.” While denying the allegation, Subramanya has in a tweet identified the hospital as AV Multi-speciality Hospital in Hosakerahalli, south Bangalore. He said he had visited the hospital after the controversy broke, implying he had complained to its management. “Certain miscreants have used my name in an allegation about Covid vaccine charges through an audio recording,” the tweet says. “The couple who have colluded should be chastened so that public is not misguided with false allegations.” State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar has tweeted that an FIR should be registered against Subramanya “for taking commission for vaccines” and that the “HC must monitor the probe” and the MLA “should be disqualified by the Speaker”. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “People are dying of shortage of #vaccine and BJP leaders are making money (out) of their misery. Can there be a bigger crime, Mr Modi?” Earlier this month, Subramanya and Surya had barged into a Covid war room run by the Bangalore corporation and pulled up officials for hiring 16 Muslims to help run the facility. With the two lawmakers were party MLAs Satish Reddy and Uday Garudachar. Subramanya had asked the civic officials: “Did you make the appointments for a madrasa or a corporation?” The BJP lawmakers had alleged that the war room staff were involved in a cash-for-bed scam in which free Covid beds were being blocked illegally so they could be sold to patients willing to pay. But none of the 16 Muslims were among the 11 people the police later arrested in the case. Ironically, MLA Reddy’s aide Babu was arrested on Wednesday in connection with the scam that Surya, his uncle and Reddy had tried to communalise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Medical experts to study the real-world effectiveness of Covishield and Covaxin||Medical researchers have launched India’s first study to measure the real-world effectiveness of Covishield and Covaxin by documenting the vaccination status of Covid-19 patients admitted with severe disease at 11 sites across the country. The study by the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will compare the vaccination status of 1,300 patients with severe Covid-19 and 2,600 people who test negative for Covid-19. “If the vaccines are effective, we’d expect to find the proportion of unvaccinated people to be significantly higher in patients with severe disease than in people who test negative for Covid-19,” Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior scientist at the NIE and principal investigator of the study, told The Telegraph. The fractions of those vaccinated among the 1,300 hospitalised patients and the 2,600 Covid-19 negative people will yield estimates of effectiveness. For example, if 1,000 of the 1,300 with severe disease are unvaccinated and only 200 of the 2,600 negative controls are unvaccinated, that would imply vaccine efficacy. However, if 650 of the 1,300 with severe disease are unvaccinated and 1,300 of 2,600 negative controls are unvaccinated, that would mean there is no observed efficacy. The NIE will collaborate with the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences in Delhi, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur and Rishikesh and seven other hospitals in Chennai, Delhi, Kochi, Mysore, Nagpur, Puducherry, and Surat to recruit the study participants from different geographical regions. The ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, will sequence the genomes of the viruses from the Covid-19 positive cases to analyse the effectiveness of vaccines against different variants of the virus circulating in India. The study represents the first systematic effort to determine how well Covishield and Covaxin work in real-life conditions in India since the country launched its Covid-19 vaccination campaign in January. The campaign had until Saturday administered over 184 million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute, and over 22 million doses of Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Two doses are required for full protection. “Real-life evaluation studies are overdue in India,” said Santanu Tripathi, a clinical pharmacologist and former professor at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, who is not involved with the ICMR study. Tripathi had proposed in January this year a study to monitor one million vaccine recipients over a six-month period that would help estimate what proportion among them may develop Covid-19 infection. His proposal to Bengal’s health authorities had not evoked a favourable response, Tripathi said. Clinical trials earlier had found Covishield 82 per cent efficacious in protecting people from the infection with a 12-week gap between doses, while Covaxin was 78 per cent efficacious with a four-week gap between doses. Both vaccines were found to be 100 per cent efficacious against severe disease. But researchers underline that real-world effectiveness studies are critical to determine if efficacy observed in clinical trials in samples of volunteers under controlled conditions are replicated through population-based studies after millions of people have received doses. “Clinical trials assess efficacy, they probe the question; does it work? Effectiveness is performance in the real world. We’re asking the question: did it work?” Bhatnagar said. “Through our study, we will be able to get numbers for the effectiveness in terms of percentages.” Researchers say real-world effectiveness may deviate from clinical trial results as subtle variations in individuals’ responses to vaccines that remain undetectable in clinical trial samples may show up when large numbers of people are vaccinated. The emergence of variants with mutations that allow the virus to escape certain immune responses is another reason for assessing real-world effectiveness of vaccines. Genome studies have suggested that a variant designated B.1.617 with such mutations has likely contributed to India’s second Covid-19 wave. Health authorities in the UK have found that two doses of AstraZeneca vaccine were 60 per cent effective against symptomatic disease from the B.1.617 variant compared to 66 per cent effectiveness against B.1.1.7, a fast-spreading variant first detected in the UK. Bengal’s health department is preparing for an independent assessment of the vaccines through a study of around 500 patients with severe Covid-19 admitted over a seven-day period in five Calcutta hospitals. The Calcutta study, also proposed by Tripathi, will involve documenting the vaccination status of all these hospitalised Covid-19 patients and assess its association with disease severity or fatality, compared to those unvaccinated. The five sites are the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital, RG Kar Medical College Hospital, Medical College Hospital, Calcutta, MR Bangur Hospital and the Chittaranjan Cancer Research Institute. The study also seeks to provide an audit of treatment practices, especially the use of steroids and oxygen, and vaccination status of the patients with severe Covid-19. “We’ll be able to estimate rates of breakthrough infections in vaccinated people and compare the course of their disease and severity with infections in unvaccinated people,” Tripathi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: ‘Saffronisation’ of tree trunks deepens mistrust in Praful Khoda Patel||The Lakshadweep administration has been painting tree trunks saffron at a time its administrator Praful Khoda Patel has been accused of imposing a “Sangh parivar” agenda on the Muslim-majority archipelago. The bottom third of trees — including the islands’ emblematic coconut trees — have been painted in saffron and the middle third in white across much of Kavaratti and Agatti since April, Kavaratti CPM local committee member P.P. Rahim said. Kavaratti is the capital of the Union Territory and Agatti is home to its lone airport. Lakshadweep district panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress said the move was in itself perhaps trivial but appeared sinister in the context of the controversial decisions taken by Patel since his appointment last December. Among these are a move to ban beef, a crackdown on dissent, a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, a drive against non-vegetarianism and destruction of the fishing infrastructure — all of which have sparked fears of Lakshadweep being turned into “another Kashmir” through repression and intimidation. Trees in some cantonment towns in the country have been painted brick-red to add to the orderlyambience but defence sources said they were not aware of any hard and fast rule on the choice of the colour. Malika said painting trees in any colour was unprecedented on the islands, known for their pristine beauty. He said he couldn’t see any possible motive other than provoking the population through the choice of colour. “We are a simple people who never nursed any communal ideologies. In normal times, it wouldn’t have mattered what colour they were painting the trees in,” he said. “But since Patel’s agenda is based on his party’s ideology, there is much consternation among the people about trees being painted in saffron.” Malika added: “Like every contentious notification he issued, the administrator got his officials to paint the trees in saffron at a time when the people were forced to stay at home because of Covid.” Lakshadweep had stayed free of Covid through last year, till Patel arrived and relaxed the seven-day quarantine for people arriving from the mainland in the name of boosting economic activity — one of the earliest among his contentious decisions. With the spotlight so far focused on Patel’s major controversial measures — which have led to MPs writing to the President and a united Opposition preparing a mass petition for the administrator’s recall — the tree painting had passed under the radar. It became widely known only recently after some islanders shared pictures of the “saffronised” trees. “Everyone is taking note of this only now since we have all been busy battling the other controversial decisions,” Rahim, the CPM politician, said. Calls to an administration official in Kavaratti whose number this newspaper could collect remained unanswered. The Kavaratti village panchayat on Friday passed a unanimous resolution urging Patel to withdraw his “anti-people” measures. In Kerala, where all non-BJP parties have been calling for Patel’s immediate recall and withdrawal of his reforms, CPM youth wing DYFI on Saturday launched a campaign to send 1 lakh emails to President Ram Nath Kovind. Patel had been a Gujarat minister under then chief minister Narendra Modi from 2010 to 2012. Patel is believed to be close to both Modi and Amit Shah and is the first politician to be appointed administrator for Lakshadweep, till then run by bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Kenya donates tea, coffee and groundnuts to India as pandemic assistance||Kenya has donated tea, coffee and groundnuts to India as pandemic assistance, so that fatigued healthcare workers can have a “refreshing break with a cup of Kenyan tea or coffee”, after New Delhi decided to accept foreign help last month. While some countries have sent PPE kits, testing kits and masks — when what India needs are vaccines, oxygen and lifesaving equipment — the Kenyan donation has in particular become the subject of some chatter across social media platforms. The external affairs ministry has not commented on the subject. But sources had last month itself said that when Indian missions went scouting for material required at home, several countries offered not just what was needed but also other stuff they had in stock as a mark of goodwill. “Some of them offered to donate material which we have accepted with thanks,” a government source said, indicating that saying no to a goodwill gesture was not easy. Ironically, Kenya’s vaccination programme has been adversely affected by New Delhi’s flawed vaccination policy that has left India short of doses. Kenya had received 1 million doses of Covishield from India in March and was supposed to begin its second phase of vaccination in May. But with India banning exports, Kenya has not been able to administer the second dose. The Kenyan consignment of six tonnes of tea and three tonnes each of coffee and groundnuts has been accepted by the Indian Red Cross Society — through which all donations are being routed — and will be distributed in Maharashtra. The Kenyan mission said: “The Government of the Republic of Kenya took note that some countries expressed solidarity with India by donating medical equipment, oxygen and vaccines. Kenya, however, identified the special group — frontline healthcare givers.” Recognising their round-the-clock service and acknowledging “the many years’ excellent healthcare services provided to Kenyans by the Government of India”, Nairobi has put together the package for the frontline health workers to take a “refreshing break with a cup of Kenyan tea or coffee”, the mission added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Immune escape, with severity leash ||“Immune escape” is a theory about Covid-19 infection in people who have been vaccinated or were infected with Covid-19 earlier. Immune escape or evasion is a mechanism used by pathogenic, or disease-causing, organisms like the SARS-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) to evade the host’s immune responses and maximise their probability of being transmitted to a fresh host and continuing to replicate and spread. Pathogenic organisms undergo mutations over time. A mutation means some protein or a combination of sugar and proteins called glycoproteins on the surface of the organism changes. In the case of the coronavirus, the spike protein “S” changes its character. This has been found in the UK variant (B.1.1.7), Brazilian variant (P.1), South African variant (B.1.351) and the Indian variant (B.1.617). These mutant variants may be more infectious than the original Covid-19 virus and may rapidly spread through a community. The UK variant has a transmission rate about 40 times higher than those of the earlier circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants, according to research papers in medical and science journals. However, the severity of the infection caused by the UK variant did not show any significant difference compared to the non-mutant variant. But one study by the University of Bristol and Exeter has suggested a higher chance of hospitalisation and death compared with the original strain, concluding that the UK strain could be 64 per cent more deadly. It may be a matter of conjecture whether the human immune system is being jeopardised by this mutation. It is an idea without any conclusive proof. As of today, there is no consolidated data to establish the transmission rate or severity of the variant B.1.617, first detected in India. A paper published from the Cambridge Institute of Immunology and Infectious Diseases in collaboration with India’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology speculates, on the basis of observations among healthcare professionals in a single tertiary care hospital, that the Indian variant may have a relatively higher rate of transmission. The virulence of this variant and others circulating in India has not yet been properly studied. There is a double mutant Indian variant of Covid-19 which appears to have a relatively higher transmissibility although with unknown severity of virulence. Again, immune escape could be a possible explanation for this. Vaccines after inoculation inside the human body help develop antibodies by stimulating the host’s immune system. Mutant variants of the Covid-19 virus may escape these antibodies. The body’s immune system may fail to recognise them. Thus, inside human cells, infection by the virus may continue to grow and cause symptoms and at times complications. That is why people, even after full vaccination and even after previous Covid-19 infection, may get another attack. In some of them the disease becomes so complicated that the patients die. It might appear frustrating that while vaccines are developed to protect people from the coronavirus, these vaccines may often be unable to protect against a variety of Covid-19 strains because of what is known as “vaccine escape”. Effective vaccination certainly has a protective role against the Covid-19 virus and its variants. One small study conducted in South Africa showed people vaccinated with Covishield still contracting the coronavirus. This is often termed “vaccine escape”. In patients below 31 years of age, the protection from the Oxford Covishield vaccine was found to be low (10 per cent). Nevertheless, the severity of the infection was low and even the rate of hospitalisation was not too high. So, clearly, the vaccine offers protection against severe infection. Vaccine escape was not observed with other variants. However, although Covid vaccination may not offer 100 per cent protection, the severity of the infection and the complications are much less in vaccinated people unless the load of exposure to the new variant is high or the patient has significant co-morbidities like lung disease, diabetes, heart disease, cancer or kidney disease. For the Indian community, as of now, vaccination is extremely important. The protection varies from 76 per cent to 94 per cent. Vaccination certainly protects against critical complications. After the first wave of Covid-19, we are facing the second wave. There is a fear that the third wave will be on its way within the next six months. This is not surprising. To save lives from Covid-19 and its deadly variants we must upgrade the technology of vaccine production. The efficacy of the vaccines must cover a wide variety of Covid-19 strains. In India we are now facing the B.1.617 mutant strain, a double mutant strain. Another Indian variant, B.1.618, has already started creeping in. The Covid-19 virus is an RNA virus. Covishield is a “viral vectored vaccine”. This means Covishield uses the chimpanzee adenovirus with a fragment of SARS-CoV-2 RNA inserted inside the adenovirus by reverse transcription technology so that it becomes non-replicable in the human host but is stable enough to generate immunity against SARS-CoV-2. On the other hand, Covaxin has been made from a dead RNA virus. So, theoretically, Covaxin may appear superior although it is too early to draw such a conclusion. But further improvement of the vaccines, and possibly an interim vaccine boost, would be required to save human lives from this deadly microbe. Simultaneously, epidemiological understanding of the behaviour of the various mutant strains of the coronavirus and research on the precise mechanisms of immune escape by the Covid-19 virus will be mandatory. Till then we must get ourselves fully vaccinated and follow standard protocols like mask-wearing, sanitisation and social distancing. Dr Rabin Chakraborty is senior vice-chairman of Medica Superspeciality Hospital, Calcutta, associate editor of the Journal of Indian Medical Association and the author of Covid Tale: A Patient and a Doctor||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Vairamuthu declines ONV Literary Award after row   ||Tamil poet-lyricist Vairamuthu on Saturday backed off from accepting the prestigious ONV Literary Award in Kerala following an outcry over his selection despite facing sexual harassment allegations from many women who had worked with him. The Thiruvananthapuram-based ONV Cultural Academy, set up in the memory of Malayalam poet O.N.V. Kurup, had on Friday announced that its jury was re-examining the decision following the uproar. Vairamuthu’s nomination had been announced on Wednesday. Soon, writers and film personalities had objected to such a prestigious honour being accorded to a person who has been accused of sexual harassment by 17 women during the MeToo movement in 2018. The poet-lyricist on Saturday tweeted a video statement in Tamil withdrawing from the award. “The ONV Cultural Academy from Kerala had informed me that I have been chosen for its literary award for this year and I had welcomed it by thanking them,” Vairamuthu said. “But I came to know that they had decided to re-examine the award after interference from some people. I wonder whether this will belittle me and poet O.N.V. Kurup,” he said. “I am concerned that even the intellectual members of the jury would be in a delicate situation because of this. So I have decided not to accept this award,” Vairamuthu added. He claimed he was truthful and no one needed to test him. “I can say something with conviction, that is I have been very, very truthful. No one needs to test my honesty. So I have taken a well-thought-out decision and I am saying that with clarity and humility.” Vairamuthu has all along denied the allegations of sexual misconduct. He urged the Academy to donate the prize money of Rs 3 lakh to the Kerala Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund and announced a personal contribution of another Rs 2 lakh. “The prize money of Rs 3 lakh I request to be sent to the Kerala Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. As a sign of my love and respect for Kerala and the people of the state, I am sending Rs 2 lakh as my contribution to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. Let the sisterly bond between Kerala and Tamil Nadu prosper,” he said. Vairamuthu ended the message by thanking Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin and the Tamil diaspora who had congratulated him on being named for the ONV Literary Award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Inaction cry over twenty-two hooch death in Aligarh villages||Twenty-two people from four Aligarh villages have died after drinking hooch on Thursday amid allegations that police had earlier ignored complaints against the main accused, a panchayat member, and got the villagers to intimidate the complainant into silence. Sushma Devi, 28, of Karsua village told reporters on Saturday that she had complained to the local police and excise officials on April 30 when her brother Pushpendra Kumar, 35, died after drinking liquor distributed free by Rishi Sharma. “Rishi and his friend (and co-accused) Anil Chaudhary are local (Independent) politicians. They manufacture and sell illegal liquor. I had met some junior police and excise officials after my brother’s death,” Sushma said. “They ignored my complaint and mounted pressure on the villagers to prevent me from meeting their seniors. The villagers asked me to stay at home and stop pursuing the case.” Rishi and Anil were elected to the block development council (equivalent to a panchayat samiti) from the villages of Pala Kastali and Nagla Kunji, respectively, in last month’s panchayat elections. The deaths occurred in these two villages, Karsua and Cherath. Anil has been arrested while the state government has announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for information on Rishi. Also in hiding are the two other accused, Rishi’s younger brother Munish and Anil’s younger brother Sudhir, a government liquor contractor. “One can see Rishi with an Uttar Pradesh minister on his Facebook page. Both Rishi and Anil were BJP-supported panchayat candidates,” alleged Jamir Ullah, former Rashtriya Lok Dal MLA, who met some of the victims’ family members. Satish Gautam, Aligarh MP from the BJP, said: “Whoever they are, they will be punished. The government has decided to seize their properties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||US woman in visa case freed||Farida Malik, 54, a US national, who was arrested from Banbasa immigration check post in Champawat district of Uttarakhand on July 12, 2019, was released on Saturday. She was jailed for illegally entering India from Nepal and had been awarded four years of “rigorous” imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 20,000 by a local court. Malik’s lawyer Chandan Kargeti had claimed that she had left her passport in Nepal and also suffered bipolar disorder. In March 2021, Uttarakhand High Court had reduced her jail term to 11 months. The court had said in its order that the revisionist is an unmarried woman from the US and there is a cordial relationship between two countries. She did not commit any offence except the violation of visa rule. Malik was trying to visit India by a bus plying between Kathmandu and New Delhi.  Malik had failed to produce her travel permit and visa. Avinash Sharma, circle officer of Champawat, said: “Her medical examination was done on Saturday. She would be taken to Delhi and the Centre would make arrangement for her to travel back to the US.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Not home, alone||The first time it flashed on the phone, it seemed like fake news — an image of  two toddlers orphaned after they lost both parents to Covid-19. Tough to tell the truth about that one, but shortly thereafter came a message on the school WhatsApp group. Someone was reporting how a close acquaintance of her mother’s had died leaving behind her 15-year-old son. The boy had lost his father eight years ago; this was a devastating blow. He was suddenly bereft, no parents, no grandparents, maternal or paternal. There were no close relations he could rely on either. He had no option but to go with the district child protection unit after spending a few days with neighbours who his mother had entrusted him with before she boarded the ambulance. That was the last he ever saw of her. Soon popped up another case, a 19-year-old in Jaipur who lost both parents to the pandemic over the course of four days. His maternal aunt, a retired schoolteacher who lives in Calcutta, decided to take charge of the boy. “He is above 18 years of age. He is an adult but he is not a grown-up who can take care of himself or spend his life all alone, without any sense of belonging,” said Sumita Mitra (name changed), the aunt of the boy; she has applied for formal custody of her nephew. According to Sheikh Jinnar Ali, national chairman of the National Anti-trafficking Committee, self-help groups active in rural Bengal have reported many such cases. “It was only last week that I heard of two cases — one of a two-and-a-half-month-old baby and another of a two-year-old girl. Both had lost their parents to Covid. In the latter case, when no one came forward to take responsibility of the child after both her parents died, the hospital informed the authorities,” Ali says. Whether Covid does or does not hit children hard in the prophesied “third wave” is yet a matter of speculation.  Meantime, the pandemic’s current, and second, surge has left many childhoods devastated. The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has received distressing reports. Says Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborty, chairperson of the WBCPCR, “There is a significant rise in the number of such cases where children have been affected — orphaned or left behind by parents when they have had to be admitted in hospital. We cannot yet confirm the number of such cases but it is much higher this year.” However, what worries Chatterjee more than the phenomenon of Covid orphans at this stage is the fate of children being left alone or in the care of neighbours while their parents seek treatment. “It is those children whose parents are in hospital who need to be taken care of. One has to understand that many people in the country stay in one room. It is impossible for one member of the family to stay in quarantine. In those cases, we have reached out and helped,” Chatterjee says. Similarly, a Bangalore-based NGO, Whitefield Rising, joined hands with specialist childcare NGO Dream India Network, Motherhood Hospitals, Rainbow Children’s Hospital and Mission Aahan Vaahan, a migrant evacuation initiative by the National Law School alumni, to open quarantine and Covid care centres exclusively for children. Zibi Jamal, who is a member of Whitefield Rising, says that three quarantine centres (for boys and girls aged 6-11, girls aged 12-18 and boys aged 12-18) as well as Covid care centres for children between six and 18 months are being operated by Dream India Network. The centres can accommodate over 160 children at a time. All of these started when reports of children being left alone at home as parents or the entire family needed to be hospitalised began to surface in early May. Jamal says, “We had issued an advisory for parents requesting them to  identify the person who would look after children in their absence.” The advisory said the parent should leave behind an information kit with essential details of the child’s needs and what may need to be done in case of an emergency. “It should have details like medication and allergies the child may have, contacts of the paediatrician or doctor, which school the child goes to, likes and dislikes and, of course, the contact numbers of relatives who can be reached out to if required,” says Jamal. Chatterjee highlights more general, though critical, issues related to children. She says that since the onset of the pandemic, children have been silent, often unnoticed, bearers of consequences. “Schools have been closed down for an indefinite period, children cannot go out to play, they cannot mingle with their friends. Children have not been in good mental health for a while now.” And then, of course, there is the issue of migrant labourers and their second dislocation in two years. “Loss of livelihood affects children adversely,” she says. Sonal Kapoor Singh, founder of Protsahan, a Delhi-based NGO, expresses concerns over the mass circulation of information of children being orphaned and that they have to be put for adoption. “We have received an Instagram message which says a two-year-old girl and two-year-old boy have lost their parents. More often than not, these messages are misleading or fake,” she says and adds, “We have informed the district child protection team and they are now looking into the matter.” But what is worrying, according to Singh, is that such messages will only activate child traffickers. “Already the pandemic has jeopardised children to the extent that some have been pushed into transactional sex, which means these children are used as barter for food and other commodities. Such cases did come up when parents lost their livelihood or when a single parent, who was the sole earner of livelihood for the family, died. Child labour, child abuse and trafficking have increased.” Singh is quick to point out that while fake news floats on social media, there is a genuine crisis with children and how they have been hammered by Covid; in the majority of cases, the truth does not surface or come to the notice of those who can help. Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of Bachpan Bachao Andolan, says they have created a helpline number that beleaguered kids or their guardians can reach out to. “Between April 29 and May 12, we received some 416 calls. Of these, 10 per cent children were those who had lost both their parents and another 15 per cent who had a single parent and were in need of support,” he says. Most of the calls came from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. “Respective state governments should take responsibility for looking after these children,” Tingal says. He adds, “No one should try to adopt a child without routing it through the Central Adoption Resource Authority. Many complain that the process in Cara is lengthy and time-taking. That is only because legal procedures are thoroughly followed. There is no risk involved — not for the child, not for the parents adopting them.” Newspaper reports say that the Childline 1098 helpline recorded 51 calls between May 1 and May 12; all reported cases where children had lost both parents to Covid. The actual number of such cases will decidedly be far higher. For one thing, Childline 1098 is only one among several helplines. For another, not all cases get reported, the majority probably do not. While organised and volunteer civil society groups have come forward to lend their support to Covid orphans, some state governments have begun to give focussed attention. The Odisha government reached out to its people to assist the administration in rehabilitating these children. This was shortly after a 45-day-old child was found sleeping by her dead mother in Ganjam district. The government opened a WhatsApp group with all village heads as they are the chairpersons of child protection committees at the panchayat level.  Additionally, the Odisha government has announced free education and financial help to these children. Delhi, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka have also taken steps for the rehabilitation of Covid orphans. A Twitter post of a 12-year-old girl and her younger sister standing by the graves of their parents probably brought home some of the poignancy of the unfolding tragedy. Help and attention will matter, it will rebuild the suddenly shattered lives of these children. But no amount of rebuilding will fill out the cracks Covid has already scored on their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
