31-05-2021||India||SC to examine interpretation of sedition law over right of press, free speech||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will examine the interpretation of sedition law, particularly in the light of media rights and free speech, as it gave protection to Telugu news channels -- TV5 and ABN Andhrajyothi -- from any coercive action in a case lodged against them under the colonial era provision. The two channels were booked by Andhra Pradesh police for alleged sedition in showing 'offensive' speeches of YSR Congress rebel MP K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said, We are of the view that provisions of 124A (sedition) and 153 (promoting enmity between classes) of the IPC require interpretation, particularly on the issue of the rights of press and free speech . It restrained the Andhra Pradesh police from taking any coercive action against the channels and their employees or staffers in connection with the FIR. The bench also sought the response of the state government within four weeks on the pleas of the channels which are charged for various offences including the harsh penal offence of sedition. Both the media houses have recently moved the top court seeking quashing of an FIR registered against it in a sedition case in Andhra Pradesh, with one house claiming the attempt is to create a chilling effect for news channels in the state so that they are wary of hosting any content which is critical of the government. Shreya Broadcasting Pvt Ltd, which owns TV5 news channel with bureaus in Hyderabad, Vishakapatnam and Vijayawada, has alleged in its petition that the state intends to silence its critiques and the media by filing a vague FIR and abusing the process of law. The FIR against the TV channel has connection with the sedition case lodged against Raju, who has already been arrested by the Andhra Pradesh police. The channels have claimed that the FIR has been lodged against it for airing programmes involving Raju who has been critical of the state government led by his own party. The channels have sought the apex court's direction to restrain the authorities in Andhra Pradesh from taking any coercive action against the management and employees of the news channel in pursuance of the case lodged against them. The Crime Investigation Department (CID), which has arrested Raju in the case, has also named two media houses and others as accused. In its plea filed in the apex court through advocate Vipin Nair, Shreya Broadcasting Pvt Ltd has said that freedom of speech of media is of great importance and the FIR clearly intends to breach the same by chilling the media houses into submission . On May 21, in a relief to the MP granted him bail in a sedition case registered in Andhra Pradesh saying that considering the medical report received from Army hospital, the possibility of his ill-treatment in custody cannot be ruled out. The FIR has been lodged for the alleged offences under sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 505 (statements conducing public mischief) read with 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. The CID had also alleged that the MP particularly targeted two communities and tried to stoke hatred against them by trying to portray that the government has been favouring the two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||SC slams Centre on vaccine decisions||The Supreme Court on Monday posed searching questions to the Centre on the Covid-19 vaccine procurement policy and need for mandatory registration on the CoWIN app for people to get vaccinated without keeping in mind the real 'digital India' situation, observing that the policy makers must have an ear to the ground. A special bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindrabhat said that since the Centre has made CoWIN registration mandatory for vaccination, how is it going to address the issue of digital divide facing the country. "You keep on saying the situation is dynamic but policy makers must have their ears on ground. You keep on saying digital India, digital India but the situation is actually different in rural areas. How will an illiterate labourer, from Jharkhand get registered in Rajasthan? Tell us how you will address this digital divide, the bench sought to know from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. It said, You must smell the coffee and see what is happening across the country. You must know the ground situation and change the policy accordingly. If we had to do it, we would have done it 15-20 days back . Mehta replied that registration is mandatory as a person needs to be traced for a second dose and as far as rural areas there are community centres where a person can get registered for vaccination. The bench questioned Mehta whether the government thinks that this process is viable and asked him to place the policy document on record. The top court was hearing a suo motu case on management of COVID situation in the country. At the outset, it asked the Centre about the vaccine procurement policy of the Centre by referring to the fact that states like Punjab and Delhi are in the process of issuing global tenders to procure foreign vaccines for COVID-19. The bench said that even Municipal Corporation like Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received bids. Is this the policy of the central government that the state or municipal corporation can procure the vaccine or the Union Government is going to procure for them like a nodal agency? We want clarity on this and rationale behind this policy, the bench said. In the meantime, the Centre said the entire eligible population would be vaccinated by the end of 2021 and moreover, the government is in talks with companies like Pfizer and if it succeeds then timeline for completing the vaccination would change, the law officer said. Earlier, the top court had constituted a 12-member National Task Force to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of Oxygen to states and UTs for saving lives of COVID patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Delhi likely to get Sputnik V in June, says Kejriwal||Delhi is likely to receive the first consignment of Sputnik V, the Russian COVID-19 vaccine, in June, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, while stressing that vaccination is the key to fight against the coronavirus. The city currently has 944 cases of mucormycosis, including 300 at the central government-run hospitals, he said. Kejriwal was present at a city school to launch a special vaccination drive for journalists and their families. "We have started this vaccination facility for journalists and their families. There was a demand from journalists to start a special vaccination facility for them. The vaccines are being administered to those in the 18-44 age group as well as those aged above 45. I urge all journalists to come in large numbers and get vaccinated. You can protect yourself from the coronavirus only through vaccination," he told reporters. The chief minister said there are 944 cases of the black fungus infection in the national capital currently. "There are 944 cases of the infection, including 300 at the Centre-run hospitals. There is a huge shortage of medicines. We received 1,000 injections on on Saturday and nothing on Sunday," he said. Kejriwal said Delhi is likely to get a portion of the Sputnik V consignment that will be imported by the firm concerned after June 20. "The production of the vaccine is likely to start in India in August," he said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V with certain conditions. Dr Reddy's Laboratories will import the vaccine in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Study estimates 1.21 million Indians have died from Covid-19 ||It was three weeks ago when journalists combing obituary pages in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat found authorities were concealing Covid-19 deaths that people started asking hard questions about the real number of Indian coronavirus fatalities. Now, epidemiologists and scientists around the world are struggling to solve the question. The latest to enter the fray is top epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee, who holds the biostatistics chair at the University of Michigan. She calculates that 1.2 million Indians had died and 495 million had been infected by the virus up to mid-May. These fatality and infection totals contained in her preprint study, meaning it still must be peer-reviewed, are vastly higher than the government’s numbers which showed a cumulative 25 million Covid cases and 270,000 deaths on May 15. “I’ve tried to be very conservative in terms of the assumptions we’ve made in the mathematical model. If anything, I should be criticised for being conservative,” says Mukherjee, who started tracking and seeking to predict the pandemic’s trajectory back in March 2020. Mukherjee says actual deaths could be far higher. “We do not capture all the Covid-related deaths,” she says, adding, “We have so many cases where people have got to the hospital but the final cause of death assigned is not Covid. If you take the direct impact, our models tell us that five times more people have died,” she told TV anchor Barkha Dutt in an interview on Mojo Story. Covid deaths of people with co-morbidities are often being excluded from official data, even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines stipulate the virus should be listed as the cause of death and co-morbidities should be classified as “other significant” contributing conditions. In rural areas, which has been swept by Covid-19, overwhelming the extremely weak health infrastructure, there is little testing so many coronavirus deaths are not being attributed to the virus. A 30-person Dainik Bhaskar reporting team earlier in May photographed over 2,000 bodies along a 1,140km stretch of the Ganges buried in shallow graves and bobbing in the water. Mukherjee’s study has looked at the two Covid-19 waves that have hit India. “We’ve broken it up into Wave 1 and Wave 2 and we distinctly see the underreporting (of deaths) is much more acute in the Wave 2 phase,” she says. The estimated 495 million coronavirus total infections would mean 36 per cent of the 1.36 billion population had had the illness till May 15. Mukherjee believes India has crossed Wave 2 peak and that the number of infections is now trending downwards nationally, although cases may be yet to peak in certain states. “The (national) peak passed two-to-three weeks ago. Four weeks ago, things were more extreme and folks are also seeing that.” She adds a warning, though, saying: “Are we out of the woods yet? I don’t think so.” Underreporting factors On the undercounting of cases, Mukherjee notes that on May 15 when the study estimated the cumulative total of infections stood at 495 million, the government was reporting a figure of 24.8 million. “That gives you an underreporting factor of about 20 for the number of cases.” Similarly, on deaths, the government reported a total of 270,000 on May 15 when the study calculates there were around 1.2 million fatalities. “Again, that gave us an (overall) underreporting factor of about four to five,” says Mukherjee. The study estimated the underreporting factor for cases during the first wave from April 1, 2020, to January 31 of this year at 11.11 and for deaths at 3.56. For the ongoing second wave, starting on February 1 and finishing on May 15 for the purpose of the study, the researchers calculated the under-reporting factor at 26.73 for infections and 5.77 for deaths. Most experts agree Internationally, most experts concur that the government’s case and fatality toll are much lower than the actual numbers. The New York Times has offered best-case and worst-case scenarios that differ sharply from the government. Its “conservative” estimate could have been 404.2 million infections and 600,000 deaths in India. Under what the newspaper calls the “more likely scenario,” there have been 539 million infections and 1.6 million deaths. Its worst-case scenario estimates 700.7 million infections and 4.2 million deaths. The Union government has blasted the newspaper’s estimates as “absolutely false” and having “no basis at all.” Similarly, The Economist says undercounting has been rampant in India and that the real caseload could be ten or even 30 times higher and the number of deaths much more too both in India and across Asia and Africa. And the Washington-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation reckons that by end-July 1.1 million Indians will have died from Covid-19. Mukherjee’s study offers much more conservative estimates than Professor Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who said in early May when crematoriums were being overrun that anywhere between 25,000 to 50,000 Indians could by dying daily from the coronavirus and that the true number of infections daily was anywhere between two to five million. To arrive at their conclusions, Mukherjee and the other researchers first estimated the underreporting factor for infections from publicly available data released by ICMR on the reported number of cases and national seroprevalence surveys. The researchers then used an epidemiological model to estimate the undetected number of infections and deaths. Mukherjee cautions that there are variations from state to state and that it may present a false picture to talk of infections peaking nationally. “The concept of a national peak makes me feel a little anxious because it gives everybody this sense of false security that the crisis period is over.” Bengal, TN among worry states She points towards a high level of infections still in states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and emerging clusters in the northeast, Goa and Lakshadweep. “This image that we are out of the woods really concerns me. No one is safe till everyone is safe,” she says. The researchers qualify their findings with several caveats, noting that they do not have a “rigorous way” to validate the extent of under-reporting of deaths and that the figures are incomplete as the second Covid-19 wave is still ongoing. They also note “considerable variation in these (infection and death) estimates across Indian states.” Seroprevalence surveys and epidemiologic models “agree on the estimated infection fatality rate for India” for the first wave but up-to-date serosurvey and excess death/mortality data are needed to validate” the second wave and the combined estimates, the researchers add. Lower fatality rate India on Sunday officially reported 2,722 Covid-19 deaths, the first time in 34 days that the number had fallen below 3,000. Total new cases were 153,663, marking the lowest daily count in 50 days. The University of Michigan figures do suggest an element of good news: India appears to have a lower infection fatality rate of around 0.25 per cent. According to the study, an analysis of infection fatality rates across the globe puts the mean figure at 0.68 per cent and the average at 0.27 per cent. If the study were to rely only on officially reported deaths, the infection fatality estimate would be 0.13 per cent for the first wave and 0.03 per cent so far for the second wave. The perceived reduction in fatality rates during the second wave could be primarily due to two reasons, the researchers say. “One is that we do not have the same length of the follow-up period and complete data on the second wave. The second could be the different age composition of the infected populations in the two waves,” they said. India’s young population The younger population reportedly got infected in larger numbers in the second wave and a fraction of the older population (aged 65+ years) also got vaccinated during the second wave, the researchers say. India has a very young population with only 6.4 per cent in the 65-plus age group compared to the US where this proportion is 16.5 per cent “so a comparison of overall infection fatality rate between India and, say, the US is not fair,” the study authors say. “Only age-specific IFRs (infection fatality rates) should be calculated and compared when more data become available,” they said. The researchers also cautioned that their hypothesis about reduced fatality rates in the second wave “cannot be verified without more granular, age-sex stratified nationwide time-series data on the case and death counts, which is currently unavailable.” If the government released its historic and excess mortality data from India it would be possible to calculate the direct effect of coronavirus on fatalities more exactly, Mukherjee said. “The UK and US have also done this calculation to assess the direct and indirect impact of Covid on mortality. And there is a way to verify this assumption if you do have the right data,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Bihar extends lockdown till June 8||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar on Monday extended the lockdown till June 08 but eased many restrictions, relieved over the decline in intensity of the COVID-19 second wave which has killed thousands and infected lakhs of people in the state. The decision was taken at a meeting of the high-powered crisis management committee, chaired by the Chief Minister, which decided to continue with the lockdown, effective till Tuesday, for another week. "In view of the corona outbreak, a decision has been taken to extend the lockdown by a week, till june 08. However, some extra concessions will be made for business activities. "People are requested to wear masks and maintain social distancing", Kumar tweeted in Hindi soon after the meeting. As per the revised guidelines, notified by the state Home department, which would come into effect from June 02, shops dealing in essential items like grocery, vegetables, dairy products, meat and fish, will be allowed to do business from 06 oclock in the morning to 2oclock in the afternoon. Earlier, these were allowed to remain open only for four hours, from 06 A.M. to 10 A.M. In addition, all other shops which had hitherto been ordered shut, will be allowed to do business on alternate days and the respective District Magistrates shall be authorized to take a call on the roster for different categories of commercial establishments. At a press conference where he spelt out the new guidelines in presence of other top officials, Additional Chief Secretary of Home department Chaitanya Prasad said "all shopkeepers shall ensure availability of sanitisers for use by themselves and the customers. "Social distancing should be enforced by drawing of white circles on the ground in which people would stand while waiting their turn". Failure to comply with these directions would invite penal action. The shopkeepers may be booked under relevant laws and debarred from running their stores, Prasad said. Shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, stadiums, clubs and swimming pools will, however remain closed. Religious places will continue to remain shut and so will be schools/colleges/coaching institutes. Restrictions on the number of people who could attend weddings and funerals remain unaltered at 20. Curbs on vehicular traffic which entail public transport vehicles running with not more than 50 per cent capacity and privately owned ones plying only after obtaining passes, also remain in place. Prasad also told journalists, "District Magistrates have been authorised to put additional restrictions in place if warranted by corona situation in their respective areas of jurisdiction. They, however, cannot bring in any relaxations on their own". The fresh guidelines also allow all government offices to remain open till 4 P.M. "with not more than 25 per cent attendance", but the same concession has not been extended to private establishments. Lockdown was first clamped on May 05 after the state was left gasping with an explosive rise in the incidence of COVID 19 which had caused its active caseload to exceed one lakh. The same has now dropped below 20,000, a point underscored in the home departments notification with an obvious sense of relief. Having remained relatively less affected by the pandemic last year, Bihar was rattled by the devastating second wave which has caused its death toll to rise by nearly 5,000 and the overall tally to increase by more than five lakhs since the beginning of April. The state has lost many of its distinguished personalities, from various walks of life, to the latest wave of the contagion which has wrought havoc across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Twitter has to comply with new IT rules for digital media, says HC||Twitter has to comply with the new Information Technology Rules for digital media if they have not been stayed, the Delhi High Court said on Monday. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Centre and social media platform Twitter seeking their stand on a plea by a lawyer, Amit Acharya, claiming non-compliance of the rules by it. While Twitter claimed before the court that it has complied with the rules and appointed a resident grievance officer, the central government disputed the claim. "They have to follow it (rules), if it has not been stayed," the court said. In his plea, filed through advocate Akash Vajpai and Manish Kumar, Acharya said that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Central Vista essential project, work to continue, rules HC||Describing the Central Vista project as "vital and essential", the Delhi High Court on Monday allowed construction work on the project to continue and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioners for their "motivated" plea. The court said the legality of the project was already upheld by the Supreme Court. It added that even the Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed it to continue, workers were already present at the site and, therefore, "we see no reason to stop the work". A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh dismissed the plea seeking to halt the project during the coronavirus pandemic, saying the petition was "motivated" and "not a genuine PIL". It imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioners. The court said under the contract awarded to the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, work had to be completed by November 2021 and, therefore, it should to be allowed to continue. The plea for halting the work was moved by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker. The two had contended in their PIL that the project was not an essential activity and can be put on hold for time being. The project entails construction activities on Rajpath and the surrounding lawns from the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhawan, according to the petition, filed through advocates Gautam Khazanchi and Pradyuman Kaistha. The project envisages building a new Parliament House, a new residential complex to house offices and the prime minister and the vice president. It will also have new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate various ministries 'offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Govt to take decision within two days on class 12 board exams||The government will take a final decision within the next two days on whether to conduct class 12 board exams amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court was informed on Monday. Attorney General K K Venugopal told this to a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari which was hearing a plea seeking directions to cancel the class 12 exams of the CBSE and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) in view of the current situation. "No issue. You take the decision. You are entitled to it. If you are departing from the policy of last year, then you must give tangible reasons for it," the bench told Venugopal. The apex court on June 26, 2020 had approved the schemes of the CBSE and CISCE for cancellations of remaining board examinations scheduled from July 1 to 15 last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic and also approved their formula for assessment of examinees. At the outset, the attorney general told the bench, "The government will take a final decision within the next two days. We are hoping that your lordships will give us time till Thursday (June 3) so that we can come back with the final decision." The bench has posted the matter for hearing on June 3. "List on Thursday as requested by the attorney general as the competent authority is examining all the aspects of the matter and is likely to take in-principle decision which will be placed before the court," the bench said. The plea, filed by petitioner Mamta Sharma, has also sought directions to devise an "objective methodology" to declare the result of class 12 within a specific time frame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||India reports lowest daily Covid cases in 50 days||India reported the lowest daily new coronavirus infections in 50 days with 1,52,734 cases, taking India's total tally to 2,80,47,534, while the active caseload further declined to 20,26,092, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,29,100 with 3,128 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries continued to outnumber the daily new cases for the 18th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,56,92,342, with 2,38,022 patients having recovered in a span of 24 hours, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent, the data stated. Also, 16,83,135 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far in the country to 34,48,66,883, while the daily positivity was recorded at 9.07 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for seven consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate has declined to 9.04 per cent. The active cases have further reduced to 20,26,092, comprising 7.22 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 91.60 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 21.31 crore. A total of 21,31,54,129 doses have been administered through 30,28,295 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Monday. The 3,128 new fatalities include 814 from Maharashtra, 493 from Tamil Nadu, 381 from Karnataka, 186 from Kerala, 142 from West Bengal, 138 from Uttar Pradesh and 127 from Punjab. A total of 3,29,100 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 94,844 from Maharashtra, 28,679 from Karnataka, 24,151 from Delhi, 23,754 from Tamil Nadu, 20,346 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,410 from West Bengal, 14,432 from Punjab and 13,016 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Stan Swamy tests positive for Covid||Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has tested positive for coronavirus. Swamy, 84, who is suffering from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments, was shifted from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital here on May 28, following the Bombay High Court's orders. Swamy was tested at the private hospital and his result came out positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, his lawyer Mihir Desai said. Desai alleged that this was a result of "criminal negligence" on part of the Taloja prison authorities, who failed to provide adequate care to the inmates and conduct their RT-PCR tests timely. On May 28, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar directed the state prison authorities to ensure Swamy was shifted from the Taloja prison to the hospital, after Desai moved the bench seeking an urgent hearing. Swamy had been in the Taloja prison hospital since his arrest in the case in October 2020. Desai had earlier moved a vacation bench led by Justice SJ Kathawala, seeking medical aid and bail for Swamy on health grounds. At that time, the bench said while the issue of medical bail would be decided later, Swamy could be shifted to the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai for treatment. Swamy, who was then present before the court via video-conferencing, refused to get admitted to the J J Hospital, saying he had been there twice earlier already but found no relief. He had said that he would rather die in prison than go to the J J Hospital. Swamy had told the HC that his mental and physical health declined steadily while at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC for interim bail. Advocate Desai had told the bench that considering his ill health and co-morbidities, Swamy was at the risk of contracting the coronavirus infection. Swamy had said he was also worried about his co- inmates at the hospital. On both the hearings, the NIA's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, and the state's counsel, Y P Yagnik, objected to advocate Desai's request. They had said the state could not be expected to bear the cost of Swamy's treatment at the private hospital and suggested he may be shifted to the J J Hospital. The bench led by Justice Shinde, however, permitted Swamy to be shifted to the Holy Family Hospital after Desai said the cost of treatment would be borne by Swamy and his aides. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have also claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Mann ki baat: PM underscores India's 'victory resolve',  sidesteps govt mishandling of Covid-19||Once bitten, twice shy? Almost, not entirely. Prime Minister Narendra Modi found it hard to resist the charms of the V-word on Sunday while seeking to reassure the nation on Covid-19 but this time he chose to focus on the collective rather than himself. The world has changed upside down for India since January 28, when Modi declared victory against the virus. The country “has saved humanity from a big disaster by containing corona effectively”, the Prime Minister had told the World Economic Forum four months ago. On Sunday, during his Mann ki Baat audio address, Modi underscored “India’s victory resolve (vijay sankalp)” and said “her collective strength and our spirit of service always rescued the country from the midst of every storm”. But he did not speak on the miseries brought on by his government’s mishandling of the situation. The monthly address, which coincided with Modi’s second government’s second anniversary, oozed the “positivity” that the saffron ecosystem has been trying to promote to gloss over the mismanagement of the surging epidemic. Modi claimed big achievements in the last seven years before imparting the spin that they were accomplishments “of the country, of the countrymen”. He seemed to be trying to milk “national pride” and portray the battle against the pandemic as a collective one to sidestep responsibility for the current mess. Modi had conversations with an oxygen tanker driver, a woman loco pilot engaged in transporting oxygen, a group captain of the air force and a laboratory technician, asking them how they felt serving the people and the country. When oxygen tanker driver Dinesh Babulnath Upadhyay, who hails from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, recounted how he was greeted at hospitals with the “V” sign, Modi interjected: “Achchha, victory ka V batate hain (Okay, so they signal V for victory)!” Dinesh replied: “Yes, Sir, they signal a V, some give a thumbs-up. We feel very satisfied….” Modi: “All your fatigue must be vanishing!” Dinesh: “Yes… yes, Sir.” Modi: “So, do you come home and tell your children about that?” Dinesh: “No, Sir. My children live in the village. I am here at Inox Air Products as a driver. I go home after 8-9 months.” After the conversation, Modi referred to how the Indian Railways are ferrying oxygen across the country. The Prime Minister was silent on the shortages of oxygen, vaccines, medicines and hospital beds, the harrowing scenes of people waiting in long queues for oxygen, patients falling back on voluntary organisations, getting help out in the open and in vehicles. During the Mann ki Baat on Sunday, Modi told train driver Shirisha Gajni, part of an all-women “Oxygen Express” team: “Many women like you have come forward to give strength to the country to fight (the) corona(virus). You too are a big example of woman power. But the country would like to know where you get this motivation from.” “Sir, for me my motivation are my father-mother, Sir,” she replied, saying her parents were very encouraging. Modi asked about her experience ferrying oxygen, saying the assignment was “very delicate”. “I felt happy in doing this work,” Shirisha replied, adding that she observed all the safety protocols and thanking the railways. “Friends, just now we heard Shirishaji. Her experience inspires us, makes us emotional too,” Modi said after the conversation. Modi later marked his government’s anniversary by recalling the “mutual journey of seven years”, counting from 2014. “Together, we have experienced many moments of national pride in these years,” he said. Modi seemed to suggest that India was “now” resisting pressure from other countries — implying that previous governments may have yielded to such pressure — but did not cite specifics. “When we observe that now India moves ahead not with the thought and pressure of other countries but with her own conviction, then we feel proud,” he said. “When we witness that now India gives a fitting reply to those who conspire against us, then our confidence soars.” Modi referred to his government’s flagship programmes and claimed achievements that the country, he said, had not witnessed in the previous years. He said the “country had been put to test” by the Covid epidemic but added that it was a global crisis that had not spared others, again appearing to be seeking to escape accountability for the deaths and misery afflicting the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre promises 120 million doses of vaccines during June||Nearly 120 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be available during June, India’s health ministry said on Sunday, a count that would allow the country the opportunity to double its pace of inoculation over that achieved during May. The health ministry said the Centre would supply 60,960,000 doses to the states for the priority population groups – healthcare workers, frontline workers and people 45 years or older – and 58,610,000 doses will be available for procurement by states and private hospitals. The ministry said it had provided “advance visibility” of the doses available so that states and private hospitals can plan their own procurement and administration schedules. Under the current vaccination policy, states and private hospitals have the flexibility to vaccinate all adults 18 years or older. India would need to administer an average of 4 million doses a day to use up the nearly 120 million doses available in June, a pace of inoculation twice that between May 1 and May 30 when 58 million doses were administered. But vaccination campaign data from May suggests that all the available doses might not actually get administered to aspiring recipients. In May, the Centre had made available over 40.3 million vaccine doses to the states and over 39 million were available for “direct procurement” by states and private hospitals, implying that a total of over 79 million doses were available for the nationwide campaign. But between May 1 and May 30, the campaign administered only around 58 million doses from the total of 79 million doses available. A query sent by The Telegraph to the health ministry asking about the unadministered 21 million doses has not evoked a response. Health experts tracking the vaccination campaign say the difference between available doses and the actual doses administered could be explained if they were either not procured, or not administered, or were still in supply channels, or were wasted. The 39 million doses available for direct procurement by the states and private hospitals during May were expected to be used primarily to inoculate people 18 years or older as the other 40 million doses from the Centre were meant for people 45 years or older. “Given the huge demand for vaccines among the 18 to 45 years age group, it is unclear why all the available 39 million doses weren’t used up,” said R. Ramakumar, economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Wasted doses and unused inventories with the states or private hospitals are, Ramakumar said, unlikely to explain such a large difference between the available and administered doses. The Centre had in an affidavit earlier this month told the Supreme Court that the Serum Institute of India had ramped up Covishield’s production to 65 million doses per month and Bharat Biotech had increased production of Covaxin to 20 million doses per month. “If 79 million doses were available in May, we should have administered on average over 2.5 million doses a day, but the actual achieved is a little over 1.9 million doses daily,” Ramakumar said. “This raises questions – did the states and private hospitals really have access to 39 million doses in May that they either did not procure or did not use up? If not, what is our actual production?” The vaccination campaign has so far administered the required two doses for full immunisation to nearly 44.8 million people -- 6.8 million healthcare workers, 8.6 million frontline workers, 10.6 million people between 45 and 60 years and 18.8 million people 60 years or older -- or about 5 per cent of the estimated 900-odd million eligible people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Supreme Court rules in favour of anticipatory bail ||The Supreme Court has ruled that anticipatory bail is an effective medium to protect the fundamental right to life and liberty and the relief should be considered liberally by courts as long as the trial is not concluded. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, however, said such discretionary power cannot be exercised in an untrammelled manner and courts must take into consideration the concerns of the investigating agency, complainant and the society at large and strike a balance with the concerns and interests of the applicant. “The genesis of this jurisdiction lies in Article 21 of the Constitution, as an effective medium to protect the life and liberty of an individual. The provision therefore needs to be read liberally, and considering its beneficial nature, the courts must not read in limitations or restrictions that the legislature had not explicitly provided for. Any ambiguity in the language must be resolved in favour of the applicant seeking relief,” the bench, also having Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said. The Chief Justice of India, who authored the judgment, referred to a five-judge bench ruling in the 1980 Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia vs State of Punjab case to hold that CrPC Section 438 (anticipatory bail) is a procedural provision that concerns the “personal liberty of the individual, who is entitled to the benefit of the presumption of innocence since he is not, on the date of his application for anticipatory bail, convicted of the offence”. The top court said an overgenerous infusion of constraints and conditions by courts which are not part of Section 438 can make its provisions constitutionally vulnerable since the right to personal freedom cannot be made to depend on compliance with unreasonable restrictions. “The beneficent provision contained in Section 438 must be saved, not jettisoned…”CJI Ramana said while citing the 1980 ruling. The court on Friday passed the judgment while setting aside the orders passed by Allahabad High Court granting 90 days’ time to two persons to surrender in separate cases of dowry death and land grabbing. The high court granted the breather but refused anticipatory bail, aggrieved by which the complainants had approached the Supreme Court. Allowing the appeals, the apex court said CrPC Section 482, which empowers the high courts to quash any criminal case, reflected the reality that no law or rule could possibly account for the complexities of life and the infinite range of circumstances that may arise in the future. “However, such discretionary power cannot be exercised in an untrammelled manner. The court must take into account the statutory scheme under Section 438, CrPC… and balance the concerns of the investigating agency, complainant and the society at large with the concerns/interest of the applicant,” the Supreme Court said. “Therefore, such an order must necessarily be narrowly tailored to protect the interests of the applicant while taking into consideration the concerns of the investigating authority. Such an order must be a reasoned one,” Justice Ramana said. “The impugned orders (of Allahabad High Court) therefore do not withstand legal scrutiny. The resultant effect of the high court’s orders is that neither are the respondents found entitled to pre-arrest bail, nor can they be arrested for a long duration,” the apex court said. “During the said duration they can roam freely without being apprehensive of coercive action. We are thus of the view that the high court committed a grave error in passing such protection to the respondents accused. Such a direction by the high court exceeds its judicial discretion and amounts to judicial largesse, which the courts do not possess,” CJI Ramana remarked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Twenty central universities left without a regular vice-chancellor||Twenty of the country’s 45 central universities are without a regular vice-chancellor, which has left them unable to take important academic decisions, recruit permanent teachers or implement key features of the National Education Policy. Two education ministry officials said that selection committees had conducted interviews and submitted the names of shortlisted candidates for a dozen vice-chancellors’ posts at least four months ago. For the remaining eight central universities, the process of selection was under way or yet to start. They blamed the delays on the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), saying it was sitting over the files of the shortlisted candidates. “This government is suffering from a policy paralysis. They are so driven by ideology that they do not bother about higher education institutions,” a Delhi University (DU) professor who asked not to be named said. A senior education ministry official said that under the law, the PMO has no role in the appointment of VCs. “The ministry has to send the file (of shortlisted candidates) to the President, who is the Visitor of the central universities and makes the final selection,” he said. “It normally takes a week to issue the appointment letter after the selection committee hands in the names.” “However,” he added, “these days the files are sent to the PMO unofficially. The files are delayed there.” The PMO is expected to vet the shortlist and send it back to the education ministry while indicating its choice. The ministry then sends the file to the President while verbally communicating the government’s choice. Among the 20 central universities without regular VCs are leading institutions such as Banaras Hindu University, Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University. The others are: North-Eastern Hill University (Shillong), Manipur University, Assam University (Silchar), Guru Ghasidas University (Chhattisgarh), Sagar University (Madhya Pradesh), two Sanskrit universities in Delhi, two central universities each in Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir, and one central university each in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland. Selection panels had held interviews last August to shortlist VCs for the Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and the Central Sanskrit University in Delhi. For over nine months since then, the PMO has sat over the files, officials said. The DU professor who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that in most of these 20 universities, the outgoing VCs had received extensions. In the rest, the senior-most professor has been appointed acting VC. “The VCs on extension and the acting VCs are hesitant to decide key issues such as the implementation of the NEP, for instance, starting inter-disciplinary courses and four-year undergraduate programmes, or discontinuing the MPhil courses,” the DU professor said. “Nor are they ready to plan academic activities during the pandemic or decide on starting Covid care centres on campuses, or on exempting students from paying fees for facilities that remain unused since the institutions are closed.” Interim VCs are not allowed to recruit any permanent teachers or other employees, either. RSS student arm ABVP last week expressed concern at the situation and demanded the appointment of VCs at the earliest. The IITs at Bhubaneswar, Patna, Indore and Mandi too have been without regular directors for over a year. A selection panel headed by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had interviewed candidates for IIT Bhubaneswar and IIT Patna last July but the PMO has not returned the files. An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the delay in appointments has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Congress targets Modi govt's anniversary celebrations||The Congress on Sunday said Narendra Modi’s seven-year-old rule had “inflicted countless wounds” on the nation and “given immeasurable pain” to its people, targeting the government’s already low-key celebrations of its anniversary amid the alarm and despondency caused by a rampaging pandemic. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala painted a grim picture, arguing a callous and incompetent government had ruined the economy, damaged institutions, poisoned the social fabric and mishandled the pandemic. “Modi has inflicted countless wounds, given immeasurable pain. The time has come to ask questions, to seek accountability,” he said. “The economy has been wrecked. The GDP is growing at minus 8 per cent. Unemployment is peaking. Over 12 crore people have lost their jobs in the last one year,” he added. “Lakhs of farmers are sitting in protest outside Delhi because of unwanted black laws. The Chinese intrusion is unresolved. The pain and miseries during the lockdown suffered by millions are known to all. People died of oxygen shortage in the second wave. Funeral pyres burnt ceaselessly and thousands of bodies were thrown into rivers and buried in the sand.” Showing a short film to provide visual depiction of the devastation, Surjewala said: “As if these were not enough, what India lost is the majesty of our democracy, autonomy of institutions, global respect, self-reliance and prime ministerial sensitivity.” He continued: “We lost the tradition and culture of sharing pain, of providing the healing touch, the norm of keeping words. We couldn’t provide dignity to the dead, couldn’t perform the last rites. What we got are lies, hate, deception, divisive politics, harmful GST…. Desh bhugat raha hai (The country is suffering).” Surjewala stressed that some of the government’s most spectacular failures owed not to Covid alone. “Our per capita income is now less than Bangladesh’s. The unemployment rate is at an all-time high at 11.3 per cent. Only in April 2021, 74 lakh jobs were lost,” he said. “Over 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line in the last seven years. Three crore people fell off the middle class category. Edible oil is selling at Rs 200 per litre and petrol at Rs 100 per litre; LPG for Rs 800-plus.” While the sheer force of circumstances has put the BJP on the mat, the anniversary also represents the moment of truth for both the ruling establishment and the Opposition. While Modi’s second term has been tumultuous, marked by a slowing economy, massive anti-CAA-NRC protests, the clampdown on Kashmir and Covid, questions rained on the Congress on Sunday for the disarray in the Opposition camp. The Congress has almost been rudderless since the 2019 election debacle, with a retired Sonia Gandhi reluctantly stepping in as a ceremonial head, and the Opposition has been unable to collectively mount a challenge to a faltering government. The BJP has lost its two oldest and most valuable allies over the past two years — the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal — and its governments in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. The two mass movements against the new citizenship regime and farm laws have demolished Modi’s aura of invincibility. Yet the Opposition has remained somnolent, lending credence to the theory of a lack of alternative. Surjewala artfully sidestepped queries on Opposition ineffectuality and the Congress’s role in the disappointing situation by attacking the Modi government. However, the friendly parties are unmistakably growing uneasy. Congress leaders too believe that the speculation about Opposition leadership that has started after Mamata Banerjee’s astonishing victory in Bengal owes primarily to the confusion in their party. Somewhat unusually, Surjewala chose to highlight the Congress’s willingness to play junior partner in states such as Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu — rather than stress the inevitability of its leadership role — to reiterate the party’s commitment to coalitions. Among the next big state elections is the one early next year in Uttar Pradesh, where the Congress will have to decide whether to strike an alliance with the Samajwadi Party or go it alone. The contours of Opposition unity will become clear only after that critical contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||UP meat trader's kin accuses cops of pushing him to death||The family of a meat seller in Uttar Pradesh, Muhammad Aquil, has alleged that he died after police hit him on the head with a rifle butt and threw him off the roof of his house during a raid in the dead of night. The police in Bulandshahr denied the allegation and said Aquil, 43, had injured himself while trying to flee during a raid by jumping off the roof of his one-storey house. The police said Aquil had 12 cases of cow slaughter, which is banned in Uttar Pradesh, against him. Aquil’s family have denied the allegation of cow slaughter and said he used to trade in goat meat. In a video that has been widely shared on social media, Aquil’s two minor daughters are seen saying that the police barged into their house at Khabil Gyan around 1am on May 23. “The police hit my father with the butt of a rifle and threw him off the terrace,” one of the girls says in the video. The other girl says: “We were sleeping on the terrace. The police barged into the house and attacked my father around 1am. They hit him on the head with a rifle butt and pushed him off the terrace. His skull cracked.” “Some policemen stood at the main gate while some others entered the house by opening an under-construction gate,” she added. Aquil’s family said he died at a hospital in Delhi on May 27 and was buried at Khurja in Bulandshahr the next day. Suresh Kumar Singh, the circle officer (CO) of Khurja, said: “Aquil’s death is a mystery for us. We came to know about it on May 28 when some people staged a dharna at the Munda Khera crossing, alleging that the police had thrown him off his terrace.” “We conducted a preliminary inquiry the same day and reached the conclusion that Aquil, who was wanted in 12 cases of cow slaughter, had jumped off his terrace to evade arrest when a police team reached his gate,” Singh said. The officer said Aquil had escaped in similar fashion many times earlier. Singh said that on May 23, the police team had left after assuming that Aquil had made a getaway through the narrow lanes after jumping off from the side of the roof that is opposite the direction from which the cops came. “Our investigation has revealed that he suffered injuries when he fell on the road. His family members secretly admitted him to a local hospital under another name — Mohammad Shahid. From there, he was shifted to Aligarh and then to Delhi. He died at the Delhi hospital on May 27. While his family members brought the body back and were going to bury him the next day, some anti-social elements staged a dharna on May 28 against the police,” said Singh, the CO. Santosh Kumar, senior superintendent of police of Bulandshahr, said: “Since some people of the area have staged a dharna and claimed that policemen had pushed him off the rooftop, I have asked Harendra Singh, the superintendent of police (rural), to conduct a probe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Two medicine shop owners arrested on charge of selling fake black fungus in Allahabad||Two medicine shop owners in Allahabad have been arrested on the charge of selling fake medicines for black fungus, a day after a medical representative and a property dealer were picked up in Kanpur as part of the nexus, with a BJP minister getting sucked into the controversy. The shop owners — Pankaj Agrawal and Madhuram Bajpai — were arrested on Sunday for allegedly selling fake Limposoma Amphotericin B injections, used to treat black fungus or mucormycosis that is afflicting an increasing number of Covid-19 patients, after police were tipped off about them by property dealer Prakash Mishra and his friend, medical representative Gyanesh Sharma, who were nabbed on Saturday. The police said Agrawal had posted on his Facebook page a picture with Nand Gopal Nandi, Uttar Pradesh’s minister for civil aviation and political pension. Nandi has denied any association with Agrawal. Mishra identifies himself as a BJP worker on social media, but the party has denied the claim. “Pankaj Agrawal and Madhuram Bajpai, owners of medical stores in Naini and Himatganj areas of Allahabad, have said a third shopkeeper in Lucknow is also involved in the crime. They had been supplying the fake medicines to hospitals and doctors in Varanasi, Kanpur, Allahabad and Kaushambi. Agrawal has put up a picture of himself with Nand Gopal Nandi, the minister for civil aviation and political pension, on Facebook,” said a police officer who didn’t want to be identified. Nandi told reporters that he didn’t know Agrawal. “People get their pictures clicked with leaders. It doesn’t mean that I know them personally,” said Nandi, the BJP MLA of Allahabad South. Agrawal is seen in the picture standing beside Nandi, who is sitting in what appears to be his office. Agrawal has also posted a picture of himself with Mulayam Singh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party patriarch and former chief minister. However, it is a selfie that Agrawal had taken in a flight. Acting on the complaint of a doctor of Allahabad’s Motilal Nehru Medical College, a police team had arrested Mishra, the property dealer, and Sharma, the medical representative, from Gwaltoli area of Kanpur on Saturday. Tripurari Pandey, a police inspector of Kanpur, said: “We have seized 68 containers of fake Limposoma Amphotericin B and Rs 1.8 lakh in cash from Mishra and Sharma.” Asked about Mishra’s claim on Facebook that he is a BJP worker, a party spokesperson in Lucknow said: “Criminals associate themselves with the ruling party to deceive people. The police are freely doing their job.” According to a police source, the doctor had stated in his complaint that he had bought 30 vials of Limposoma Amphotericin B for Rs 2 lakh from Mishra. “A relative of the doctor in Allahabad had been suffering from mucormycosis and was admitted to Sir Sundarlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University. He needed the injections for the patient. The doctor had contacted Mishra, who had posted on Facebook that he was a supplier of Limposoma Amphotericin B. Mishra had called the doctor to Kanpur and given him the injections. Later, the patient died even after the injections were administered. A lab test revealed that the medicines were fake,” the police source said on condition of anonymity. He said Sharma had told the police that Agrawal had sent him to Lucknow where the owner of a medicine store had given him the Limposoma Amphotericin B vials for Rs 97,000. Sharma and Bajpai, the other accused medicine shop owner in Allahabad, used to live in the same house in Kanpur. Ashutosh Mishra, the superintendent of police (crime) of Allahabad, said: “We have sealed the two medical stores in the district and their documents are being checked. We are in the process of recording the statements of the accused.” “We haven’t yet recovered the fake injections from Agrawal and Bajpai, but they have admitted that they were part of the racket,” the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Odisha govt to include disaster and pandemic management in high school and college curriculum||The Odisha government has decided to include disaster and pandemic management in high school and college curriculum. A resolution in this regard was passed at the meeting of the council of ministers, chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday. The state will also educate its employees about the fundamental nature of different kinds of disasters and pandemic management. “Knowledge about disaster and pandemic management will also be mandatory for government jobs. The role of our elected representatives changes significantly during the time of distress. From ward members to chief minister everyone will be trained on disaster and pandemic management,” Naveen said in the meeting. Every student, elected representative, government official and Mission Shakti members will be trained in disaster and pandemic preparedness. “Odisha will stand out in saving peoples lives. It flows from our realisation that community preparedness is the key to disaster management,” he said. He said:  “The world has changed its perception about Odisha’s ability to deal with disasters in the course of the last two decades. There was a time when we evoked pity. Today, the Odisha model of disaster management draws global admiration.” He said Covid-19 has created a new reality for the people and Odisha model of disaster management is now recognised the world over for its efficiency and humane approach. “Unlike a cyclone that comes and goes, the pandemic has brought in two new dimensions of human crisis. One is the inability to put a timeline as to when the crisis will move on. The second is the way the crisis may assume new and unexpected forms.  The time has come for us to create a massive knowledge infrastructure in the state that will make everyone a warrior”. Chief minister also announced that the state will train members of Mission Shakti groups, Vana Surakya Samitis, and other community based organisations and equip them with the knowledge required to manage disasters and pandemics. “Basically the objective is to have a Yodha in every home of Odisha,” Naveen said. The council of ministers has resolved to undertake systematic and detailed training programme to equip the citizens with adequate knowledge and skills in disaster and pandemic management and make Odisha a leading state in disaster preparedness - ready to tackle any disaster whether its biological or climatic. “A task force will be formed to carry forward this mission of building a disaster and pandemic resilient Odisha. This will be our biggest preparation for future emergencies,” Naveen said. On Sunday, chief minister’s office tweeted how Odisha’s disaster management has received a global acknowledgement from United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR). “Odisha’s disaster management model has received global acclaim again as @UNDRRChief Mami Mizutori lauded CM@Naveen_Odisha’s leadership towards creating a world-class mechanism & framework to mitigate natural disasters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha extends lockdown for another 16-days till June 17||The Odisha government on Sunday extended the lockdown across the state for another 16-days till June 17 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The ongoing lockdown that started from May 5 has been extended for the second time. It was scheduled to end at 5am on June 1. The weekend shutdown will remain in force on Saturday and Sunday. The state has so far reported 7,56,684 Covid cases and 2,719 deaths. Currently, the state has 95,266 active cases of Covid-19. Official sources said the state government extended the lockdown to avoid a rush in the market during the upcoming Raja festival, one of the most important festivals of the state. Sabitri, another big festival, is also coming up. While the three-day Raja festival begins on June 14, the Sabitri festival falls on June 10. Meanwhile, the state government has claimed that the Covid-19 cases have started declining because of the lockdown. “During the 25 days of lock down, we got good results. The positivity rate has come down from 25 per cent to 15 per cent. We want to bring it down to 10 per cent. For this reason, lockdown is needed,” said chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra. Mohapatra said: “The state is facing twin challenges — the Covid pandemic and restoration work in the cyclone hit areas. Thousands of government employees are deployed in these areas for the restoration work. There is still a threat of Covid spread in these areas. The Covid cases are still high in the coastal belts including Khurda, Cuttack, Angul and other districts. Taking all these into consideration, we don’t want any laxity and decided to go for the extension of lockdown.” Grocery and food shops in the state will remain open from 7am to 11am during the lockdown. But the grocery and food shops will remain open from 7am to 1pm in three districts — Nuapada, Sundergarh and Gajapati — as the number of corona cases have come down below 10 per cent. “Cases reached the peak on May 22 with detection of a record 12,852 positive cases. Now the cases are showing a downward trend.,” said P.K. Mohapatra, additional chief secretary in charge of health and family welfare department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
