12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t resume trains in Punjab with conditions, says railways||The impasse between the Centre and Punjab over resumption of train services continues with the railway ministry claiming that the state government has agreed to a ‘conditional resumption’ wherein only good trains will be allowed. The ministry said it will not resume any trains until the state government gives complete assurance of no interference along the tracks.”Even though the tracks have been cleared more or less we have been told some protestors are still loitering around. This is very unsafe and we can’t run trains till complete assurance is given of no interference. There are about 20 such locations where we have been informed of presence of some protestors...It would lead to unacceptable implications,” a senior official said. Trains have been suspended in the state for over a month from September 25 due to the agitation over farm bills, cleared by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament. Punjab is also facing critical shortage of coal stock across power plants leading to massive power cuts due to the prolonged suspension of goods trains by the railways. “Railways is ready to immediately resume both passenger and goods trains at the same time . However, assurance of safety of its operations and track clearance is being sought for resumption of services for both passenger and goods trains . It was being indicated that tracks were open for goods train only and not for passenger trains,” a railway ministry spokesperson said. Cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, however, said the railways were just making flimsy excuses to continue with the suspension of rail services to Punjab. “All train tracks in the state are clear, but they are still not resuming the trains because the Modi government wants to punish the farmers and the state government for opposition the farm laws. The farmers are exercising their democratic right by holding peaceful protests. The state government has repeatedly given assurance of security to railways, but they have not budged,” said Randhawa who is a part of the three-member panel of cabinet ministers holding talks with the protesting farmers. A joint team of state government officials and the director general of the Railway Protection Force was formed to review the situation in the state. Amid tussle between the Centre and the Punjab state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Indian Railways has claimed losses of nearly Rs 1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted till last week. According to railways’ data, nearly 70 trains are affected per day, in total 1,373 passenger trains have had to be cancelled and diverted leading to losses of Rs 45 crore due to cancellation of the passenger trains. Punjab farmers, meanwhile, have been invited to Delhi on November 13 to meet senior ministers in a bid to end the ongoing impasse between them and the railways, and restore train services in the state. The meeting is expected to take place between a delegation of the protesting farmers and defence minister Rajnath Singh, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/won-t-resume-trains-in-punjab-with-conditions-says-railways/story-6fs3eDzleE15Rq5GZhMqxL.html
12-11-2020||Business||Govt readies database to ease farm economy||The Union government is in the process of developing one of the largest publicly funded digital databases — an offshoot of a set of laws passed recently to open up agricultural markets in the country — to make over 120 million Indian farmers visible online to agribusinesses, such as insurance firms, credit companies, seed sellers, logistics operators, and supermarkets. The project to digitise the farm economy, called Agristack, will create a digital profile of cultivators, their farm holdings, climatic conditions in the area, what they grow, and average output, details which will be mapped to the 12-digit Aadhaar biometric ID, which almost every Indian possesses, said an agriculture ministry official who asked not to be named.He added that these data points will go on to create a far more intricate framework that will offer big opportunities to farmers and agribusinesses alike. According to Census 2011, India had 118.9 million cultivators. Nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-based income, and there are slightly over 140 million agricultural land holdings in the country. The farmers’ database will be available to the private sector along with a “monetisation model” being worked on, the official cited above said. The health ministry’s National Health Stack, which is already in place and provides a digital ID to everyone, is a similar digital framework usable across public and private sectors to boost health care delivery and investment. The project will link farmers and farm collectives to their land parcels with cadastral details, such as farm size, satellite imagery, land titles, credit history, produce grown, quality of output, and machinery used, among others. “There will be data standardisation that will on-board information from satellite imagery, Internet-of-Things devices, and data already available in private and public domains,” the official said. Agristack is meant to bring a host of services directly to a farmer’s doorstep, while arming agribusinesses with marketable information. For instance, credit companies may find it easier to lend to farmers with a reliable credit history, and insurers may customise products according to a farm’s climatic zone. It may also enable financial firms to precisely estimate how much loan a farmer needs, based on cost of cultivation. A 2019 Reserve Bank of India report warned that Indian farmers, on average, were taking on more farm loans than they actually needed for cultivation, possibly to meet non-farm expenses, pushing them into debt traps. The idea of the database is also to link blossoming food supermarkets with farmers directly, let export firms pinpoint locations that best grow the products they need, and for granular data to allow machinery firms, which make everything from tractors to harvesters, to market farm-appropriate equipment. Though the government already runs one version of electronic trading, called e-nam, a majority of farmers still transact with buyers through intermediaries. The government last month passed three laws to allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers in some states, particularly Punjab, are protesting these changes, fearing the reforms could erode their bargaining power and weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers growers an assured price. The government has given assurances that there are no plans to scrap its MSP policy, but the farm groups are asking for this to be written in the law. Three Congress-ruled states — Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — have passed laws in their respective Assemblies to override these central laws. That move, however, may yet be open to legal interpretation.Some farm activists say such a database raises questions about the extent to which a government should have access to personal information. “There are of course issues of data integrity and privacy. Farmers are the most vulnerable link in any interface with the farm economy by any kind of business, and we have to be conscious of this in this new initiative also,” said Kavitha Kuruganthi of the Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), a group opposing the farm reforms.The official, however, contended that the recent reforms were being backed by robust policy initiatives to boost investment, one which is the Agristack database. According to official data, capital investment in the farm sector has been stagnant with less than 2% compound annual growth rate over the past five years. The share of private investment fell to nearly 83% in FY17 against 88% in FY14. A digital farm economy could give the sector a shot in the arm. “A farmers’ database is most overdue and welcome. The private sector cannot do this because there are costs that are not recoverable,” said Pravesh Sharma, the founder Kamatan Farm Tech Pvt Ltd. Sharma said the database would help to “deepen institutional capital, credit reach and pave the way for smart agricultural solutions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/govt-readies-database-to-ease-farm-economy/story-fzwpKEQos0HHVTatWMuUgM.html
