13-11-2020||India||To break ice, Union ministers hold key talks with farmers protesting central laws||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal have begun talks with a delegation of representatives of farmers from Punjab, who are protesting a set of laws passed recently to liberalise the farm sector, at the national capital’s Vigyan Bhawan on Friday. At least 40 leaders of various farmers’ bodies, including constituents of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella platform spearheading the protests, are participating in the talks, the first meeting that agitating farmers are holding with Cabinet ministers. This is the second attempt by the government to negotiate with the farmers and break an impasse following a cultivators’ agitation in some states, particularly Punjab, against the Centre’s move to open up agricultural markets in the country. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal had met a farmers’ delegation on October 14, after inviting them for talks, to convince them to end their protest, but the meeting had ended in a deadlock. Also Read: Protests against farm laws: Haryana farmers to march to Delhi on November 18The ongoing talks appear to be an attempt by the government to be accommodative of a pre-condition set by farm leaders during their meeting with the agriculture secretary on October 14 that any talks must happen in the presence of Union ministers and not just at the bureaucratic level. Farmers in Punjab have launched protests, blockading rail tracks and road transport, since the government enacted three farm-sector laws in September, creating a key political challenge for the Narendra Modi government.The three laws, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce by easing restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers protesting these changes say the reforms could make them vulnerable to exploitation, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. The Modi government has said the reforms were unrelated to the MSP system, which, it assured, would continue to exist. Farmers, however, aren’t convinced. “The talks are on and they are on complex issues. We will be in a position to comment only when they conclude,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which is participating in the meeting. Farmer organisations are likely to press for the MSP system to be written into law, which is high on their agenda. On October 30, food and consumers affairs minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, interacting with reporters, said that the “Centre’s door was open for talks with the farmers”. They had said the new reforms would allow farmers greater access to markets and spur investment in the sector. The government is likely to issue a statement once the talks conclude, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-hold-crucial-talks-with-farmers-protesting-central-laws/story-cidQ7Kj8OG6CD1WhaKdUVI.html
13-11-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ quality air, likely to deteriorate further and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ quality air, likely to deteriorate later todayA day before Diwali, Delhi woke up to “very poor” air quality on Friday morning – showing a marginal increase from the previous day’s 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI). On Friday morning the AQI is 328 while on Thursday the AQI was 314. Read more Contest to design Central Vista iconThe Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday announced a design competition to construct an “iconic structure” on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project to commemorate 75 years of independence. Read more ‘No evidence’ of lost or changed votes: US election officialsSenior US federal and state election officials said Thursday that there was “no evidence” that votes were lost or changed, or voting systems corrupted, in the presidential election. Read more Protests against farm laws: Haryana farmers to march to Delhi on November 18Thousands of farmers from the state will march to Delhi on foot in response to national farmer unions’ call and reach the Capital on November 26, said Bharitya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday. Read more ‘He is the Indian AB de Villiers’: Harbhajan Singh’s massive remark for uncapped IPL 2020 starVeteran India spinner Harbhajan Singh took to Twitter to question Suryakumar’s omission from the limited-overs squads. Recently, Harbhajan spoke to Star Sports about the Mumbai batsman, describing him as India’s AB de Villiers. Read more Here’s how to check how when your Google Photos storage will run outGoogle has announced that it is going to stop giving out unlimited photo storage for free on Google Photos. Of course, for most of us saving thousands of photos on Google Photos, this is horrible news and we need to figure out an alternate solution. Read more Rishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima remembers him on Diwali, posts pic from last year’s celebrations: ‘Miss you papa’Rishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni took to Instagram to share a picture from last year’s Diwali celebrations. That was the last Diwali the actor spent with his family before he died in April this year. Read more From Maruti to Tata and Mahindra, how safe are ‘Made-in-India’ carsSafety has come a long way in climbing the list of priorities for the Indian car buyer over the past several decades. And while it may still not be as significant as affordability and exterior styling - unfortunate as that is, it has prompted almost every car maker here to highlight and underline protection to occupants that are on offer in their respective products. Read more Anand Mahindra’s tweet on happiness has a big messageBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra, who is known for sharing inspiring and entertaining posts on his Twitter handle, shared a tweet with a picture. Not only does the image have a big message, but the caption Mahindra shared along with it is equally wonderful to read. Read more Bihar CM Nitish Kumar says ‘NDA to decide’ if he will be chief ministerBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that NDA will decide on the state’s next chief minister. Kumar’s JDU won 43 seats while BJP won 74 in recently concluded Bihar polls. “It is people’s mandate, NDA got majority with people’s support. Nothing has been finalised as of now, ECI must have submitted the list,” he said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-wakes-up-to-very-poor-quality-air-likely-to-deteriorate-further-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2TJvebWAnEp5y8rO6pldIO.html
