28-11-2020||India||Traffic movement hit in key roads of Delhi as police keep Singhu, Tikri borders closed||Traffic movement was affected on key roads in Delhi on Saturday as police kept the Singhu and the Tikri borders closed for vehicles.The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted that traffic movement was not allowed from Azadpur and Outer Ring Road towards the Singhu border.“We appeal to commuters to avoid travelling towards the Singhu and Tikri borders, Mukarba Chowk, NH-44, GT-Karnal Road and Outer Ring Road,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Chaudhary said.Also Read |  Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’Saturday being a holiday for most office goers, the traffic situation in other parts is better than Friday, she said.On Friday, the Delhi Police had curtailed movement at several places, including Dhansa, Jharoda Kalan, Tikri, Gurugram, Singhu and Chilla, to prevent protesting farmers from entering Delhi.Sections of Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road, NH-44 were also closed.The restrictions led to chaos and confusion among commuters who were stuck for hours.Some of the chaos eased out later in the day after police allowed the farmers to enter the national capital.Also Read | Farmers protest: Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon, charged with ‘attempt to murder’Farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have called a ‘Delhi Chalo’ march through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa.They have been demanding that the central government repeal the new farm laws, which, they say, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-movement-hit-in-key-roads-of-delhi-as-police-keep-singhu-tikri-borders-closed/story-bUGlGMkDY9meR186JSdufK.html
28-11-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi shares viral photo of farmers’ protest, says ‘this is very dangerous’||Several photos of farmers reaching the Capital braving Police’s tear gas, water cannon have gone viral on social media. Sharing one of them in which a jawan can be seen aiming his baton at a protesting farmer, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said it is a very sad photo. “Our slogan was Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, but today PM Modi’s arrogance made the jawan stand against the farmer. This is very dangerous,” Gandhi tweeted. बड़ी ही दुखद फ़ोटो है। हमारा नारा तो ‘जय जवान जय किसान’ का था लेकिन आज PM मोदी के अहंकार ने जवान को किसान के ख़िलाफ़ खड़ा कर दिया। यह बहुत ख़तरनाक है। pic.twitter.com/1pArTEECsUClick here for live updates of farmers’ protest in Delhi“Look at the country’s system in the BJP government. When the billionaire friends of BJP come to Delhi, they get red-carpet welcome. But when farmers come to Delhi, roads are being dug. It is right that anti-farmer laws are made but when farmers come to Delhi, it becomes wrong?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted denouncing police action on protesting farmers. भाजपा सरकार में देश की व्यवस्था को देखिएजब भाजपा के खरबपति मित्र दिल्ली आते हैं तो उनके लिए लाल कालीन डाली जाती है।मगर किसानों के लिए दिल्ली आने के रास्ते खोदे जा रहे हैं।दिल्ली किसानों के खिलाफ कानून बनाए वह ठीक, मगर सरकार को अपनी बात सुनाने किसान दिल्ली आए तो वह गलत? pic.twitter.com/rm7CFmaWALAlso Read: Protest may intensify, farmers from 4 states look to join stirOn Friday, the Delhi government welcomed the farmers to the Capital refusing Delhi Police’s plea to turn the stadiums of the city to imprison the protesters for the time being. The protesters were allowed to assemble at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari. A number of farmers said they want to go either to the Ramlila ground or Jantar Mantar to protest against the farm laws.The protest is likely to be intensified from Saturday onwards as farmers from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are likely to join the movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jawan-versus-kisan-rahul-gandhi-shares-viral-photo-says-this-is-very-dangerous/story-gBG2JDOv5137bmjALpnVoI.html
28-11-2020||India||Farmers protest: Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon, charged with ‘attempt to murder’||The video of a young Ambala farmer jumping on the water cannon from his tractor trolley and turning it off during farmers’ agitation in on National Highway 44 had gone viral on social media. The incident took place on November 25 as farmers were marching towards the Capital braving water cannon, tear gas in their protest against the three farm laws passed by Parliament recently.While the treatment meted out to the farmers on their way to Delhi drew severe criticism on social media, including from politicians like Arvind Kejriwal, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Amarinder Singh, the act of the young farmer of jumping from his tractor to the police vehicle with water cannon fitted on it won hearts. How a young farmer from Ambala Navdeep Singh braved police lathis to climb and turn off the water cannon tap and jump back on to a tractor trolley #farmersprotest pic.twitter.com/Kzr1WJggQI सत्ताधारियों इनके जज़्बे को लाठी और पानी की बौछार रोक नहीं सकती *Young #Farmer from Ambala, Navdeep Singh faced Police lathis *Climbed & Turned off Water Canon *Jumped on Tractor #FarmerProtest #FarmersDelhiProtest pic.twitter.com/wmxsMRBN7jAmbala’s 26-year-old Navdeep was hailed as a ‘hero’ on social media as the video went viral amid intensifying protest. Meanwhile, Navdeep has been booked for attempt to murder along with Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni. The police have accused them of breaking police barricade and attempting to run over policemen with a speeding tractor trolley. Charges of violating Covid-19 norms have also been brought against Navdeep in a case registered at Parao police station. On a complaint from head constable Pardeep Kumar, charges under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) have been brought against the protesters. The FIR said Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar, who was leading the police team at the spot, asked BKU chief Chaduni not to proceed further but he refused. Some of the police officials had a narrow escape and could have been run over by the tractors heading towards Delhi, the FIR mentioned.Navdeep’s brave act which has been caught on camera didn’t escape the notice of the policement deployed there to stop the protesters from proceeding. After he turned the tap off, he was chased by a policeman who struck him with a cane but Navdeep jumped back to the tractor which was brought near the police vehicle by his brother. Navdeep has joined farming with his father after completing graduation from Kurukshetra University in 2015 and has said that he believes in the cause of the protest and that the farmers have rights to organise peaceful protests. Navdeep’s father Jai Singh Jalbera is a local farmer activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-navdeep-singh-hailed-as-hero-for-turning-off-water-cannon-charged-with-attempt-to-murder/story-IvHaAEra72C7d7xElLzf8M.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Thousands of farmers stay put at Delhi’s borders, traffic disrupted||The Delhi Police’s proposal to allot the Sant Nirankari Ground in Burari as a protest site for farmers demonstrating against three contentious central laws did little to ease the situation on Friday with only a few of them accepting the offer to march in but others deciding to stay put at the borders. The few farmers who arrived at the Burari ground were those who had gathered at the Tikri Border. They cooked and camped at the huge ground along the Outer Ring Road even as the police kept watch. But a large number of protesters continued to camp at that border point through the night. At the Singhu border, which opens into Sonepat, none of the farmers accepted the offer and the impasse continued. As a result, key arterial roads remained closed for traffic through the night, causing massive disruption for commuters, including those wanting to enter Haryana from the national capital or vice-versa. “The farmers…are undecided about whether or not they should accept the Burari ground as the protest site. Since many of these groups look to be leaderless, it is difficult for us to have a conversation with them and arrive at a consensus,” said a senior police officer.Thousands of farmers protesting the Union government’s new farm laws pushed their way into Delhi on Friday after skirmishes with the police, which fired tear gas and used water cannons to stop them but later agreed to a peaceful demonstration within the city.The farmers who refused to accept the police’s offer on Friday said that they would settle for nothing less than the Rashtrapati Bhawan or a place close to the corridors of power. The police offer was made after a series of clashes at the borders with officials using tear gas shells and water cannons to disperse the agitators and putting up barded wires and barricades to deter them. On Friday, the police also closed two other border roads -- the Dhansa border and the Jharoda Kalan border -- for traffic as a precautionary measure, even through there were no protesters there. Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said that while the Dhansa border (which sees little traffic anyway) was opened on Friday evening, the Jharoda Kalan border was opened only for traffic towards Haryana. “The incoming traffic at Jharoda Kalan is open only for emergency traffic,” Meena said. “If someone is ending up at the Jharoda Kalan Border, we are asking them to enter through the Tikri Border,” said Meena on Saturday morning.On Friday, when protesters at landed at the city’s gates, they insisted on being let in, and it resulted in multiple conflicts between them and the police at the Singhu and Tikri borders. “But now the farmers themselves don’t want to enter the city,” said another senior police officer.Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in an attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thousands-of-farmers-stay-put-at-delhi-s-borders-traffic-disrupted/story-3GQt4EdDnLWYKD07MeQCQP.html
28-11-2020||India||Govt ready to deliberate on every problem, demand of farmers: Union home minister Amit Shah||Union minister Amit Shah on Saturday requested agitating farmers on Saturday to halt their protests against the recently passed farm bills and assured them that the Centre will discuss every issue that has been troubling farmers. According to news agency ANI, Shah said, “To farmers protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border and Punjab border, I would like to tell them that the central government is ready to discuss all their issues over a meeting called upon by the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 3. We are ready to hear all their concerns and demands.”Earlier union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar had also requested farmers to halt their protests against the recently passed farm bills and asked opposition parties not to politicise the issue. Protesting farmers also relented after assurances were made by the union minister. Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary Harinder Singh told ANI on Saturday that they will halt their protests at Singhu in Delhi-Haryana border and will conduct meetings every day at 11 am to discuss the course of the protest. Singh said, “It has been decided that we will continue our protest here and will not go anywhere else. We will meet at 11am every day to discuss our strategy.”Agitating farmers had taken out a Delhi Chalo march demanding rollback of the three recently passed farm bills. Farmers on Friday broke barricades at several checkpoints across the Delhi-Haryana border. Earlier on Thursday, farmers and Haryana police personnel clashed with each other at Sambhu and Karnal border points following which police fired water cannons and lobbed tear gas shells. Farmers are agitating against the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. The farmers groups believe that these three bills will affect the MSP system and allow private and multinational companies to make profits off farm yields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ready-to-deliberate-on-every-problem-demand-of-farmers-union-home-minister-amit-shah/story-s7aVWjDk1tMbAaEfUvigzL.html
28-11-2020||India||Farmers Protest Highlights: More Punjab farmers enter Haryana for protest||Farmers from Punjab, who are protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September, on Friday resumed their march to Delhi as a part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. On Thursday, the protesting farmers were able to cross into neighbouring Haryana despite violent clashes with the Haryana Police. The police’s action sparked a war of words between the two states.Also Read | Dilli Chalo: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiHowever, in a major development, the Delhi Police commissioner said farmers will be allowed to enter the national capital adding they will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area. Protesting farmers have now entered the national capital through the Tikri border. Earlier, the Delhi government turned down Delhi Police’s request to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails. Several MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which governs Delhi, had urged the govt to deny police’s request.Amid the ongoing agitation, farmer Dhanna Singh from Khiali Chahlan Wali village in Mansa district, who was on his way to Delhi was killed in an accident near Bhiwani. The Haryana Police registered a case against a truck driver who hit the tractor-trolley in which Singh was seated. Two others were injured in the incident. Here are the highlights from day 2 of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march:- National highway at Singhu border turns into mega kitchen at eveningA stretch of the national highway at Singhu border turned into a mega kitchen on Friday evening as exhausted farmers camped on the road along with their tractors and cooked dinner following a long day of protest. The tractors driven by farmers were loaded with ration and other food items, reports PTI. - Centre ready to discuss all issues with farmers: TomarUnion agricultural minister Narendra Tomar on Friday said that the central government is ready ti discuss all issues with the protesting farmers. He added that the government was already engaging with various farmer bodies and they have been called for discussions on December 3.- Will make all necessary arrangements: AAP welcomes farmers to DelhiWelcoming the protesting farmers, who were allowed to enter the national capital through the Tikri border to hold peaceful demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari, the AAP said that it will make all necessary arrangements for them. - AAP supports, stands with farmers; ‘dark’ farm laws must be withdrawn, say party MLAsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators on Friday extended their support towards the protesting farmers and said the new farm laws must be withdrawn. The farmers, mainly from Punjab, reached the national capital after “much struggle”, facing teargas shells, water canons and lathicharge by police at various border points, they added, reports PTI. - Kisan Cong accuses BJP ruled states of using repressive measures against farmersNational coordinator of Kisan Congress Rakesh Kumar Singh accused the BJP ruled states of using repressive measures against farmers. Singh went on to warn that attempts to quell farmers’ protests will only intensify them. “If the new farm laws are in the interest of farmers as claimed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi why does he shy away from meeting them?” Singh added. - Northern Railway cancels 2 trains, short terminates 5 trains and diverts 5 otherIn view of the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab, two trains have been cancelled, five have been short terminated and five others have been diverted, the Northern Railway said.  In view of farmers protest in Punjab, two trains cancelled, five trains short terminated and five others diverted: Northern Railway- Peaceful protests hallmark of democratic society, says AAP’s Raghav ChadhaAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha came out in support of the farmers’ protests and said the right to peacefully protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society. “The right to peacefully protest is enshrined in Indian constituion, which gives a right to protest to every individual. Above all, the right to peacefully protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society,” Chadha told news agency ANI. - Farmers enter Delhi through Tikri borderProtesting farmers have entered the national capital through the Tikri border after they were allowed to hold their demonstrations at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area, reports ANI. - Centre always ready for talks, dialogue would fetch solution: KhattarWith the central government allowing protesting farmers to enter the national capital, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday assured farmers that the Centre is always ready for talks and a solution can come out through dialogue. He appealed to farmers to directly talk to the Centre regarding their legitimate issues, reports PTI. - Welcome Centre’s decision to allow farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their right to protest: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the central government’s decision to allow farmers to enter the national capital to protest adding that talks to address farmers concerns should initiate immediately. “I welcome Centre’s decision to allow farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their democratic right to protest. They should also now initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the #FarmLaws and resolve the simmering issue”, Singh said, reports ANI. -Protesting farmers will be allowed to enter the national capital: Delhi Police commissionerDelhi police commissioner on Friday said that protesting farmers will be allowed to enter the national capital adding they will have the permission to protest at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the Burari area. The commissioner has further appealed to the farmers to maintain law and order and demonstrate peacefully, reports ANI. -PM Modi should implement ‘one nation, one behaviour’: Priyanka Gandhi targets CentreCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra targeted the central government over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should implement ‘one nation, one behaviour’, which is apparently a jibe to Modi’s ‘one nation, one election’, reports ANI. -Police fire tear gas shells on protesters at Singhu border Haryana: Police use tear gas to try to disperse farmers as they take part in protests against Centre's Farm laws, at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) pic.twitter.com/gVxsvulHhx-Farmers try to remove cemented blocks put by police on Shambhu border-Delhi govt denies police permission to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails.-Water cannon and tear gas shells used to disperse protesting farmers at Shambu border #WATCH Water cannon and tear gas shells used to disperse protesting farmers at Shambu border, near Ambala pic.twitter.com/EaqmJLhAZI-Centre should initiate talks with farm unions; Congress not instigating farmers, says Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh Those claiming it's @INCIndia that's instigating the farmers are blind not to see the lakhs of farmers trying to enter Delhi from across the country. It's a fight for their lives & livelihoods & they don't need any backing or provocation.-Farmers stopped at Shambhu border between Haryana and Punjab-While at least 105 farmers were detained on Thursday, numbers are expected to rise on Friday-Farmers’ unions write to PM Modi, urge him to let farmers enter Delhi and gather at Ramlila Maidan to hold talks with central govt-Farmers block Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura Mathura: Traffic jam at Yamuna Expressway as agitating farmers block the road. Police personnel present at the spot. pic.twitter.com/2fXDZ7uCLJ-Tear gas shells fired at protesters at Singhu border Heavy security deployment, tear gas used as farmers headed for Delhi protest at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border). https://t.co/PovJdCgsRE pic.twitter.com/fwKYd6rMRn-Delhi Police should stop calling itself ‘Dil Wali Police, tweets AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj I think it's a most inhuman thing we can do to our farmers. Delhi Police should stop calling themselves- दिल वाली पुलिस https://t.co/bqBH3MDcWB-Urge Delhi govt to deny police permission for setting temporary prisons, tweets AAP MLA Raghav Chadha I urge the Delhi Govt to deny permission for setting up temporary prisons. The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist.Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in Indian Constitution - Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society. https://t.co/cqMvEb181r-Security deployed, barriers placed at the Shambhu border between Haryana and Punjab, near Ambala to stop the protesting farmers. Security deployed, barriers placed at the Shambhu border between Haryana and Punjab, near Ambala, to stop the protesting farmers from proceeding to Delhi"We will ensure law and order is maintained," says SP Ambala pic.twitter.com/qBlXZ5r98J-Delhi Police seeks Delhi govt’s permission to convert nine stadiums into temporary prisons-Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed, tweets Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).-Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) prepare in Amritsar for their tractor rally towards Delhi Punjab: Members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee prepare in Amritsar for their tractor rally towards Delhi by stocking up essentials in trolleys."We have loaded food material for a month & cooking utensils in our trolleys. We're all headed towards Delhi now," says a farmer. pic.twitter.com/INJX58AoJB-After Singhu border, Delhi Police close the Tikri border that leads from Delhi to Haryana’s Bahadurgarh.-Traffic jam at Delhi-Gurugram border, CISF personnel deployed at border Delhi: Traffic jam at Delhi-Gurugram border, due to checking of vehicles by police, in view of farmers' protest march.CISF personnel also deployed on Delhi-Gurugram border. pic.twitter.com/VBPxwYoL1Q-Commuters headed to Delhi from other states stuck on Delhi-Panipat highway due to road blockade Haryana: Commuters headed towards Delhi from other states say they're facing problems after getting stuck on Delhi-Panipat Highway due to road blockade."I'm coming from Jammu & was suppose to reach Delhi yesterday evening. We have no updates so far," says Shivangi, a commuter. pic.twitter.com/kUvChySE74-No matter what, we’ll proceed to Delhi with ration for six months, say protesting farmers in Panipat -Vehicles are not allowed towards Singhu Border, interstate vehicles may take Western/Eastern Perpipheral Expressway, says Delhi Police-Earlier today, a farmer, who was a part of a group headed towards Delhi, after a truck hit the tractor -trolley at Mundhal in Bhiwani-Police fire tear gas shells at protesting farmers at Haryana-Delhi Singhu border #WATCH Police use tear gas shells to disperse protesting farmers at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border).Farmers are headed to Delhi as part of their protest march against Centre's Farm laws. pic.twitter.com/Z0yzjX85J5-Earlier, farmers gathered at Rohtak-Jhajjar border in Haryana to resume their ‘Dilli Chalo’ anti farm-laws march Rohtak: Farmers gathered at Rohtak-Jhajjar border, for 'Delhi Chalo' protest march against Centre's farm laws#Haryana pic.twitter.com/47rtOcYmOv-Heavy contingent of security personnel deployed at Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-punjab-farmers-to-resume-dilli-chalo-march/story-tG2IZgUDNfo4xSLPjvMAxI.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers let into Delhi after clashes at border||Thousands of farmers protesting the Union government’s new farm laws pushed their way into Delhi on Friday after skirmishes with the police, which fired tear gas and used water cannons to stop them from coming into the Capital, but later backed off and agreed to a peaceful demonstration within the city.Several layers of barriers could not keep the protesters – mostly from Punjab, demanding a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament – as they pelted stones and broke barricades to push through with their “Delhi Chalo” march.The new laws allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. The farmers groups, however, say that the laws are quiet on minimum support prices and will encourage monopolies and make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations.Delhi Police agreed to let the farmers march into the Capital after hours of a stand-off at some entry points. While thousands – gathered at Delhi’s Tikri border (it opens into Bahadurgarh) – proceeded in trucks to Burari after they were allowed to stage demonstrations at the Sant Nirankari Ground, a larger group of agitators gathered at Singhu border (it opens into Sonepat) stayed put as it couldn’t build consensus on whether to accept the police’s offer or continue the march to the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Jantar Mantar, or some other venue close to the corridors of power.By Friday morning, thousands gathered in trucks, tractors and trailers as they set up tents and camps. The police, too, camped on the other side through the night as large cement slabs, mud-filled trucks, barricades, and barbed wires separated them.The stand-off at the Singhu border began around 8.30am, when a group of farmers tried to remove the barricades. The police responded by firing tear gas shells that appeared to temporarily contain the farmers. At around 9.30am, farmers at the Tikri border made a similar attempt. The police resorted to the use of water cannons and tear gas shells.A little before 2pm, farmers managed to remove the barbed wires and then used ropes to tie the cement barriers to pull them out of their way at the Singhu border. They then brought down the iron barricades and threatened to march into Delhi.The developments came a day after thousands of farmers from Punjab broke barricades and forced their way into Haryana, braving tear gas shells and water cannons on their way to Delhi, which prepared for a law-and-order challenge as well as traffic disruptions. The farmers threw several barricades from an overbridge into the Ghaggar river, facing tear gas shells by law enforcement personnel. Traffic was disrupted in many parts of Delhi on Friday. The Delhi Traffic Police posted a series of tweets, asking people to avoid outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GTK road, NH-44 and Singhu border in view of the march.Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, previously announced they planned to go to Delhi through several routes – Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tension remained high at all border points on Friday evening.As the issue snowballed on Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said no government in the world can stop farmers fighting the “battle of truth”. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said the PM should remember that whenever arrogance takes on truth, it gets defeated. “The Modi government will have to agree to the demands of the farmers and take back the black laws. This is just the beginning!” he tweeted with the hashtag ‘IamWithFarmers’.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the Union government’s decision to allow the farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their democratic right to protest. “They should also now initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the #FarmLaws and resolve the simmering issue,” he said on Twitter.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was quoted by ANI as saying: “The government has always been ready to discuss issues with farmers. We have invited farmers’ organisations for another round of talks on December 3. I appeal to them to drop the agitation in view of Covid-19 and winter.” The scenes from both borders on Friday morning were of mayhem.At Singhu, a man climbed into a mud-laden truck – deployed by the police to keep farmers away – found the ignition key inside, and drove it into a water cannon parked nearby. As a group of policemen tried to stop him, he went on to ram a parked private bus and push it for nearly 100m before being apprehended. At another spot on the same border, a group of men climbed onto a tear gas machine vehicle and twisted the barrel to face the vehicle. The police responded by cane-charging them, firing several tear gas shells, and using water cannons on them. While some farmers crushed the shells with their feet, a few others wrapped them in cloth and hurled them back at the police.Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer north), said that the situation was in control. “We had to use some force to contain them, but the situation was in control the entire day,” said Sharma.The farmers were not keen on returning to their homes. “Some farmers have come from 400km away. We have dealt with the Haryana Police for long distances and covered roads dug out to keep us away. We are not going to back off at the last lap of our march,” said Saj Rinku, a farmer from Moga.“After discussion with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers have been permitted inside Delhi to hold peaceful protest at Nirankari Ground in Burari. The Delhi Police appeals to them to maintain peace,” said Eish Singhal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said: “We have been allowed safe passage to Delhi.”Before being allowed through the Tikri border, farmers clashed with the police and tried to remove a truck, which was placed as a barricade, by tying it to a tractor with the help of a chain.At the Singhu border, the police said they couldn’t find the farmers’ group leaders to discuss the next course of action. The farmers said that they did not have consensus on whether or not to accept the Burari offer. “We have not come all the way from Punjab and Haryana to be sent to an empty ground far away from the centre of Delhi. We could as well have sat at our homes. We’ll either march up to the Rashtrapati Bhavan or somewhere closer, or continue our protest at this spot. Our leaders are talking among themselves to decide,” said Dalveer Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana.In Burari, farmers began gathering by Friday evening. The police and government agencies also began preparing the ground by bringing in mobile toilets, water tankers, tents. Hoshiyar Singh, a 65-year-old farmer from Ropar, Punjab, said they reached Nirankari Ground around 4pm. “We had been detained near Bangla sahib on Thursday night. Police later released us and we came here. Our other farmer friends are at Singhu Border and they plan to stay put until we get Ramlila Ground as the site to protest,” he said.RS Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University said: “Farmers fear the reforms will disturb the minimum support price mechanism. Since the government sets MSPs, farmers are fair to demand actual realisation of those MSPs. But fears of any imminent threat to the MSP system seem exaggerated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-let-into-delhi-after-clashes-at-border/story-nKUU6pigcI4faslSzJsqoI.html
28-11-2020||India||Riding tractor trolleys, farmers from 4 states to join protest in Delhi||Farmers in tractor trolleys from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will head to Delhi to join those from Punjab and Haryana staging a protest against the new agricultural laws, said farm leaders, lending a boost to them. They are expected to enter Delhi through UP.Earlier today, after battling tear gas shells and water cannons for hours at the Delhi-Haryana border in Sonipat and Jhajjar, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana were allowed in the evening to enter through Tikri border and hold their protest at Burari in north-west Delhi against the three agricultural bills - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- passed by Parliament in its monsoon session.At Singhu border, which falls on Grand Trunk road, where thousands of tractor trolleys are stranded with farmers, the police did not allow entry till late in the evening. Haryana police officials said that there were many farmers in cars, buses and tractor trolleys heading towards Delhi from different highways in the state. The farmers’ bodies have been demanding repealing of these laws and bringing a new law ensuring minimum support price (MSP) for all agriculture produce in the country. Watch | Farmers enter Delhi, allowed to protest in Burari; AAP welcomes | Key details As the visuals of the protests on Delhi-Haryana border being stopped went viral, farmer bodies in at least 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh held protests and blocked traffic on highways with leaders calling the farmers to start a march towards Delhi from Saturday. Dharmendra Malik, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the union has decided that farmers would start marching towards Delhi from tomorrow in their tractor trolleys.“Five lakh farmers had staged a protest in Delhi for seven days in 1988 under the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tikait, compelling the then Rajiv Gandhi government at the Centre to accept their demands. Farmers would force the Modi government to withdraw the bills,” he said.A large number of farmers from Madhya Pradesh, who were trying to join the protest of farmers from Punjab and Haryana in Delhi, staged a protest near Agra at National Highway 3 on Friday as the UP police didn’t allow them to move forward.MP Kisan Sangh general secretary Akhilesh Singh said, “The farmers from MP had been trying to reach Delhi to join a peaceful protest since Wednesday night but the UP police were stopping them. On Friday morning, they sat on dharna at Saiyan toll near Agra on National Highway 3 and halted the traffic for more than five hours. Later, they were allowed to proceed towards Delhi on Delhi-Mathura-Agra highway.”The All India Kisan Sabha members from Rajasthan have mobilised farmers from Sri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh and Sikar districts to join the stir. “The farmers from Rajasthan will be joining the Delhi Chalo movement in the next few days. We have held solidarity protests in various parts of the state on Friday,” said Amra Ram, former law-maker and general secretary of the Kisan Sabha.Farmers in tractor trolleys from the paddy bowl of Uttarakhand, Uddham Singh Nagar, were stopped in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur from proceeding to Delhi. They have started an indefinite sit-in protest at Rampur national highway and blocked traffic for some time. They were joined by local farmers from UP.Tajendra Singh Virk, president, Terai Kisan Sanghtan, US Nagar, said, “UP police are not allowing us to head to Delhi in the name of Covid-19. We too have decided that we will continue our sit in and camp here till police allow us to go to Delhi.” The Uttar Pradesh police had deployed heavy force on the Rampur highway to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. When the UP police didn’t allow the farmers, despite several efforts, they started to sit near the barricade on the highway. “Farmers are already in pathetic condition due to the government’s policies. These farm bills will further aggravate our problems. So we’re left with no other option but to raise our voice in Delhi,” Virk said.There were protests in several places in Maharashtra such as Thane, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Sangli and Wardha with farm leaders saying they would decide in the few days whether they would join the farmer stir in Delhi or not. Although the three farm bills do not impact the farmers in Maharashtra much, Ashok Dhawale, National President of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “Thursday’s was a country-wide protest on the same issue. Punjab and Haryana are not the only states affected. We will soon take a call on joining the agitation in Delhi.” In the meantime, the farmers bodies have decided to organise protests over the next 4-5 days. “Protests will be held for the next four-five days,” he said. While there were no protests by farmers’ associations in Telangana, farmers in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city held a solidarity protest under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The protesters were detained by the police after they had a minor clash with them. AIKSCC leader, Vadde Sobhanadreeshwar Rao, lashed out at the NDA government for enacting a draconian law that would severely affect the farmers’ interests. It is unfortunate that even the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh had supported the legislation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riding-tractor-trolleys-farmers-from-4-states-to-join-protest-in-delhi/story-98diw5fLjUc74L663ZPfzM.html
28-11-2020||City||Farmers’ protests: Traffic jams cripple life in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi||Massive traffic jams were witnessed in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi on the second day of farmers’ agitation on Friday.The commuters were stuck for hours at the Zirakpur highway, and those heading towards Dera Bassi focal point were a harried lot as the police also kept the entry to the flyover closed to vehicular traffic.The entire traffic approaching the Patiala crossing was diverted on the road beneath the flyover causing a bottleneck, leading to miles-long queues of stuck vehicles. This blockade also resulted in a jam on the Panchkula side.The road was closed following the farmers’ call for agitation and movement towards New Delhi from Punjab, passing through Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru.In anticipation of another surge of farmers leading to deterioration of the law and order situation on Zirakpur to Lalru highway, the police barricaded the highway keeping alternate routes The entry borders at Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru were sealed where serpentine queues of vehicles could be seen for miles till late at night. Mohali police sealed the border with Zirakpur at 9.30am on Thursday, which was not opened for vehicular traffic till Friday; traffic movement on the Zirakpur flyover was also seized and no vehicle was allowed to go past the flyover or towards Ambala.The incoming traffic from Ambala was diverted at Dera Bassi towards Panchkula to reach Chandigarh. Similarly, the outgoing traffic from the Airport Road at the Patiala crossing was diverted towards Zirakpur where it was further diverted towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala to flow on the Yamunanagar expressway to reach Ambala and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protests-traffic-jams-cripple-life-in-zirakpur-dera-bassi/story-XreURJuVtBZ9MfqhbCTRlL.html
