29-11-2020||India||AAP will stand by protesting farmers, says Raghav Chadha | Top developments||The Aam Aadmi Party will support the protesting farmers and will arrange for their food, water, electricity as directed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said on Sunday. “Wherever farmers want to protest in Delhi, they should be given permission. As per Delhi CM directives, AAP govt will play the role of Sewadar for protesting farmers. We’ll arrange langar, water, electricity etc. for them. We will stand by the farmers,” he said.The protest spearheaded by 32 farmers’ organisations against the three recently passed agricultural laws entered its fourth day on Sunday with signs of intensifying as the protesters have threatened to block all entry points to the Capital. The organisations have also rejected centre’s “conditional’ dialogue proposal.Here are the top 10 developments:1. Protesters who reached Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground, the designated place for the agitation, on Saturday held protests on Sunday.2. Those who are protesting at Delhi’s borders said they would not move to Burari ground. “The condition put for talks is an insult to farmers. We will never go to Burari. It is not a park but an open jail,” Surjeet S Phul, Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Punjab president, said. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, in a letter to the organisations, said that as soon as all protesters shift to Burari, a high-level committee of Union ministers will hold talks at Vigyan Bhavan with the representatives of all farmers’ unions.3. The border blockade will not end, the president said adding that the protesters will block all five entry points to Delhi.4. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the home ministry should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside its jurisdiction. They demanded a Cabinet committee or a group of ministers for discussion.5. The protesters have also decided to not let anyone speak at their protests6. Several Khaps or caste councils from Haryana have extended support to the farmers’ ongoing protest and will march towards the national capital.7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann ki Baat address said the farm reforms will free farmers from various shackles and will give them new rights and opportunities. 8. Union home minister Amit Shah said he never alleged that the protest ws political. “Whoever wants to oppose it politically let them do it. I have never said the farmers protest is political and would never say (that it is political,” he said.9. BJP chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar held a meeting over farmers protest at the BJP chief’s residence.10. Singhu and Tikri borders remain closed, according to Delhi Traffic Police’s latest updates. “Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road.Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu borders. Tikri border is closed for any traffic movement. Available open borders to Haryana are Jharoda,Dhansa ,Daurala Jhatikera,Badusari,Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera,Palam vihar and Dundahera borders,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-will-stand-by-protesting-farmers-says-raghav-chadha-top-developments/story-53cxPfxz0xUgJFIz6i9daP.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: ‘Why did you try to stop them in Haryana,’ Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concerns||The fiery exchange between Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar went a notch higher on Sunday after Khattar claimed that he didn’t allow the farmers’ protest in his state in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. He also questioned why Amarinder Singh allowed such a congregation in his state amid the ongoing pandemic. “If he was so concerned about farmers spreading Covid-19 in Haryana whose track record in the pandemic remains extremely poor, he should not have stopped them within the state, but should have allowed them to move quickly to Delhi,” Singh said.Also Read: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’says ML Khattar, backs Haryana PoliceThe verbal fight between the two neighbouring states began after Amarinder Singh denounced Haryana’s action of using “force” on farmers, which Khattar defended and said using water cannon and tear gas, according to him, was not using “force”. “A man who can disown his own farmers and even go so far as to call them Khalistanis instead of standing by them in this hour of crisis clearly has no moral scruples about spreading lies,” the Punjab CM said after Khattar claimed that he wanted to talk to Amarinder on farmers’ issues but the Punjab chief minister was not available.The farmers’ organisations, a majority of which have entered Delhi by Saturday, have refused to hold protest in Burari ground which they have termed as “an open jail”. “Instead of going to open jail in Burari, we’ve decided that we will gherao Delhi by blocking five main entry points to Delhi. We’ve got four months ration with us, so nothing to worry. Our Operations Committee will decide everything,” Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari (Punjab) president Surjeet S Phul told ANI.Meanwhile, all Khaps of Haryana on Sunday decided to support the protesting farmers. “Khaps will gather tomorrow and proceed towards Delhi. We request the Centre to re-consider the farm laws. Everyone has a right to express themselves,” Sombir Sangwan, Haryana Khap Pradhan and Dadri MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-why-did-you-try-to-stop-them-in-haryana-amarinder-singh-questions-khattar-s-covid-19-concerns/story-JZJxJu1DcgsxGTDPYQ54MI.html
29-11-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: ‘Don’t see use of tear gas, water cannon as force,’says ML Khattar, backs Haryana Police||Amid severe criticism of how Haryana Police used ‘force’ on farmers as they were marching towards Delhi protesting against three recently passed farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said he doesn’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force. “I don’t consider using tear gas and water cannon as using force,” he said questioning how Punjab government could allow such protests during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.After Haryana Police resorted to tear gas and water cannon amid freezing cold to disperse farmers’ gathering a verbal brawl ensued between Khattar and Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh. Singh accused the Haryana government of using “brute force” against farmers which is “totally undemocratic and unconstitutional”, he said. Khattar, in his swipe at Singh, said he would leave politics if there will be any trouble regarding the minimum support price (MSP) because of the new farm laws. Khattar also accused Singh of being “unavailable” for talks on the farmers’ issues. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” Singh said. Khattar also hinted at “unwanted elements” in the crowd of protesters and claimed that “card holders” in the Punjab CM’s office have been directing protesters. While the action of police on protesters met criticism, Haryana Police had said they acted with “great restraint”. “Many of our vehicles were damaged by farmers. We tried convincing them to stop their march. We did not use any force against the farmers. We handled the situation with great restraint ensuring law and order is maintained,” state police chief Manoj Yadava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-don-t-see-use-of-tear-gas-water-cannon-as-force-says-ml-khattar-backs-haryana-police/story-JjoOfDqB5t2fjxiysEdGOI.html
29-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers’ forum rejects early talks offer, sit-in to continue at Delhi borders||The joint forum of 30 farmers unions have rejected Centre’s offer of early talks in a unanimous decision and said they were against any precondition to talks to resolve a deadlock over the three farm laws passed recently by the Parliament. The Central government had offered to advance the talks if the farmer groups protesting against the farm laws at Delhi’s borders agreed to move to a designated venue at Burari in the national capital. President of Sidhupur faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Jagjit Singh Dalewal, said that the forum’s decision was taken in the meeting held at Singhu border. He stressed that farmers will talk to the Centre only if there is no pre-condition.“Venue for holding a protest is no longer our demand. Our supporters are on road at various places leading to Delhi and the indefinite dharna has begun. It has been resolved that talks with the Centre are possible only if they sent an invitation without any pre-condition. We will send a written reply to the Union minister and home secretary detailing reasons for rejection of the conditioned offer,” said Dalewal, leader of a key constituent of the joint forum of farmers. He denied there was an invitation from the Centre for talks on December 1.The meeting at Singhu border was called in light of a late Saturday missive sent by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to all the 32 farmer unions protesting for the last two days. It stated that a high-powered group of ministers was ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the authorities would were willing to advance the talks if the protesting farmers moved to the earmarked protest site in Burari in Delhi.The next round of talks was otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.Also Read: Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community A section of farmers had expressed a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. A farmer leader said that the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.Meanwhile, the Ughrahan faction of the BKU, one of the most active in Punjab, is yet to take a clear stand on the matter. “Our union leaders will soon hold talks with the joint forum before taking a decision,” Ughrahan said.Earlier today, Ughrahan had stated that the group wanted to hold a demonstration at Jantar Mantar.A large gathering of Ughrahan faction is stationed on the outskirts of Delhi near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. “As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: ‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay RautGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protests would be decided with unanimity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forum-rejects-early-talks-offer-sit-in-to-continue-at-delhi-borders/story-9dUyuV02HYv1Y6W5TjagNP.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Amit Shah can do roadshow 1,200 km away but farmers are at doorstep,’ Congress attacks BJP over farmers’ protest||If the Prime Minister defends the farm bills, then what is the point of discussion with the protesting farmers, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday said taking a swipe at the BJP government amid the ongoing farmers protests in the Capital. Referring to Modi’s Mann ki Baat speech where PM Modi said the new farm laws have given new rights and opportunities to farmers, Surjewala questioned Centre’s offer to talks with the farmers.“Amit Shah can travel 1200 km and do a roadshow in Hyderabad. The farmers are just 15 km away. But he can’t go and meet them,” Surjewala said. Also Read: Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm laws“There are several questions over these three laws. If there is no mandi, then who will buy crop from farmers in minimum support price. The government is saying farmers can now sell their crops to other states. But 86 per cent of the farmers have less than five acre of land. They can even go out of their district with their crops. And in his Mann ki Baat today, Modiji defended these anti-farmer laws,” Surjewala said. Also Watch | Amit Shah holds roadshow in Hyderabad, dares KCR to admit ‘alliance’ with AIMIM The Congress demanded immediate suspension of the three farm laws and the withdrawal of the 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should talk to the farmers. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar should apologise for calling farmers terrorists. So should BJP spokesperson Amit Malviya for calling them ‘Khalistanis’,” Surjewala said.The Centre has invited the protesting farmers for a talk on December 3. Thousands of farmers have reached New Delhi on Saturday, responding to the Delhi Chalo call gainst the three farm laws — defeating all administrative attempts to not let them enter the Capital. The AAP government has designated Burari ground where several farmers are protesting at present but several other groups have denied to move there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-can-do-roadshow-1-200-km-away-but-farmers-are-at-doorstep-congress-attacks-bjp-over-farmers-protest/story-zKXDKyCr7eC0EXLuUHixWL.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Listen to annadata, reconsider farm laws’, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday demanded the central government to reconsider the three farm laws that have sparked a furore among the country’s farmers. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he stated that even when the GDP growth rate has been -7.5% in the second quarter of the current fiscal, the agriculture sector has grown 3.4%. “In these difficult times, the Annadata (providers) are making positive contributions to the economy and they should not be given such a reward,” he said. Gehlot demanded that Modi reconsider these laws to protect the interests of farmers and democratic values. “On 26 November, when the country was celebrating Constitution Day, the farmers were hit with sticks and water cannons. To prevent farmers from reaching Delhi to highlight their demands, roads were dug and barriers were set up. The central government tried to take away the right to protest of the farmers which is not justified,” said Gehlot. He went on to say, “The farmers have irrigated the land of the country with their blood and sweat. The central government should immediately resolve their problems by listening to their demands.”The CM said the three bills were brought by the central government without any discussion with farmers and experts. The government also ignored the demand by opposition parties in Parliament to send these bills to the select committee. These laws do not mention the minimum support price, which has led to distrust among farmers. Gehlot said that if these laws are implemented, the farmers will become dependent on private players. Also, with the formation of private mandis, the existence of long-standing agricultural mandis will also end. Due to this, farmers will not get the right price for their produce. Gehlot also informed the PM of the amendments made by the state in the three laws to protect the interest of farmers in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-to-annadata-reconsider-farm-laws-ashok-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/story-1jjRL807EVbZnHPQPI92lJ.html
29-11-2020||India||‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday lashed at the Centre for preventing farmers from entering Delhi and said that it was regrettable that farmers were being treated like “terrorists”.“The way farmers have been stopped from entering Delhi, it looks like as if they do not belong to this country. They have been treated like terrorists. Since they are Sikh and have come from Punjab and Haryana, they are being called Khalistani. It is an insult to farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Raut as saying.Also Read: Farmer unions reject Centre’s offer of early talks to resolve deadlock over farm lawsSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “humiliating the farmers by calling them terrorists.” “Humiliating the farmers by calling them terrorists is the worst form of BJP. This is a conspiracy of the BJP, which supports the rich and wants to mortgage small-businesses, shopkeepers, roads transport everything to big corporates. If according to the BJP, the farmers are terrorists, then the party should swear that they will not consume the produce grown by farmers,” the SP chief tweeted in Hindi..Also Read: Sikh politicians, separatists in Canada wade into farmers’ protest rowMeanwhile, the Centre approached the protesting farmers with an offer to hold talks before December 3. The letter from home secretary, however, laid down some conditions. The offer was rejected by the farmer unions.On Saturday, home minister Amit Shah had said that his government was ready to hold talks with the agitating farmers. “The Union government is ready to hold talks. The agriculture minister has invited them on December 3 for a discussion. The government is ready to deliberate on every problem and demand of farmers,” he said.Farm unions are protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-insult-that-farmers-treated-as-terrorists-sanjay-raut/story-tb5Nnb8QOCEGYybGJ2nMqK.html
29-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers’ forum rejects early talks offer, sit-in to continue at Delhi borders||The joint forum of 30 farmers unions have rejected Centre’s offer of early talks in a unanimous decision and said they were against any precondition to talks to resolve a deadlock over the three farm laws passed recently by the Parliament. The Central government had offered to advance the talks if the farmer groups protesting against the farm laws at Delhi’s borders agreed to move to a designated venue at Burari in the national capital. President of Sidhupur faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Jagjit Singh Dalewal, said that the forum’s decision was taken in the meeting held at Singhu border. He stressed that farmers will talk to the Centre only if there is no pre-condition.“Venue for holding a protest is no longer our demand. Our supporters are on road at various places leading to Delhi and the indefinite dharna has begun. It has been resolved that talks with the Centre are possible only if they sent an invitation without any pre-condition. We will send a written reply to the Union minister and home secretary detailing reasons for rejection of the conditioned offer,” said Dalewal, leader of a key constituent of the joint forum of farmers. He denied there was an invitation from the Centre for talks on December 1.The meeting at Singhu border was called in light of a late Saturday missive sent by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to all the 32 farmer unions protesting for the last two days. It stated that a high-powered group of ministers was ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the authorities would were willing to advance the talks if the protesting farmers moved to the earmarked protest site in Burari in Delhi.The next round of talks was otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.Also Read: Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community A section of farmers had expressed a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. A farmer leader said that the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.Meanwhile, the Ughrahan faction of the BKU, one of the most active in Punjab, is yet to take a clear stand on the matter. “Our union leaders will soon hold talks with the joint forum before taking a decision,” Ughrahan said.Earlier today, Ughrahan had stated that the group wanted to hold a demonstration at Jantar Mantar.A large gathering of Ughrahan faction is stationed on the outskirts of Delhi near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. “As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: ‘An insult that farmers treated as terrorists’: Sanjay RautGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protests would be decided with unanimity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forum-rejects-early-talks-offer-sit-in-to-continue-at-delhi-borders/story-9dUyuV02HYv1Y6W5TjagNP.html
29-11-2020||India||Punjab farmer unions meet to decide on Centre’s early talks offer||Representatives of various farmer unions from Punjab are holding a meeting near the national capital to take a decision on an offer of early talks made by the Centre provided the protesting farmers move to a designated site in Burari in the capital.In a communication sent late Saturday night to all 32 farmer unions camping in and around Delhi for the last two days, the Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla stated that a high-powered group of ministers is ready to hold talks with a delegation of farmers. The message further stated that the union authorities would meet them as early as a day after all the protesting farmers move to the earmarked Burari site in Delhi.The proposed meeting would be held at the Vigyan Bhawan complex if the farmers accept the condition laid out by the government for early talks. The talks were otherwise originally scheduled to take place on December 3.The Farmers body said that no formal invite was given to farmers for advancing the talks to December 1 from December 3. It confirmed that the letter from the home secretary received yesterday, offering to advance the date of talks, was the last communication received on the matter.Joginder Singh Ughrahan, president of the Ughrahan faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), confirmed receiving an official letter of talks from the centre government.“All unions are gathering near Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. As of now, a caravan of our activists is stationed at the Delhi border. We could not move to enter the national capital due to the huge rush of farmers heading to Delhi for protests,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi backs farm laws, dispels concerns in Mann Ki Baat addressGeneral secretary of Dakonda faction of the BKU, Jagmohan Singh, said all 32 farmer unions of Punjab are united and any further course of protest would be decided with unanimity.Meanwhile, an office-bearer of one of the BKU factions said that a section of farmers has a strong reservation against holding protests at Burari as it is associated with the Nirankari sect. The leader said the unions had no plans to vacate the roads leading to Delhi, and the blockades on Bahadurgarh and Chandigarh highways may continue till Sunday night.“The national convention of farmers had decided to hold a protest at Jantar Mantar. But the central government is insisting that we move to Burari. But as a section of Sikh farmers is against this venue, we will try to convince them,” said a senior functionary of a union.Also Read: Protesting farmers not ‘properly understood’ new farm laws, says Niti Aayog memberHowever, sources said a vast open space spread over 23 hectares in Burari is actually owned by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).“It is popularly known as Nirankari Samagam Ground but the sect is among several other organisations that hold programmes at the site due to spacious vehicular parking and the capacity to accommodate large gatherings. Jantar Mantar is located in the heart of the city and the presence of hundreds of protestors would jeopardise the traffic management,” said an official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmer-unions-meet-to-decide-on-centre-s-early-talks-offer/story-R5vLihKBJW8tNBpNDOp4VP.html
29-11-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi backs farm laws, reaches out to agri community||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday sought to dispel concerns about the recently passed farm laws and cited an example of a farmer who used the new law to his advantage.In his monthly radio broadcast, Man Ki Baat the Prime Minister said, “New dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India. The agriculture reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers.”The Prime Minister said decades-old demands of farmers were met with Parliament passing laws aimed at liberalizing the farm sector after rigorous brainstorming. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” he said. The PM’s remarks came against the backdrop of the ongoing agitation by a large section of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, who have marched to the Capital in protest against the laws. The Prime Minister went on to cite the example of a Maharashtra-based farmer, Jitendra Bhoiji, who used one of the new laws to recover money owed to him. The PM said after he failed to get the amount even four months after selling his produce, Bhoiji got his money back using a provision of the law that specifies it is mandatory to pay farmers within three days of purchasing the produce.“If the payment is not made the, the farmer can make a complaint. Under the law, there is a provision that the SDM of the area must address the complaint of the farmer within a month,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also cited the example of Mohammad Aslam in Rajasthan‘s Botton district, who is creating awareness among farmers by updating them about the day-to-day rates in the local mandis. Aslam is the CEO of a farm producers’ federation. A third example that the Prime Minister gave was that of Virendra Yadav, who returned from Australia to Haryana‘s Kaithal and has found a solution to farm stubble. Instead of burning stubble which causes immense damage to the air quality, Yadav has been selling the stubble to paper mills and agro energy plants, and has made profit in two years’ time.A large number of farmers are protesting against the government’s moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-backs-farm-laws-dispels-concerns-in-mann-ki-baat-address/story-78SDt9HxD3Rr03R6ETTfmL.html
29-11-2020||India||‘Listen to annadata, reconsider farm laws’, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday demanded the central government to reconsider the three farm laws that have sparked a furore among the country’s farmers. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he stated that even when the GDP growth rate has been -7.5% in the second quarter of the current fiscal, the agriculture sector has grown 3.4%. “In these difficult times, the Annadata (providers) are making positive contributions to the economy and they should not be given such a reward,” he said. Gehlot demanded that Modi reconsider these laws to protect the interests of farmers and democratic values. “On 26 November, when the country was celebrating Constitution Day, the farmers were hit with sticks and water cannons. To prevent farmers from reaching Delhi to highlight their demands, roads were dug and barriers were set up. The central government tried to take away the right to protest of the farmers which is not justified,” said Gehlot. He went on to say, “The farmers have irrigated the land of the country with their blood and sweat. The central government should immediately resolve their problems by listening to their demands.”The CM said the three bills were brought by the central government without any discussion with farmers and experts. The government also ignored the demand by opposition parties in Parliament to send these bills to the select committee. These laws do not mention the minimum support price, which has led to distrust among farmers. Gehlot said that if these laws are implemented, the farmers will become dependent on private players. Also, with the formation of private mandis, the existence of long-standing agricultural mandis will also end. Due to this, farmers will not get the right price for their produce. Gehlot also informed the PM of the amendments made by the state in the three laws to protect the interest of farmers in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-to-annadata-reconsider-farm-laws-ashok-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/story-1jjRL807EVbZnHPQPI92lJ.html
