30-11-2020||India||Nitish says farmer’s agitation due to misconception, favours talks||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that the farmers’ protests are taking place because of misconceptions and favoured dialogues between the government and farmers’ bodies. “The Central government wants to talk to farmers to dispel the fear of issues in the procurement mechanism. So I believe that dialogue should take place. The protests are happening on account of misconceptions,” said Kumar on the sidelines of a function in Patna. Kumar backed the farm bills passed by Parliament by recalling that his government had abolished the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006 and commenced public procurement. “Farmers will not face any problem in procurement as it happened in Bihar,” said the Bihar CM. Also read | Congress launches social media campaign to garner support for agitating farmersHe said when the farmers come to the table for talks, their misconceptions will be dispelled. “In Bihar, farmers are not facing any problem. This year too, we have kept the target of procuring 3 million tonnes of foodgrains,” he said. Kumar had earlier lent support to the farm bill, maintaining that there was nothing wrong in replicating such a model across the country and had alleged that misinformation was being spread about The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Supporting them, he had said that these bills are in the interest of the farmers. The Bihar government replaced agriculture markets with roadside wholesale markets where farmers sell their produce directly to private players. The local municipal bodies, which set up these markets, charge 1% of the selling price each from the farmer and the buyer as a facilitation fee. Kumar had remarked, “In 2006, we abolished it (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act). Then, we started the procurement process. So, the situation in Bihar is different.” Farmers have been protesting at various places in Delhi and Haryana and have rejected the Central government’s offer to hold talks on December 3, saying that imposing conditions for starting a dialogue is an insult to them. Around 32 farmer organisations, mostly from Punjab, and some from Gujarat and Maharashtra managed to reach Delhi on Friday and assembled at the borders where they have continued to protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-says-farmer-s-agitation-due-to-misconception-favours-talks/story-upwMTLpxuKy1D7cKG1AzPM.html
30-11-2020||India||CPWD blames Opposition leaders for muted microphones in RS during farm Bills’ passage||The government’s construction arm, CPWD, has blamed the Opposition parties for the microphones going silent in the Rajya Sabha during the passage of the contentious farm Bills in September. It led to a brief period of silence on Rajya Sabha TV too. The Opposition had accused the Rajya Sabha authorities of deliberately switching off the microphones to silence the critics of the Bills. The CPWD, responsible for the maintenance of the Parliament building, wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretariat, “It is informed that abrupt interruption in the audio feed of the Rajya Sabha proceedings between 13.05hrs and 13.35hrs on September 20 during consideration of two farmer’s bills by Rajya Sabha was due to damage to the chairman’s microphones by the Hon’ble MPs.” Some Opposition MPs were accused of wrenching the microphone of the deputy chairman Harivansh, storming into the Well of the House, throwing papers and House rule book at the Chair and abusing him. They hurled some papers at the deputy chairman. As many as eight Opposition leaders were suspended till the end of the monsoon session for these “gross disorderly conduct” leading to another round of tussle between the Opposition and the government. Also read | Farmer groups say no political parties will be allowed to speak at protests, term Burari site as ‘open jail’While the Opposition denied uprooting microphones, the CPWD corroborated with what the government managers had said. “As per the directions of the chair, no other mic was on except those of the chairman. So, when these mics were broken, there was no audio output from the system to RSTV,” it wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretariat. Ruling out any technical issue causing interruption, it said, “the sound system was working perfectly and audio feed resumed when the broken mics were replaced with the permission of marshals and table office.” On September 20, Parliament marshals formed a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings when the MPs charged at him, ostensibly for not paying heed to their demand for a division of votes on the two agricultural reform Bills. The bills were passed by voice vote, without being referred to a select committee of Parliament. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress accused each other of not upholding democratic norms after action was ordered by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu against MPs from four Opposition parties for their protest in which they stormed the Well of the House and charged towards the Chair, which was at that time occupied by deputy chairman Harivansh. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Admi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) were suspended for seven days each. The last time a large group of MPs was suspended from the Upper House was in 2010, when seven MPs from three parties were barred for the rest of the session over their protests against the Women’s Reservation Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpwd-blames-opposition-leaders-for-muted-microphones-in-rs-during-farm-bills-passage/story-EQmOkCyFoHgpiYjvbMXXVM.html
30-11-2020||India||BJP leaders brainstorm for second day, say govt ready for talks with farmers||Eager to break the deadlock with famers who are agitating for scrapping the new farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership held meetings for a second consecutive day on Monday and sent out the message that the Union government is ready for talks. Union home minister Amit Shah met Union minister for agriculture, NS Tomar earlier in the day to discuss the strategy to break the logjam. A senior party functionary said, “The message from the top is clear that the laws are not anti-farmers and that the farmers are being misled. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reiterated that laws will offer better opportunity for the farmers.” The functionary said the government is ready to sit across the table and discuss the new laws and “address whatever concerns” the farmers have. Speaking in Varanasi, the PM on Monday said the laws have given farmers new options and legal protection. He lashed out at the opposition for “misleading” the farmers and said earlier decisions of government were opposed now rumours have become the basis for opposition and propaganda is being served even though the laws favour the farmers. The party has also opted for a cautious, measured response to the agitation. Even though it is pinning the blame on the opposition for provoking the protest, it is taking care not to rile the farmers. “The farmers are innocent. They are being misled by those with vested interests. The laws have barely been implemented and their impact is yet to be ascertained, so how can people rush to call these anti-farmers,” said Rajkuamr Chahar, head of the BJP’s Kisan Morcha. He said the Punjab unit of the Morcha has been communicating with the farmers’ representatives and has relayed the government’s willingness to address their concerns. On Monday, even as the party tried to diffuse the anger against the bills, its ally the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) joined the chorus for the rollback of the laws. Rajasthan lawmaker and RLP chief, Hanuman Beniwal, shot off a letter to Shah, seeking the reversal of the laws. “….In view of the countrywide sentiment in support of the ongoing farmers’ movement, the recently introduced three bills related to agriculture should be immediately withdrawn. (The Centre must) implement all recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, and immediately hold dialogue with farmers in Delhi,” he said. The BJP, however, played down the ally’s demand. Its national spokesperson on economic issues, Gopal Krishna Agarwal said, “We assure all, including our NDA partners that farmers’ well-being and welfare are in our heart. Large scale market reforms are needed and that has always been the consensus.” He went on to add that while the BJP opposes misgivings about the APMC mandis being dismantled and MSP being withdrawn, the opposition is politicizing the issue along with the Arhtiyas (commission agents) and middleman. “We have offered all the basic facilities to farmers, drinking water, toilets, shelters and medical facilities. They have been given permission to protest and also been invited for dialogue. We are open for all discussions on the merits or demerits of the three bills. If farmers have certain serious concerns, we are ready to listen to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-brainstorm-for-second-day-say-govt-ready-for-talks-with-farmers/story-Cp7MfBpPiWb90PSE5iVEMM.html
30-11-2020||India||Govt invites Kisan Union for talks on Dec 1 at Vigyan Bhawan: Narendra Singh Tomar||Amid ongoing protests by farmers against the new farm laws, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday invited leaders of the farmer unions for talks on December 1.The meeting will be held at 3 PM at Vigyan Bhawan here, the minister said.“On November 13 we decided to conduct next round of talks on December 3 but Farmers continued their protest and with the Covid situation and with winters we decided that we needed to talk before December 3 and resolve the situation. That is why on December 1 at 3 pm in Vigyan Bhawan all Kisan Unions are invited who were present in the first round of meeting,” Tomar told ANI here.Tomar said that farmers were under some misunderstanding regarding the newly enacted farm laws and the government is committed to have talks with the kisan unions who were present in first round of meeting with the government.“Under Modiji leadership, in the last six years, for farmer income increase many historic work was done. When the new farm amendment laws came, farmers had some myths in their mind. We conducted two sessions of meeting with Kisan Unions, the first on October 14 at at the Secretary level and on November 13 I was there with Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash and spoke to Kisan Unions,” Tomar added.The farmers had rejected the Centre’s ‘conditional’ offer to hold talks, saying that they will not accept any conditional dialogue and threatened to block entry points to the national capital.Farmers from different states have gathered at north Delhi’s Burari ground while others are camping at the borders to the national capital. The agriculture minister also requested the farmers to leave the agitation and come for the talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-invites-kisan-union-for-talks-on-dec-1-at-vigyan-bhawan-narendra-singh-tomar/story-wAjGI4gUXindQKUUeH6ClL.html
