11-03-2021||One of the best stories of faith I have come across is that of my own infant daughter. As I playfully lift her up||A leap of faith, away from fear||I think we as humans, along with other gifts, are born with the gift of faith. Whether it is smiling at a stranger or flying in the air, a child is a testimony to the faith instilled at our very creation. However, it is often lost to the world of rationality in the process of evolution. I have been no exception, and in my case, I developed a phobia for height.There is another perspective to human evolution. We tend to rationalise most decisions. I too rationalise most decisions with my home developed rationality coefficient. In this, I evaluate most decisions with the medical or economic risk involved to the pleasure gained. Being a medico, the tilt has always been towards safety. As a result, I always developed risk aversion, a laid-back approach and not taking up challenges.However, life has been kind. It teaches new lessons every day, some in linear and others in circular fashion. This time, circular learning was to come via a friendly union at Rishikesh, where the highlight was bungee jumping.On the one hand was the fear of heights, but on the other, the joy of reunion. The idea was to skip the adventure part with medical logic.But a friend asked me to reconsider. ‘Check the probability coefficient also, the probability of you coming out safely with such a fine memory is larger and the probability of you reliving that fine memory is even larger,’ he reasoned.I realised that we take all decisions based on logic but are unfairly biased towards the worst outcome.The learning had come. That very afternoon, a small step on the bungee platform and a big leap of faith was taken. I jumped off and realised there were more butterflies in the air than in my stomach; more light inside than outside, more buoyancy in the moment than gravity. It was an experience both physical and spiritual; more reaffirmation and determination which instilled a fresh wave of optimism in me.Having trust beyond fear is not foolishness. It’s courage, it’s faith. It’s a special quality which man has been gifted with. It’s something which we are born with, but may flatten it out. Logic and rationality are not sufficient for a lifetime. Gathering a bagful of lifelong memories may take small steps to begin with, but ends with a few leaps of faith.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/a-leap-of-faith-away-from-fear-223434
