12-03-2021||All through the year gone by||Beard pledge and razor’s edge||The reason she ascribed to the belief was that since I spoke too much, it could stunt the growth of my beard. Being apprehensive of an imperial beard, or a bald chin, I began shaving early in life. I am not aware what Modi’s mom told him!Recalling the shaving scenarios, Hari Ram naai of the movie Sholay came to mind. He had typical traits of the clap-trap man who knew secrets, and would either scrap through one side of the moustaches of his customers with a razor, or would abort the operation leaving lather on his face. In the movie Haqeeqat, the barber was no less funny and made Army jawans stand in a queue, apply lather in one go to all, and perform single-go-shaving in succession on either side of the jawans.Mamraj naai was a copybook character in my village. He knew the soft and hard strands in nearly all men’s beard in the village. He discarded using soap since he said it didn’t help shaving in any way, but just to mark the area to be ploughed through. He only used water to soften the hairy prods and would go his way with enough scratching sound produced by his razor.With my father, shaving was no less than a project undertaken sitting in his bed. After morning tea, he would sit cosily in his bed with a small towel spread on his crossed legs. Invariably, he used warm water in a mug. All through, he would keep looking into a mirror placed appropriately in front of him. He would look at himself from different angles. I kept watching him intently. At times, my facial muscles also twitched while my father shaved the deep furrows in his cheeks.He used Erasmic soap cake and Topaz blades very sparingly. Every movement with his tools was a calculated and clinical one. Before the blades, I had seen him using the traditional razor which was sharpened on a leather strap. The riskiest part of the project was when he aligned and shaped his moustache with an open blade held in his fingers. Later, he would apply a small slab of alum all over his face.Thank you, Mr Modi, for reminding me of my father! These days, we do a clumsy job with foam applied with fingers on the face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/beard-pledge-and-razors-edge-223993
