15-03-2021||Some days back||Police encounter of a different kind||By then, another constable had joined our conversation. They wanted to know about my speciality. Almost simultaneously, they asked me how they could remain healthy. That started an impromptu discussion on healthy diet on the Madhya Marg itself, with traffic buzzing around us. I realised how tough life was for these police personnel. With long working hours in all-weather conditions, they do not have access to clean water and often have little by way of hygienic food. On some days, they have extended duty hours, and quite often skip their meals.Just then, a Sub-inspector (SI), their superior, also joined us. He proudly volunteered the information that as the in charge of his team, he treated them every day to a glass of juice and that he always carried bottles of filtered water for them. They admired his gesture but wanted my support to further their demand for a ‘party’ that evening as it was the birthday of his son. The inspector graciously called up his wife immediately and fixed up a feast for his subordinates.Our conversation soon moved to the hot topic of the year, the coronavirus. I was pleasantly surprised to know that the whole police force had been briefed adequately about it and they had had very few positive cases among them. I emphasised the need for the vaccine and all three said they would be the first ones to go for it.The SI seemed to be a friendly character and gave me details of his family and children, and how he provided for them, despite his hectic schedule. He said public perception of policemen was wrong. They were there to make a difference in their own way. Conversing with him, I realised that we often do not know or ignore the humane side of the frontline vanguards of our society.We exchanged our phone numbers, having gained a friend each.Postscript: The SI rang me a few days ago to proudly inform that he and his team had got themselves vaccinated at the first opportunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/police-encounter-of-a-different-kind-225251
