16-03-2021||The other day||Learning the corona lessons||Confused but confident, the students gave vent to their feelings and shared their observations. Man is a speck on this planet and should not brag about his achievements, was the observation of a student. All the wealth that man would gather by fair and foul means failed to save him. But the irony was that he believed that he had unlimited powers and could do anything. A tiny virus had ravaged the most developed nations in the world and brought them to their knees, depriving them of victuals, drinks, liberty and social connectivity, he added to corroborate his statement.Another student brought the virtue versus sin theory to explain why the coronavirus had visited us! The statement had a spiritual ring to it, but it also attracted censure. The debate was about to degenerate into an unnecessary controversy when a student rose to put things in a scientific perspective. Since mankind had ravaged the ecosystem for its insatiable greed, the pandemic was a direct consequence of it, he explained. Further, if it did not stop, humans would soon face an existential threat.The whole class threw its weight behind the statement of its classmate and also pledged to protect nature for itself and for posterity.Another student hailed the health and frontline workers. Elaborating her point, she said the brave community of frontline workers had risen above the petty considerations of caste, colour, creed and religion to nip the virus. They put their lives at risk to save the lives of others. Together we could take on any challenge was her observation.Another student talked about how humanity had risen to the occasion to provide succour to those who were rendered penniless during the pandemic; how the privileged took care of the underprivileged and how the blessed offered help to the unfortunate.What she tried to convey and convince her classmates was that the brotherhood of mankind could strengthen if the rich would open their purse strings for the poor.Human spirit was indomitable and could surmount every crisis was the observation of another student. No virus could beat and defeat man if he was determined to achieve victory against it. Human resilience could help overcome the stiffest challenges, he said.Listening to my young students, I had to be convinced that the coronavirus had indeed taught us invaluable lessons. We need to imbibe them better in our lives!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/learning-the-corona-lessons-225685
