19-03-2021||Weekends are always special||To bee or not to bee||Entering the garden from the small rear foot entrance, we couldn’t help but laugh as our eye caught sight of a big nozzle of lawn-sprinkling system spinning and squirting water happily, which we hadn’t seen in a long time even on non-rainy days.After taking a full round of the garden, as we were returning under a big dense tree by the bank of the seasonal rivulet, a path we usually bypass in favour of a kutcha track through a scatter of stone apple trees, a few honeybees came above our heads. I tried to fan them away with my hands, but then a few more came.Seeing me struggle with nothingness, a boy sitting over there came and gave me his thick cloth jacket, with the instruction to wrap my head and face, which I did. Instinctively, I also drifted near the very nozzle, ah, that effectively dissuaded the bees. Back home, my wife pulled out five little spears that the deluded mercenaries had left in my scalp and face, to ward off the threat, sacrificing their mortal selves in the process. Back home, four dead bodies fell out of the jacket.Being a true student of quantum physics, I believe such incidents come to deliver important messages. A few hours later, I realised my body was activated to a higher level of consciousness. It felt strengthened by the bee stings and I felt more alive to myself. Perhaps it is a sense of insecurity, the lack of faith that makes their limbs feeble, abdomens round and tails full of poison. And don’t we see this phenomenon in humans also? Ah! So this was the message the hot bee massage happened to deliver.The little beings shoot off in different directions from their colony with sunrise, for nectar of flowers that prefer to remain grounded and synthesise it directly from air, water, earth and sunlight for their unfolding in space. Poor bees caught in maya (illusion) fly miles for nectar everyday and die within weeks, because of too much whirring. Yet, I do believe the four bees that made the supreme sacrifice for the Queen, and ended up saving me instead, got a better world in return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/to-bee-or-not-to-bee-227341
