20-03-2021||If at all you have visited an eye clinic with some problem||The ordeal of a long wait||Recently, I had a date with an eye doctor. When I prepared myself to visit him, my son, on his work-from-home duty, volunteered to drive me to the clinic. It was a working day for him, but he had arranged a break for a couple of hours to accompany me.At the clinic, the time for administering the eye drops arrived. I looked upwards as the nurse filled my eyes with the liquid with deftness. My son looked with curiosity and asked me after the nurse had left how long I had to wait sitting there with my eyes shut. When I said it could take half an hour, he let out a sigh and resignedly walked up to the adjoining terrace to attend to an incoming call.After some time, he came back, and as he occupied the seat near me, asked, ‘How long?’ By this time, I was sure he was getting bored as I sat with my eyes closed. ‘A little longer,’ I said and thought of starting a conversation on a new subject to keep his mind occupied.Suddenly, my mind harked back to something similar I had experienced five decades ago. My father had taken me to an eye doctor at a government hospital to check my deteriorating vision. For an impatient schoolboy, the requirement of sitting through a long period with eyes shut was a real torture.Every now and then, I would ask my father, ‘How much longer?’ My father would try his best to pacify me with words like, ‘It’s almost time’, ‘Just a bit longer’, ‘The doctor will ask for you any moment after seeing another patient’, and so on.Finally, I complained, ‘The doctor has probably forgotten us, why don’t you go and remind him that we are waiting.’ Father asked me to sit still as he walked away supposedly to remind the doctor of us. He came back after a while, announcing that it was time for me to be examined, and guided me to the doctor's chamber, much to my relief.Now, as I sat there with my son, waiting for the doctor’s call, the connect with the past was obvious. Before long, the nurse called out my name, abruptly ending my rumination, and a relaxed son guided his father into the doctor’s chamber.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-ordeal-of-a-long-wait-227707
