01 June 2020||New Delhi,||Stay more vigilant than ever against COVID-19 threat: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Indians to stay more vigilant than ever against the threat of COVID-19, a day after the Centre notified a phased opening up of the economy, termed Unlock 1.0. Mr. Modi was addressing the nation via his monthly radio broadcast Mann ki Baat on Sunday. “We should not be careless in our fight against corona. We have to continue to follow social distancing and other protocols as there is no vaccine, or even precedents, on how to combat the disease,” he said. On Sunday, the country registered 8,562 new cases and 219 deaths. This takes the total number of cases to 1,90,531 and fatalities to 5,400, according to the State Health Departments. Under the Ministry of Home Affairs’ orders, strict lockdown of the kind that prevailed since March 25 will be limited to containment zones — areas sealed because of a large number of COVID-19 cases — at least till June 30. ‘Humanitarian crisis’ The Prime Minister also spoke of the large humanitarian crisis over inter-State workers, who he said had faced the worst of the pain during this period. “It has also brought to the fore the vulnerability of our eastern States, whose labour has contributed to building our country and who have the potential otherwise to be the economic engine of the country. There are many lessons to be learnt from this situation to improve our future. Many have already been taken to heart by some States. Some are setting up Migrant Commissions, others are mapping skills of the workers, some are encouraging start-ups,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stay-more-vigilant-than-ever-against-covid-19-threat-modi/article31718708.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amendment on new map tabled in Nepal parliament||The government of Nepal on Sunday tabled the crucial Constitution Amendment Bill to formalise the country’s new map, which claims parts of India as its territory. The Bill was tabled by Nepal’s Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe even as Nepal’s Madhesi parties refused to welcome the Bill as of now. Meanwhile, there was high drama on the streets with reports that senior diplomats wanted to reach the Parliament to witness the historic session. Strategic sliver The Constitution Second Amendment Bill will change the Schedule 3 of the Nepalese Constitution and replace the existing map with the map that was unveiled on May 20. The new map depicts the sliver of strategically important land covering Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani as part of Nepal. The area is currently part of Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand but Nepal has disputed the Indian position based on historical documents and bilateral understanding. Ms. Tumbahangphe said the Coat of Arms of Nepal will be altered after the amendment is passed as it will depict the new map. The tabling of the amendment Bill came a day after the chief Opposition, the Nepali Congress, extended support to Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s government, which ensured that the Bill will get the required two-thirds majority in the Parliament. The process is expected to take around a week.  Political support  Former Foreign Secretary of Nepal Madhu Raman Acharya said the amendment is bound to sail through, given the unanimity among major political parties. “It’s just a matter of time as all sides are united that Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh belong to Nepal and the map needs to show the correct territory of of our country,” said Mr. Acharya, speaking to The Hindu on the phone. However, despite Mr. Acharya’s claim of support from “all sides”, the Parliament showed the deep division within Nepal’s polity as the parties from the plains, or the Madhes region, appeared less than enthusiastic about the new map, which has emerged as an emotive issue among a majority of the people. Samajbadi Party leader Upendra Yadav said his party, which has been at the forefront of struggle for Madhesis’ rights, has not taken a clear stand on the map. “We have not decided to support or oppose the amendment Bill till now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amendment-on-new-map-tabled-in-nepal-parliament/article31718701.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Two die, 110 new cases in State||The State continued to register COVID-19 positive cases and deaths even as the fourth phase of lockdown came to an end on Sunday, and most of the activities resumed outside the containment zones. In the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the State registered 110 new cases and two deaths. Of the new cases, 98 were locals, which was the highest single-day spike since detection of the first case in March. The other 12 cases were migrant returnees. The tally of cases, therefore, went up to 3, 571. The toll climbed to 62, with one fatality each in Krishna and Chittoor districts, as per the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Excluding the cases of migrant and foreign returnees, the tally was put at 3,042. 51 recover Meanwhile, 51 patients, who included 43 locals and eight migrant returnees, recovered and were discharged from hospitals. With this, the total number of recovered patients went up to 2,332, which was 62.5% of the total positive cases. The number of active cases was put at 1,177. A total of 9,370 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases pertaining to migrant returnees was 418. The figure in respect of foreign returnees stood at 111. During the period from May 1 to 31, which saw two phases of lockdown, the State had witnessed 1,639 cases, which was 45.9% of the total cases reported in 81 days since March 12, the day when the first case was reported in the State. A look at the daily new cases (excluding foreign and migrant returnee cases) reported during the month revealed that, on an average, 52.8 cases were reported per day. Also, an average of one death per day was registered. More than half of the total number deaths were witnessed in the past month. The positivity rate among the samples tested stood at 0.96% and the mortality rate at 1.74%. The test per million ratio increased to 6, 980, which was the highest in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-die-110-new-cases-in-state/article31718703.ece
01 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizos laud Bihar people’s kindness||The Mizo community has lauded the gesture of villagers in Bihar who provided fruits and prepared food for people of the Northeast, mostly from Mizoram, on a stationary train near Begusarai. This came a week after a special train carrying 1,300 people home to four northeastern States was attacked in Bihar’s Danapur by people wanting to get in. Videos of locals trooping in and handing out packets and baskets containing food to passengers were widely shared on social media by Mizos and others. Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted about the gesture. “Few days after stranded Mizos offered their food to flood-affected victims on their way back, a brief halt of their Shramik Special Train at Begusarai, Bihar, witnessed good Samaritans offering them food in return! Goodness for goodness. India is beautiful when flooded with love,” he wrote. The CM’s tweet was appreciated by people in Mizoram and Bihar alike. “Totally melt my heart. This is the India I know and love. God bless you all for your kindness to our brothers and sisters. Jai Hind!,” wrote Zampuii from Mizoram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mizos-laud-bihar-peoples-kindness/article31718919.ece
01 June 2020||Kozhikode/ Thiruvananthapuram,||One more COVID death in State||A 55-year-old woman from Mavoor in Kozhikode district undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital died on Sunday night. According to a medical bulletin from the hospital, the patient had returned from Riyadh and was admitted on May 25. She had hypertension and coronary artery disease. She tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and was shifted to the intensive care unit on May 28. She was put on ventilator support the next day and supportive treatment was given. Meanwhile, the State continued its trend of an exponential increase in cases with 61 more testing positive on Sunday. The total caseload of the State now stands at 1,269. Of the 61 new cases, 20 were found in people who had returned from abroad, while 37 cases were people who had returned from other States. Two persons each in Kollam and Palakkad were believed to have contracted the disease from known/unknown sources of infection. Palakkad district accounted for 12 cases, Kasaragod (10), Kannur (7), Kollam and Alappuzha (6 each), Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta (4 each), Thrissur, Malappuram, Wayanad (3 each), Kozhikode (2) and Ernakulam (1). On Sunday, 15 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease. The total number of active cases in the State now stands at 669. So far, 590 persons have recovered from the disease. The State has put a total of 1,34,654 persons on COVID-19 surveillance across districts. Of these, 1,33,413 are on home or institutional quarantine, while 1,241 persons who showed symptoms have been admitted to various hospitals. On Sunday, the number of new admissions was 208. A Health Department release said in the last 24 hours, the State had tested 3,099 samples. The cumulative number of samples tested stands at 67,371. Ten more regions in Kasaragod, Kannur and Kollam districts entered the hotspots list, taking the total to 116.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-covid-death-in-state/article31719050.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,||More relaxations as Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June-end||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday extended the COVID-19 lockdown till June 30, but announced significant relaxations from June 1 while splitting the State into eight zones for the purpose of resumption of public transport. Bus services ( see page 2 ) will be resumed in a limited way from Monday except in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. Places of worship, the hill stations in the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal and Yercaud, malls, cinemas, amusement parks, beaches, auditoriums, resorts, lodges, zoos, museums and the like would remain closed for the public and tourists. No large congregations would be permitted and prohibitory orders would remain in force till the month-end. Educational institutions would not be reopened and Metro and EMU services would remain suspended. No relaxations have been offered to COVID-19 containment zones. While rental vehicles, taxis and autorickshaws would be allowed to ply with a limit of three and two passengers, respectively, from June 1, restaurants and tea shops would be permitted to offer dine-in services with 50% seating capacity from June 8, but without the use of air-conditioners. Across Tamil Nadu, groceries and provision stores would be able to operate between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Showrooms, including textile and jewellery outlets, can function with 50% staff, and allow only five customers in at a time. Sports complexes and stadia can be opened, but without spectators. Besides, the State has withdrawn its decision to “temporarily” increase bus fares by 50%.  For Chennai  In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said that in the Greater Chennai Police limits, all private companies would be allowed to function with 50% staff; IT and ITeS firms can operate with company-provided transport at 20% strength, subject to a maximum of 40 persons. Barber shops, salons, spas and beauty parlours can operate without air-conditioning and in line with the standard operating procedures. For the rest of T.N. In non-containment areas outside Chennai, industries, IT and ITeS firms are allowed to operate with 100% staff. “However, work-from-home option is to be encouraged for 20% staff,” Mr. Palaniswami said. All private establishments have been allowed to operate with 100% staff with the work-from-home option “encouraged to the extent possible”. “Tasmac (liquor outlets) and other shops can operate between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m.,” the Chief Minister said. Besides, e-commerce firms will be permitted to deliver even non-essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-relaxations-as-tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-june-end/article31718802.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||199 COVID cases, 5 more deaths reported in TS||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana shot up sharply as 199 samples tested positive for coronavirus from Saturday evening to Sunday evening. With each passing day, the highest cases in a day are shooting up. From March 2 to May 31, the highest number of cases in a day is 199, recorded on Sunday, followed by 169 cases on May 29. Five more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 82. Officials from the State Health department have been saying that the positive cases are set to increase as movement of people has increased. Of the 199 new cases, 196 are among people from the State, and the rest three are of migrants. Out of the 196 local cases, 122 are from GHMC and 40 from Rangareddy. Both the districts contribute 82% of new cases. Medchal recorded 10 cases, nine in Khammam, three each in Mahabubnagar, Jagtial, and Medak, two in Warangal Urban, one each in Suryapet, Nirmal, Yadadri and Jangaon. Till May 31— end of fourth phase of lockdown — a total of 2698 cases were recorded. Out of it, 1188 are active cases, 1428 were discharged, and 82 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/199-covid-cases-5-more-deaths-reported-in-ts/article31718977.ece
01 June 2020||Washington,||SpaceX’s spacecraft successfully docks with ISS||SpaceX’s Dragon spacecraft with two NASA astronauts on Sunday successfully docked with the International Space Station (ISS) after a historic launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, marking the dawn of a new age in commercial space travel. Elon Musk’s SpaceX company confirmed the successful docking of NASA astronauts Bob Behnken, 49, and Doug Hurley, 53, with the ISS, the orbiting laboratory. “Docking confirmed — Crew Dragon has arrived at the @space_station!” the California-headquartered company announced on Twitter. NASA also took to Twitter to announce the docking. The docking took place 19 hours after a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket blasted off from the Kennedy Space Center. The crew will be welcomed aboard the ISS, where they will become members of the Expedition 63 crew, which includes NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy. The liftoff also assumes significance as it marks the launch of humans into orbit from the U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade. The SpaceX Crew Dragon spacecraft, carrying astronauts Behnken and Hurley, lifted off on Saturday atop the company’s Falcon 9 rocket from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. With the liftoff, SpaceX became the first private company to launch people into the orbit, a feat achieved previously by only three governments: the U.S., Russia and China. The launch, postponed early this week due to inclement weather, gave Americans something to cheer about as in the last three months they have lost over 1,00,000 of their countrymen due to the COVID-19 that has brought the economy to its knees. More than 40 million people have lost jobs. Top U.S. leadership including President Donald Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, and thousands of curious Americans had gathered to watch the launch live on a bright Sunday afternoon. Congratulating Mr. Musk, NASA and the astronauts, Mr. Trump described the launch day as a great day for the country. The President said he spoke with Mr. Musk, whom he called one of the “great brains”. He also spoke with the two NASA astronauts prior to the takeoff. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said “Launch America is the first big step on our roadmap to the Moon for Artemis”. NASA’s Artemis programme, the U.S. initiative to explore more of the lunar surface, aims to land the first woman and next man on the Moon by 2024. “This is a dream come true for me and everyone at SpaceX, said the CEO of Tesla. “It is the culmination of an incredible amount of work by the SpaceX team, by NASA and by a number of other partners,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spacexs-spacecraft-successfully-docks-with-iss/article31718699.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||One killed as rival groups fight pitched battle||In a scene that looked straight out of the movies based on Vijayawada’s ‘rowdy elements’, two groups holding machetes, sickles and sticks clashed under the Patamata police station limits leading to the death of a group leader and critical injuries to his counterpart. Several others also sustained severe injuries and are undergoing treatment. The videos of the clash showing dozens of youth involved in it went viral on social media on Sunday. The clash between the groups in an open area amidst residences in Sanath Nagar on Saturday evening initially appeared to be a fight between student groups. Police investigation revealed that the clash was between two groups led by Thota Sandeep and Manikanta alias KTM Pandu, who were involved in an alleged ‘settlement’ regarding an apartment at Yanamalakuduru. Mr. Sandeep succumbed to the injuries on Sunday evening. Police identified at least 20 persons involved in the fight. Special teams were formed to trace the others involved, besides arresting those identified. Sequence of events DCP (Law & Order) V. Harshavardhan Raju told the media that the issue over personal supremacy between two persons turned into a rivalry between two groups. Manikanta and Sandeep knew each other since long and two days ago they took part in a meeting with a person regarding the apartment and everything was normal then. Later, they had arguments over the phone, and Sandeep, accompanied by his men, visited Manikanta’s house late in the night when the latter was not present. The following day, Manikanta and his men visited Sandeep’s iron and steel store when the latter was not present, Mr. Raju said. Both gangs then went for a confrontation, which was videographed on a phone. Serious action “This is being seen as a serious issue. The city has not seen such clashes in the recent past. History sheets will be opened on all the persons involved,” Mr. Harshavardhan said. A case of rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder has been registered by the police on Saturday and it was altered to a case of murder following the death of Sandeep. A native of Kanuru, Sandeep is survived by his wife and a child. The condition of Mr. Manikanta is critical and is being treated at a government hospital, according to reports. Members involved in the clash reportedly included students and history-sheeters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-as-rival-groups-fight-pitched-battle/article31718705.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Intolerance against judiciary is growing’||Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said there was a growing intolerance against the judiciary fuelled by the social media. He said imputations were being made against judges for their decisions. Damage was done to the judicial institution if the tendency to criticise crossed certain lines. “Criticism is also information but boundaries need to be made or if such criticism becomes part of misinformation... This is not good for the system... If you mistrust every system, then you do not have a system and all you have is anarchy,” Justice Kaul said. He said this during an online lecture on Sunday on ‘Freedom of Speech in times of COVID-19 - Fake news and misinformation’ organised by the MBA Academy, Madras Bar Association. The event saw the participation of S. Parthasarathy, chairman of the MBA Academy, and M. Baskar, secretary of the Madras Bar Association. Justice Kaul was part of the Bench which recently took suo motu cognisance of the migrant workers’ crisis. In a recent hearing of the case, the Bench saw Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submit how “a handful of people give certificates to judges of neutrality only if judges abuse the Executive!” The judge said it was a struggle to regulate social media without restricting free speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/intolerance-against-judiciary-is-growing/article31718710.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Cases breach 1,000-mark||Tamil Nadu on Sunday saw 1,149 patients testing positive for COVID-19 – breaching the 1,000-mark in a day for the first time – taking the tally to 22,333. Chennai accounted for 804 of the new patients. While the State recorded 13 deaths, 757 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases stood at 9,400, including 6,710 persons admitted to isolation wards. The new cases included 95 persons who returned from abroad and other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-breach-1000-mark/article31718801.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan High Commission staffers held for spying||Two visa assistants of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi have been held by the Delhi Police Special Cell for allegedly indulging in espionage activities. The government has declared both officialspersona non gratafor indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within 24 hours, said the Ministry of External Affairs. A senior police officer said that the officials were caught red-handed indulging in espionage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistan-high-commission-staffers-held-for-spying/article31718923.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting ready to sail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/getting-ready-to-sail/article31718807.ece
01 June 2020||Srinagar,||2 militants escape from encounter site||At least two trapped militants managed to break a security cordon and escape from an encounter site in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. A police official said the militants were engaged in a brief gunfight in south Kashmir’s Posh-Kreeri area in Anantnag in a pre-dawn cordon-and-search operation of the Army, the Central Reserve Police Force and the State police. “A firefight broke out around 2 a.m. The operation was launched after a specific tip-off and the militants were spotted too. However, by the time first light of day broke, there was a lull from the militants’ side. Later, no contact was established with them. It seems the militants managed to break the cordon,” the police said. Hectic search No bodies or weapons were recovered from the encounter site despite hectic search operations by the personnel, the police added. Internet services, which were snapped during the operation as part of precautionary measures, were restored as soon as it was called off by the security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-militants-escape-from-encounter-site/article31718702.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Indefinite lockdown is more harmful’||A group of public health experts, two of whom are part of a government-constituted advisory committee to contain the pandemic, has said that enforcing the lockdown “indefinitely” would be too disruptive and “overtake lives saved due to the lockdown mediated slowing of the COVID-19 progression”. “Had the migrant persons been allowed to go home at the beginning of the epidemic when the disease spread was very low, the current situation could have been avoided. They are now taking infection to every corner of the country; mostly to rural and peri-urban areas, in districts with relatively weak public health systems,” says the letter jointly authored by the Indian Public Health Association, the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and the Indian Association of Epidemiologists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indefinite-lockdown-is-more-harmful/article31718706.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ramesh Kumar likely to file contempt plea in High Court||N. Ramesh Kumar, who was ordered to be restored as the Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner by the High Court, has decided to file a contempt petition against the State government’s alleged violation of the judgment on the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance (No.5 of 2020), a statement, purportedly issued by him to the media, said here on Sunday. Mr. Ramesh Kumar objected to the issues raised by Advocate General S. Sriram, and insisted that the government’s actions amounted to robbing the autonomy of the constitutional body and questioning the very integrity of the institution. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said there was no ambiguity in the High Court judgment, which rendered the ordinance and the consequential GOs unconstitutional, and resulted in his restoration as the SEC. He claimed that his five-year term as SEC would come to an end on March 31, 2021. The Advocate General told the media on Saturday that Mr. Ramesh Kumar could not make self-restoration as SEC and there were other constitutional issues involved in the entire episode, which prompted the government to approach the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ramesh-kumar-may-file-contempt-plea/article31718652.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases in Delhi near 20,000 mark||The Capital registered 1,295 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 19,844 on Sunday. This is the highest single-day jump in cases so far and the fourth day in a row that Delhi has seen over 1,000 cases. Also, 57 deaths were added to the official toll, taking the total to 473.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-near-20000-mark/article31718921.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cyclone brewing in Arabian Sea||The India Meteorological Department has forecast a cyclone in the Arabian Sea that is likely to move towards Gujarat and Maharashtra by June 3. Currently, the storm in the Arabian Sea has been classified as a “low pressure area”. While such storms are common at this time of the year, their path can have a bearing on the progress of the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-brewing-in-arabian-sea/article31718922.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Toll crosses 50 in Karnataka||The total number of deaths in the State due to COVID-19 crossed the 50-mark on Sunday even as Karnataka reported 299 fresh cases — the highest for a day so far. Two new deaths were confirmed. A media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that one of the deceased was a 50-year-old resident of Raichur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-toll-crosses-50-in-karnataka/article31718742.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,||GO on institutional quarantine issued||Institutional quarantine for seven days will now be mandatory for asymptomatic passengers coming from only Maharashtra. An order issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare states that those coming from Maharashtra will have to undergo the institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/go-on-institutional-quarantine-issued/article31718741.ece
01 June 2020||Chennai,||Lockdown hits production in prison units||The Tamil Nadu prison industry, one of the highest profit-making revenue models among State prisons in the country, has been hit by COVID-19 infection among inmates and the continuing lockdown. Units in the Puzhal jail were shut after 30 convicts tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-hits-production-in-prison-units/article31718800.ece
01 June 2020||Chennai,||E-pass must for travel between zones: Railway||With Tamil Nadu classifying the State into eight zones, Southern Railway on Sunday said train passengers travelling from one zone to another will require an e-pass, upon arrival. People must register online and obtain an e-pass, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-pass-must-for-travel-between-zones-railway/article31718803.ece
01 June 2020||Chennai,||Testing mandatory for people from Chennai||With Tamil Nadu easing lockdown relaxations from Monday, COVID-19 testing will become mandatory for anyone travelling from Chennai to other districts, irrespective of symptoms, as per the Health Department guidelines issued on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/testing-mandatory-for-people-from-chennai/article31718805.ece
01 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cases soar in southern States||Five more COVID-19 patients died in Telangana, taking the toll to 82, while there were two deaths in Karnataka on Sunday. One woman succumbed to the disease in Kerala. The fatality in Kerala was that of a 55-year-old woman from Mavoor in Kozhikode district, who was under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital. A hospital bulletin said the patient had returned from Riyadh and was admitted on May 25. She had hypertension and coronary artery disease and tested positive for the virus. She was shifted to the intensive care unit on May 28. The trend of a steady increase in COVID-19 cases in Kerala continued on Sunday, with 61 more testing positive. The total case load of the State was 1,269. Of the new cases, 20 were those who had returned from abroad, while 37 had come from other States. Two persons each in Kollam and Palakkad contracted the disease from known/unknown sources of infection. Palakkad district accounted for 12 cases, Kasaragod (10), Kannur (7), Kollam and Alappuzha (6 each), Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta (4 each), Thrissur, Malappuram, Wayanad (3 each), Kozhikode (2) and Ernakulam (1). On Sunday, 15 persons were reported to have recovered. The total number of active cases stood at 670. So far, 590 persons had recovered. Kerala had 1,34,654 persons on COVID-19 surveillance across districts. Of these, 1,33,413 were on home or institutional quarantine, while 1,241 who showed symptoms were in hospitals. On Sunday, the number of new admissions was 208. The cumulative samples tested was 67,371. Also, as part of sentinel surveillance, 12,506 random samples were tested from select groups, of which 11,604 were negative. The total number of deaths in Karnataka due to COVID-19 crossed the 50 mark on Sunday while the State reported 299 fresh cases, the highest for a day. Two patients passed away on Friday. A Department of Health bulletin said a 50-year-old man from Raichur district who had returned from Maharashtra on May 21 was quarantined. He had severe acute respiratory illness, severe pneumonia, sepsis and respiratory failure and died on Friday. Another 75-year-old male patient from Bidar district had fever and breathlessness and hypertension. He was admitted on May 18 to a private hospital and died on May 29 at his residence. The total COVID-19-related deaths stood at 51, while two patients died due to non-COVID-19 causes. Meanwhile, the total number cases reported on Sunday was 299, the highest for a single day. Of the new cases, 255 were from other States and seven had a history of international travel.  Three health workers posted to COVID-19 isolation ward in Davangere tested positive.  The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana shot up as 199 samples tested positive. The Health department said 196 were local people, and three were migrants. Of new cases,122 were from Greater Hyderabad. Ten cases were from Medchal, nine in Khammam, three each in Mahabubnagar, Jagtial, and Medak, two in Warangal Urban, one each in Suryapet, Nirmal, Yadadri and Jangaon. Till May 31 a total of 2,698 cases were recorded, of which 1188 were active, 1428 were discharged, and 82 people died. Spike in cases Tamil Nadu on Sunday saw 1,149 patients including four babies testing positive for COVID-19 – breaching the 1,000 mark in a day for the first time – and taking the tally to 22,333. While the State recorded 13 deaths, Chennai accounted for 804 new patients and 757 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases stood at 9,400 including 6,710 persons admitted to isolation wards. The new cases included 95 persons who returned from abroad and other States.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ten-people-succumb-to-virus-cases-soar-in-southern-states/article31718668.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||Home Ministry gave 94 orders in 68 days||In the 68 days since the nationwide lockdown was imposed to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Home Ministry on an average, issued 1.3 orders a day. As on Sunday, as many as 94 orders, guidelines, addenda and letters have been issued by the Ministry to the States pertaining to the lockdown. 2005 Act The orders were issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, invoked for the first time in the country since the legislation was drafted after the tsunami in 2004. The Act also, for the first time, introduced a legal framework for disaster management in the country, with the Ministry being the nodal Ministry. Under the Act, the States and district authorities can frame their own rules on the basis of broad guidelines issued by the Ministry. On Saturday, it issued another set of guidelines lifting most of the restrictions imposed since March 24 and restricted strict implementation of lockdown measures till June 30 to containment zones where multiple cases have been reported. The lockdown first imposed on March 24 was extended four times. The fifth phase has been renamed Unlock 1.0 to open up economic activities even as more than 1.75 lakh cases and around 4,900 deaths were reported till Sunday. Calls to control rooms The Ministry had also started three control rooms to monitor the complaints received from States and to resolve the migrant crisis. As all modes of public transport were suspended, thousands of migrants have been walking back several hundred kilometres to reach home. A senior Ministry official said the helplines in the control room had been getting around 600 calls daily in the initial days but gradually the number had come down. After over 50 days into the extended lockdown, the Railways started running Shramik Special trains for the migrant workers. Meanwhile, the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) are yet to receive orders from the Ministry on what comprises swadeshi or indigenous products. On May 13, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had announced that CAPF canteens would sell onlyswadeshigoods from June 1. A government official said the Commerce Ministry was yet to issue the guidelines defining swadeshi products, though the scheme is to be implemented from June 1. The canteens sell many daily-use products at a subsidised rate to around 10 lakh personnel, their families and those retired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-gave-94-orders-in-68-days/article31718679.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||Friend turned foe: the Oli problem||With his decision to push through a Constitutional amendment to change Nepal’s official map to include parts of Indian territory that have been in dispute, Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has proven the worst fears of many in South Block, who have worried for some years about Mr. Oli’s “nationalist politics” that translates in Nepal to an “anti-India” stance. The irony, say diplomats, is that the perception of Mr. Oli as anti-India only goes back about five years. “Prior to 2015, if you were to ask which Nepalese politician had worked most consistently towards strengthening ties with India, the answer would be K.P. Sharma Oli,” explains former Ambassador to Nepal Rakesh Sood. In 1996, for example, Mr. Oli split from his own party, the Communist Party of Nepal’s Unified Maoist-Leninist (CPN-UML) faction, in order to support the Nepal-India agreement over the Mahakali river water sharing treaty. As Home Minister of Nepal, diplomats recount how he cooperated with Indian authorities to pursue wanted criminals who had crossed over the open border between India and Nepal. “That [perception] changed in 2015,” says Mr. Sood, referring to the events that led up to the promulgation of the Nepali Constitution, one that India felt was unfair to Madhesis living in the south and unrepresentative of India’s interests in the country. Mr. Oli was a key mover for the Constitution, and he expected to take over as Prime Minister in place of the Nepali Congress leader Sushil Koirala, once it had been adopted. At the last moment however, Mr. Koirala decided to challenge Mr. Oli to an election in Parliament, a decision many in Kathmandu believed was prompted by India. Once elected, Mr. Oli faced the blockade at the India-Nepal border that saw supplies into landlocked Nepal stopped on the Indian side for months. “That’s when China stepped in for Mr. Oli,” says Nepali author Sujeev Shakya, referring to an eight-point transit and transport facilitation agreement Mr. Oli signed with Beijing in March 2016. Four months later, the Communist Party faction led by Prachanda, as former Nepal PM Pushpa Kamal Dahal is known, pulled support from his government, something for which Mr. Oli blamed New Delhi. A year later, Mr. Oli had sprung back, this time with a unified Communist Party that won a historic two-thirds of the seats in Parliament in the December 2017 elections, after running on an anti-India poll plank. New map With the Opposition subdued, Madhesi activists co-opted or jailed, and a largely uncritical media, Mr. Oli coasted along for the first two years, until he faced protests in Kathmandu last year over India’s new political map of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. As he faced a possible coup within his own party’s standing committee meeting in May, analysts say his tone grew shriller. “For PM Oli, this [nationalistic plank] is also a legacy building exercise. The Nepali Congress will always be credited with bringing democracy to Nepal and the monarchy was brought down by Prachanda,” says former Ambassador to Nepal Manjeev Singh Puri, who retired just after the Kalapani issue erupted last year. ‘Strategic autonomy’ India has also hardened its position with Mr. Oli. Despite PM Modi agreeing in 2014 that the Foreign Secretaries would meet on the Kalapani and Susta disputes, no meeting on the disputes has been held in six years. The government dismissed Mr. Oli’s demand to release the report of an Eminent Persons Group (EPG) that was due to suggest some solutions on the border issues. In December, New Delhi cancelled a visit by Mr. Oli’s envoy, and Nepal’s Ambassador to Delhi has not had a meeting scheduled by the Ministry of External Affairs for months, despite requests. In that sense, Mr. Oli’s latest move on the maps maybe a fait accompli . The ball is in New Delhi’s court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/friend-turned-foe-the-oli-problem/article31718689.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cyclone brewing in Arabian Sea||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a cyclone in the Arabian Sea that is likely to move towards Gujarat and Maharashtra by June 3. While such storms are common at this time of the year, their path can have a bearing on the progress of the monsoon. The IMD has indicated that the monsoon is likely to set in over Kerala early this week, though other agencies say it has already set in. Low pressure area Currently, the storm in the Arabian Sea has been classified as a “low pressure area”. It is the first step in a four-rung classification system of increasing intensity that culminates in a “cyclonic storm”. As of now, meteorologists expect it to move almost parallel to the West Coast and then by Wednesday take a turn and make landfall in either Gujarat or Maharashtra. Because the onset of the monsoon over Kerala is imminent, meteorologists say that such a track could, in the worst case, stall it. “If the storm stays close to the coast, it could help push the monsoon related circulation further up along the coast. However, if it turns towards Oman it could suck away moisture and winds,” said D.S. Pai, head of Climate Research and Services, National Climate Centre, IMD. If the cyclone turns towards the mainland it would, other than the associated destruction, stall the monsoon. Last year, Cyclone Vayu, which formed in the Arabian Sea, stalled the monsoon after it entered Kerala on June 8. Conditions for the monsoon to enter Kerala by the second of June were becoming conducive, said Mr. Pai. “Most of the criteria [for declaring monsoon] were being met,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyclone-brewing-in-arabian-sea/article31718691.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Migrant labourers are the most disenfranchised invisible citizens’||Political scientist Ashwani Kumar, whose forthcoming co-edited book titled Migration and Mobility is to be out soon, speaks on migration, inter-State workers and amendment to the Inter-State Migrant Workers Act, 1979.  The COVID-19 crisis for India has also become a humanitarian one, involving inter-State migrants on return journeys home racked by pain and suffering and no surety of any income going ahead. Could we have an idea about the contours of this migration? There is a wealth of theoretical and empirical literature on the reasons behind short-term seasonal and circular migratory flows in India. For a majority of migrant labourers, migration is either a livelihood accumulation strategy or survival risk reducing strategy whichever way we define the nature of migration. The migration studies also confirm that the migrant labourers are the most exploited and also disenfranchised invisible citizens of contemporary India. It’s shocking that those who build fantasy cities not only can’t own a home of their own but also can’t vote in elections and treated like almost ‘as second-class citizens’. This double tragedy of migrant life is ironically further exploited by sons of soil politicians in various States of India. According to the Census of India, 2011, more than 450 million Indians (37%) are internal migrants who change their residence within a country’s national borders. About 30% of the migrants are youth aged 15-29 years and another 15 million are children. Women migrants are less represented in regular jobs and more likely to be self-employed than non-migrant women. Domestic work has emerged as an important occupation for migrant women and girls. Facing relentless bouts of gender discrimination at home, and on the farms as wage workers, these migrant women are forced into various forms of servitude in the domestic spaces of affluent city dwellers. Is there more granular data on migration? Prominent migration scholars like Priya Deshingkar suggest that around two-thirds of internal migrants are concentrated in rural areas, while around one-third are concentrated in urban areas in India. Males dominate the inter-State and inter-district streams of migration, while females dominate the intra-district stream of migration. Studies suggest that household members were found to migrate in various combinations — men only, women only, men and women, and men, women and children. Described as ‘footloose workers’ in migration studies, about 100 millions of workers/labourers circulate from place to place never with the intention to settle down, but to return to their native villages and towns once a job is completed or when a working season comes to an end. In between migration and settlement for employment and livelihoods, these footloose army of migrants are often denied welfare rights in their destination place and imposed debilitating transaction costs in case they decided to negotiate their citizenship rights. What is the distribution in terms of caste and gender deprivation and type of work that migrants move home to do? Research studies suggest that Scheduled Tribes are several times more likely to migrate compared with upper castes, followed closely by the Scheduled Castes who are more likely to migrate than OBCs, and then by Backward Castes (BCs) who are more likely to migrate. Upper caste households with some assets migrate for better opportunities but not for coping strategy. Short-term migrants are engaged mostly as casual labour and mostly remain invisible and often face exploitative labour practices. Such migrants are often found as construction workers, brick kiln workers, auto drivers, rickshaw pullers, sex workers, private security guards, household help, cab drivers, dabbawalas , presswalas , courier workers, beauty parlour workers, plantation workers etc. Field studies by leading migration scholar R.B. Bhagat indicate that the lead source States of internal migrants are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu, whereas key destination areas are Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and Karnataka. According to a UNESCO study, Surat at 58% has the highest percentage of migrant labour population in India, while the percentage of migrant population is 43% for Mumbai and Delhi. Internal migration has become so ubiquitous that Kerala, long known for “Kerala model” of human development and land of expatriates, has embarrassingly become a ‘rainbow country’ of migrants. Pouring mainly from West Bengal, Tripura, Assam and Maharashtra, domestic migrants are now estimated at 25 lakh in Kerala. Micro studies conducted by research institutions and NGOs suggest that around 80 million short-term migrants are working in India, including: 40 million in the construction industry, 20 million domestic workers, 7 million sex workers and around 12 million who work in illegal mines. There are calls for the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service), Act, 1979, to be amended to respond to the massive changes since then and to be more effective. What are the amendments you would suggest? The Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 is largely a regulatory law failing to incorporate welfare rights of the migrant labourers. The most urgent revision is to introduce a National Migrant Workers Commission at the Central level backed up by State level Migrant Workers Commissions. Also, we need to expand the definition of migrant labourer and include next generation skills like IT, mobile repair, financial services related works. Also, the Act needs to include provisions for State-supported skill training services for migrant labourers. A long pending issue is portability of migrant workers’ voting rights. The Election Commission of India is already working, so time has come to empower migrant workers so that they gather better bargaining power and political voice in the system. Other laws relating to workers must be synergised with the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act. For instance, the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment And Conditions of Services) Act, 1996 should be integrated into the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act. And it needs to be implemented by the Secretary of the Migrant Workers Commission. In this digital age, we must stress more digital administrative techniques such as smart cards and leverage Jam — Jandhan/Aadhaar/mobile payment infrastructure for portability of all. Another urgent issue is portability of the public distribution system (PDS) for migrant labourers and also allowing migrant labourers to use their NREGA job cards in any part of the country. This portability of NREGA will be a great relief, if any migrant labourer is in crisis like the pandemic, he or she can take up NREGA work at the destination site rather than returning home.  Short-term migrants are engaged mostly as casual labour and often face exploitative labour practices||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-labourers-are-the-most-disenfranchised-invisible-citizens/article31718693.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre trying to browbeat the courts’||Responding to Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta’s statement in the Supreme Court that the “High Courts are running a parallel government”, Congress leader and former Law Minister Kapil Sibal on Sunday accused the Central government of attempting to “browbeat” the courts. Addressing a press conference through a video link, Mr. Sibal said that Mr. Mehta’s statement was not a personal opinion, but reflected the government’s stand on the issue. Mr. Mehta had made this statement on Thursday in the Supreme Court. “I wonder if this is meant to browbeat the courts. It is certainly a very arrogant attitude that should not be taken and should not be articulated in this fashion,” Mr. Sibal said. He accused the Central government of interfering with the functioning of the judiciary. “The government has, in the past, displayed this kind of arrogance. We have known of the fact that Justice Muralidhar was told at one point in time that there would be ‘consequences’. Ultimately, he was transferred to Chandigarh. Similarly, Justice Qureshi, who was meant to be the Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court, is now the Chief Justice of Tripura because the government apparently had certain misgivings,” Mr. Sibal said. ‘Should take cognisance’ The courts should take cognisance of these comments, he added. “Unless the courts are alive to what is happening on the ground and render judgments, these kind of attacks that are not conducive to a democratic environment will continue,” the former Law Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-trying-to-browbeat-the-courts/article31718674.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Govt. doesn’t have data on migrants’||How will the government help migrant workers when it doesn’t have basic data about them and the only numbers based on which it has drafted its relief policy is from the 2011 census, the Congress asked on Sunday. Party spokesperson Kapil Sibal said at a press conference through video link, “They make announcements but the fact of the matter is that this government does not even know the number of migrants.” He said the 2011 census said there were about six crore migrant workers, which itself was dated. The government, he said, doesn’t know how many of these have travelled outside the State for work and how many have travelled to the bigger cities. According to the World Bank, Mr. Sibal said there are 40 million internal migrants impacted by the lockdown. The unemployment rate, as per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, is 27.1% now and in March 2020 it was 8.7%. Job losses “More than 12 crore persons have lost their jobs.” He accused the government of spending the last six years on divisive issues such as Article 370, National Register for Citizens, Citizenship Amendment Act and bringing law to criminalise triple talaq. “I humbly request the Prime Minister and please do answer. How much have you paid to the migrants from the PM CARES fund,” Mr. Sibal asked. He said over 600 persons had died due to the lockdown, and the National Disaster Management Act dictated that their families should get ex gratia. Section 12 of the Act says the authority shall recommend the guidelines for minimum standard relief to be provided to persons, affected by disaster which shall include ex gratia on account of loss of lives as also assistance on account of damage and for restoration of means of livelihood, he said. ‘Lack of strategy’ The party also criticised the government for what it called a lack of comprehensive exit strategy. Party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, “Today, we witnessed the biggest ‘single day spike’ in COVID-19 infection. The 5th lockdown begins on Monday, what is the government strategy? Have the lockdowns failed? Is there a blueprint to fight corona?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-doesnt-have-data-on-migrants/article31718676.ece
01 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Sons to manufacture Sree Chitra institute’s test kits||Tata Sons, the holding company of the Tata Group, has entered into an agreement with the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology , Thiruvananthapuram, for commercial production of COVID-19 testing kits.  The kits will be based on the RT-LAMP (Reverse Transcriptase Loop-Mediated Amplification) technology which can produce results in significantly less time thereby increasing the throughput of labs in India, a Tata Sons statement said. The tests are expected to get approval shortly and production will start thereafter. The tie-up follows the Tata Sons’ partnership with the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology to produce CRISPR-based test kits. ‘Futuristic technology’ “The RT-LAMP is a futuristic technology that can be adapted for point-of-care setting. The ‘Chitra Gene LAMP-N’ test uses an isothermal set-up to create copies of viral DNA for detection, which significantly reduces the complexity of overall process compared to the prevalent Real Time PCR technology,” the statement said. The test also uses proprietary magnetic nanoparticle-based RNA extraction, which gives highly purified and concentrated level of RNA from the swab sample, it said. Banmali Agrawala, president, infrastructure and defence & aerospace, Tata Sons, said, “Testing is a crucial part of this fight against COVID-19 as early detection and treatment arrests the spread of the infection.”  “The mass production of RT-Lamp-based COVID-19 testing kits with the active support of the Tata Group will be a significant milestone for the institute. I would like to commend the efforts of the R&D team of the institute and the Tata Group,” said V.K. Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tata-sons-to-manufacture-sree-chitra-institutes-test-kits/article31718681.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Surge in rescue of wildlife during lockdown||As the city inches towards embracing old and new ways of life in a phased “unlock” from June 8, wildlife conservationists are hoping that citizens adopt a more harmonious way of life – one that will allow Bengaluru’s wildlife to thrive. Over the two-and-a half-month lockdown period, the forest cell of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) alone has rescued over 20 different species of birds, reptiles and animals. Prasanna Kumar, wildlife warden, Bengaluru Urban, BBMP Forest Cell, told The Hindu that they had seen an unprecedented number of rescues during the lockdown as wildlife ventured into urban spaces due to the unusual quietness. “We rescued over 20 different species of snakes, an Indian terrapin turtle, an Indian softshell turtle, black kite, rose-ringed parakeets, Brahminy kite, squirrel babies, peacocks.” Most of these sightings and rescues took place near Jayanagar, Vidyaranapura and Rajarajeshwari Nagar. Some of these areas, such as Vidyaranapura, are seeing a lot of development work pushing wildlife out of their habitats. Others are close to green areas, such as Cubbon Park and Lalbagh (Jayanagar) and the Turahalli forest (Rajarajeshwari Nagar), which is also seeing damage to habitats. “The highlight was finding four peacocks and the two species of turtle. Now that the rainy season has almost set in, the turtle will be seen outside as they will migrate out of lakes. Most of them are killed due to traffic. Snake eggs – viper, cobra, etc – too have started hatching. They had come out in more numbers during the lockdown because of fewer vehicles and probably lesser pollution,” said Mr. Kumar. Urban wildlife, conservationists say, is every citizen’s responsibility as we have all caused direct or indirect damage to it. They are important to the urban ecological balance as, for example, reptiles control the rat population, and kites eat chicken waste, they explain. Vijay Nishanth, urban conservationist, said habitat destruction and “major developments” in many big cities was evident, as the COVID-19 pandemic showed. “Despite governments spending crores, lakes haven’t been cleaned because effluents continue to flow in. But two months of lockdown showed what radical construction had caused and what lack of traffic, noise pollution and interference can do. This period has also shown us that natural disasters are not limited to certain regions. When it happened in Kodagu and other parts of the Western Ghats, we didn’t wake up. Now, the pandemic has affected everyone. The world is one organism, and it is time we make space for forests and wildlife,” he said. What citizens can do is to learn about wildlife and conservation, look at planting local varieties and fruit trees, such as tamarind, jackfruit and mango, to ensure food for them, and reach out to professionals for rescue in case of sightings. “Ask the government the right questions now. Every citizen should become an environment warrior,” Mr. Nishanth added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surge-in-rescue-of-wildlife-during-lockdown/article31718656.ece
01 June 2020||HUBBALLI,||Too many aspirants for MGNREGS jobs||As the COVID-19 induced reverse migration has brought many families to their native places in the northern districts of Karnataka, the onus is now on creating more person days under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) scheme. While there are still problems at the ground level, the reality is that not all can find jobs under the scheme. The sheer magnitude of reverse migration makes it impossible for the administration to create jobs for all under one scheme. While for a major chunk, MNREGA is the only help, not all are dependent on it as they are looking for other options. During a reality check, it was found that some had found alternative jobs, while in some cases even graduates have turned to MNREGA for help. In contrast to the claim of officials, representatives of farmers organisations complained of corruption and non-cooperation at village level. In Belagavi district, the officials say they are making extensive preparations to gainfully employ labourers who have returned from big cities through MNREGA. “Against an estimated 6,000 labourers who returned, we have issued 9,000 job cards in one month. We have clocked 90,000 person days per day till May 26,” said zilla panchayat chief executive officer K.V. Rajendra. According to CEO of Dharwad Zilla Panchahayat B.C. Sateesh, following lockdown the demand for job cards had increased and consequently they had added new works to be taken up under MNREGA. Navalgund Taluk Panchayat executive officer Pavitra Patil said MNREGA had helped workers who hitherto travelled to cities like Hubballi and Dharwad to find job at their village. Problems remain However, problems remain. Activists complain that village-level officials are not enthusiastic about the scheme. “Because of fear of COVID-19, most officials don’t want to start works in villages to avoid inspection or meeting the labourers. When people go to panchayat offices seeking work, they are sent back,” said Bharati Kadam, who runs Mahalakshmi Stree Sahaya Sangha. “Some officials say they are busy in COVID-related works like setting up quarantine centres or door-to-door health survey. They are not at all serious about this,” said Sharada Gopal of Jagruta Mahila Okkoota. Grameena Koolikarara Sangha activist Vishweshvarayya Hiremath alleged of corruption. “In some villages, officials are demanding Rs. 20 per labourer to create nominal muster rolls. Five labourers together give Rs. 100 to the panchayat data entry operator or secretary and finalise their lists. Our complaints have gone in vain,” he said. When contacted, Dr. Rajendra said that all such complaints would be looked into. Alternative jobs In Kalaburagi district, amid those waiting for job cards, several have found alternative opportunities. Pandu Chavan of Mahagaon tanda in Kalaburagi district, who worked as a construction labourer in Mumbai for the last 25 years, has now joined a construction site at Kamalanagar village along with his two sons and is earning Rs. 600 per day compared with the Rs. 700 he earned in Mumbai. But Pandu still prefers to return to Mumbai after lockdown as work is available ‘here’ only for 4-5 months. Meanwhile, six families of migrants from Madki and Belkota tanda in Kalaburagi district have already found alternative jobs like electrical, plumbing and fabrication and have a decent earning. Mahesh and Vinod from Ghat Hipparaga village in Basavakalyan taluk of Bidar district, who worked in a Pune hotel, now sells fruits. “We buy fruits directly from farmers and also sell them to commuters on the highway. We earn at least Rs. 500 to Rs. 700 per day after all expenses,” Mahesh said. Best option According to Daulatrai Wadwadagi, a senior journalist in Muddebihal, the best option for migrant workers is MNREGA as only 20% of the workers could find jobs in stone quarries and in farm activities. Doddappa Kubsad, who returned from Maharashtra, now works in a stone quarry which fetches him Rs. 800 per day. “At least I have a job now till I get chance to go back to Maharashtra,” he said. Like Doddappa, there are people like Mailarappa, a native of Tippanahalli village in Shahpur taluk, who are waiting to return to Bengaluru. Still waiting But unlike them, there are many who are still struggling to get job cards and work. In Raichur and Yadgir districts, officials face a Herculean task  with 60,756 and 43,008 migrant workers returning home, respectively. By May-end, the authorities had created 11,933 jobs in Raichur and had issued 4,303 new job cards. In Yadigir district, it was 13,284 jobs and 12,843 new job cards. However, there is a data mismatch. An official pointed out that instead of considering only adults under MNREGA, all the members of migrant families had been included. And there are technical issues too, including inter-State documents and with several thousands still in institutional quarantine. ( With inputs from Rishikesh Bahadur Desai, Praveen Para, Ravikumar Naraboli, Firoz Rozindar, and Dinesh Nayak )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/too-many-aspirants-for-mgnregs-jobs/article31718658.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways set to get back on track||More than 1.45 lakh passengers are booked to travel via trains on Monday as the Railways begins graded restoration of passenger services with 200 new special trains. As per the data shared by the Railways, till Sunday morning, nearly 26 lakh passengers had booked in advance for the reservation period from June 1 to June 3. These 200 trains will be run in addition to the 30 special passenger trains that started operations on May 12, as well as the Shramik Special trains. Meanwhile, a Railways spokesperson said that some States, such as Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, have expressed reservations about the running of trains or the number of stoppages as planned. “The matter is being discussed with the States,” the spokesperson added. As per the new rules for rail travel, passengers will need to reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance and only those with confirmed/RAC (reservation against cancellation) tickets will be allowed to enter the railway station and board the train. Partially wait-listed ticket holders will be allowed (that is, if there are both confirmed as well as wait-listed passengers under a single PNR). All passengers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic people will be allowed to board the train.  Passengers will need to carry their own linen as these items will not be provided on the trains. “All passengers must download and use the Aarogya Setu application,” the Railways said. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will make provision for limited availability of eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis only in limited trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-set-to-get-back-on-track/article31718683.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army rejects video of stand-off with China||The Army on Sunday denied that a video being circulated on social media was of the ongoing stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A picture, too, surfaced later, saying it is of injured Indian personnel surrounded by the Chinese. The images added to the chorus asking the government to make public the details of the situation on the border. “The contents of the video being circulated are not authenticated. Attempt to link it with the situation on the northern borders is mala fide ,” an Army spokesperson said in a statement. “Currently, no violence is happening,” the spokesperson added. The video shows a large number of Indian security personnel armed with batons and police shields next to a lake shouting and collecting stones from around as some soldiers are seen coming from the hilltop some distance away. One person is seen shielding what appears to be an injured Chinese solider. Both the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police operate along the LAC. Condemning attempts to “sensationalise” issues affecting national security, the spokesperson said differences were being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on the management of borders between the two countries. The spokesperson also requested the media not to air visuals that are “likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders”. Shortly after the video, a picture surfaced on Twitter showing several Indian personnel injured and lying on the ground and surrounded by Chinese soldiers. However, there was no official response on the image.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-rejects-video-of-stand-off-with-china/article31718694.ece
01 June 2020||Patna,||Bihar asks Centre to bear entire cost of schemes||Bihar has sent an SOS to the Centre urging that it bear the State’s share of all 66 Centrally sponsored schemes for the next one year owing to the low tax collections because of the extended COVID-19 lockdown. Bihar has registered a drop in tax collection from its own resources by 85% in April this year. “In the financial year of 2019-20 the State government had spent Rs. 10,000 crore as its share for 66 Centrally sponsored schemes but, due to extended lockdown the State’s own revenue collection has dropped drastically and the government is not in a position to generate funds for bearing its share,” Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who also holds the Finance portfolio, said on Saturday. The implementation of Centrally sponsored schemes such as the MGNREGA, the PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna), mid-day meal and others could even be suspended in case the Central government did not bear the “entire cost of these 66 schemes”, Mr. Modi added. “Most of schemes have 60:40 ratio, however, in some schemes the ratio is even 50:50,” he said. However, Mr. Modi thanked Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, for allocating Rs. 9, 263 crore as State’s share in Central taxes for the current fiscal year. Bihar is currently facing a massive reverse migration of its workers and the State government is grappling with the problem of generating employment for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-asks-centre-to-bear-entire-cost-of-schemes/article31718686.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Property tax collection nets Rs. 575 crore||Despite the lockdown and the accompanying economic hardships, the GHMC could garner more revenue than that of previous year from property tax collections through the ‘Early Bird’ scheme. The collection through the scheme amounted to Rs. 575 crore at the end of Sunday, the last day of the scheme, which was Rs. 40 crore more than last year’s Early Bird collection. April 30 was the deadline for the scheme last year, which has been extended to May 31 this year due to meagre initial collection. However, by the end of May last year too, without any scheme, the collection stood at Rs. 575 crore. Early Bird scheme offered 5% rebate in property tax for all domestic and commercial establishments if paid before May 31. The officials were not very hopeful of reaching the target of Rs. 500 crore as against the Rs. 535 crore collection from last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/property-tax-collection-nets-rs-575-crore/article31718979.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Amendment on new map tabled in Nepal||Ms. Tumbahangphe said the Coat of Arms of Nepal will be altered after the amendment is passed as it will depict the new map. The tabling of the Bill came a day after the chief Opposition, the Nepali Congress, extended support to Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s government, which ensured that the Bill will get the required two-thirds majority in the Parliament. The process is expected to take around a week. Former Foreign Secretary of Nepal Madhu Raman Acharya said the amendment is bound to sail through, given the unanimity among major political parties. “It’s just a matter of time as all sides are united that Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh belong to Nepal and the map needs to show the correct territory of of our country,” said Mr. Acharya, speaking to The Hindu on the phone. However, despite Mr. Acharya’s claim of support from “all sides”, the Parliament showed the deep division within Nepal’s polity as the parties from the plains, or the Madhes region, appeared less than enthusiastic about the new map, which has emerged as an emotive issue among a majority of the people. Samajbadi Party leader Upendra Yadav said his party, which has been at the forefront of struggle for Madhesis’ rights, has not taken a clear stand on the map. “We have not decided to support or oppose the amendment Bill till now,” Mr. Yadav said. The position of the Madhesis will not make a difference in the final acceptance of the new map but it definitely indicates the internal differences in Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amendment-on-new-map-tabled-in-nepal/article31718650.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Health Dept. to assess situation and decide on inter-State travel||The State government has given powers to the Health and Family Welfare Department to assess the COVID-19 situation in other States and decide on inter-State movement of people. The State had been contemplating restricting movement of people from five States — Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu — where the prevalence of COVID-19 is high. The State Cabinet, it is learnt, had also discussed restricting movement of persons from these States to Karnataka. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy had also indicated that the State was pressing for fewer flights from these States. Incidentally, Karnataka has already tightened its borders with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu by restricting travel by road. Sunday’s guidelines, signed by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaybhaskar, stated that the Department of Health and Family Welfare would issue a separate order in this respect. The MHA guidelines hadequipped States to regulate movement of persons for public health reasons, and such regulations should be done with adequate publicity. Fate of businesses While the State has expectedly stuck to the Union government’s guidelines, several business groups in Karnataka that had met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking the opening of businesses have been left disappointed. They include shopping mall owners and those running hotels and restaurants. They had begun preparations to open their businesses over the past week and were hoping to get permission to open shutters from Monday. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office had indicated that though the State was pushing for opening up some businesses, it would stick to the MHA guidelines. Since the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power here, it will not go beyond the MHA directives in connection with the lockdown, sources said. As per the MHA notification, all these businesses along with places of worship will be part of phase 1 of reopening on June 8, under the fifth phase of the lockdown that will be in place till June 30. The total lockdown, except for essential and emergency services, will be in place only in areas identified as containment zones. While the Chief Minister had earlier announced that places of worship, including temples, churches and mosques, would be open from June 1, devotees now have to wait another week before they will be reopened with norms for social distancing and a standard operating procedure put in place. Several temples had started preparations for opening up with restrictions in place. Meanwhile, the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, which was expecting some kind of relief from Monday, has expressed disappointment at being left out in the new guidelines. Though the reopening of bars will be looked into in phase 3, along with gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, and theatres, a time frame has not been mentioned, an office-bearer said, adding that it was becoming difficult to maintain overheads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-dept-to-assess-situation-and-decide-on-inter-state-travel/article31718766.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Indefinite lockdown is more harmful: experts||The government on Friday announced a series of relaxations called Unlock 1 that limits lockdown only to containment zones until June 30 and a spate of relaxations after June 8. The government relied on modellers, or theoreticians, rather than field-level epidemiologists who are better acquainted with disease transmission dynamics. “From the limited information available in the public domain, it seems that the government was primarily advised by clinicians and academic epidemiologists with limited field training and skills,” the letter underlines. India was paying a heavy price both in terms of humanitarian crisis and disease spread, the experts said. The “incoherent” and often rapidly shifting strategies and policies especially at the national level were more a reflection of “afterthought” and “catching up” phenomenon by the policy makers rather than a well-thought, cogent strategy with an epidemiological basis, they said. Among its suggestions, the group said the government should rapidly scale up public health and allocate 5% of GDP to health expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indefinite-lockdown-is-more-harmful-experts/article31718662.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Release Varavara Rao, demand former CICs||Two former Central information commissioners have urged the Maharashtra government to release revolutionary writer and poet P. Varavara Rao who has been in judicial custody for the last 18 months in the Bhima Koregaon case related to alleged attempt to murder Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They wanted acquittal of Mr. Varavara Rao or his release on bail immediately if the trial could not be completed speedily. The government should shift him to a hospital in Hyderabad or permit his family to travel across the State and meet him in the hospital if his release on bail was not possible. The government could facilitate video-conferencing with his wife and daughters besides disclosing the complete details of his medical condition and diagnostic reports. Letter to Uddhav In a detailed letter addressed to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, former info commissioners Shailesh Gandhi and M. Sridharacharyulu wanted the government to share certified copies of entire file relating to investigation of the case available with the Mumbai police headquarters or with the Maharashtra Home Minister. The file notes pertaining to handing over the case to the National Investigation Agency should also be shared within 48 hours as the information was concerned with the life and liberty of Mr. Varavara Rao. Steps should be taken to provide medical status report of Mr. Rao to the court on June 2, enabling him to secure bail. They alleged that there was absolute lack of evidence against Mr. Varavara Rao. The Pune police and the state investigation teams had investigated the case for around 16 weeks and could not collect even an iota of evidence to prove the "wild charge" that this 80-year-old man from Hyderabad had conspired/attempted to murder the Prime Minister. The Maharashtra government on its part stated that there was no evidence against Mr. Varavara Rao and others in the case and also declared that they would close the file very soon. "But, at that time, suddenly the National Investigation Authority NIA has taken over the investigation into its hands and stalled the release of Varavara Rao on bail. So far, no progress in investigation against Varavara Rao is reported by NIA also," they said. Citing the Constitutional provisions, they said the subject of law and order was in the State list which could not be taken away by the Centre without any such request from the State or the court. Factually, Mr. Varavara Rao, at the advanced age of 80, had several issues. With his most honest history as a simple teacher, journalist and poet, he could not be expected to jump the bail and this should be the strong ground for granting him bail. "Not the least, humanity demands his release," they said and recalled Mr. Varavara Rao was suffering from multiple ailments before he was taken into judicial custody. It was reported that Mr. Varavara Rao fell ill on May 29 and shifted to JJ hospital from Taloja jail in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/release-varavara-rao-demand-former-cics/article31718660.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Stay more vigilant than ever against virus: PM||“Apart from that, certain decisions taken by the Centre would also contribute to the development of our rural areas as economic centres and contribute to their self-reliance,” Mr. Modi said. He commended the Indian Railways, which has been under fire for the facilities provided to inter-State workers on Shramik Special trains taking them home. “Indian Railways has been working to get people home. They have worked round-the-clock for it,” he said. He singled out several philanthropic individuals, who on their own contributed to relief work during the lockdown. “Those who serve are positive, vital and confident, and it was a pleasant discovery for me on how Indians across the country have pitched in to serve,” he said. The Ayushman Bharat universal health insurance scheme clocked over 1 crore beneficiaries last week, a fact marked by Mr. Modi. “For our poor, medical help is expensive and a choice has to be made between sinking further into poverty and not getting the required treatment. I am happy that over 1 crore beneficiaries, 80% of whom are from rural areas, and 50% of whom are women, got help under the scheme. Our honest tax payer also needs to be commended as it is through his/ her taxes that all these welfare programmes are funded,” the PM said. Mr. Modi reiterated that the phasing out of the lockdown cannot be seen as an end to COVID-19, but that social distancing and other measures should be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stay-more-vigilant-than-ever-against-virus-pm/article31718665.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Intolerance against the judiciary is growing’||He said this during an online lecture on Sunday on ‘Freedom of Speech in times of COVID-19 - Fake news and misinformation’, organised by the MBA Academy, Madras Bar Association. The event saw the participation of S. Parthasarathy, chairman of the MBA Academy, and M. Baskar, secretary of the Madras Bar Association. Justice Kaul was part of the Bench which recently took suo motu cognisance of the migrant workers’ crisis. In a recent hearing of the case, the Bench saw Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submit how “a handful of people give certificates to judges of neutrality only if judges abuse the Executive!” The judge said it was a struggle to regulate social media without restricting free speech. He said “fake news propensity has aggravated, creating hostility against identifiable groups” even before the onset of the pandemic in the country. He said there was a lot of information available during COVID-19 period, including its “remedies”, the origin, people who were “helping the spread of the virus” and such. These messages even take on religious and racial undertones. Justice Kaul said there was hardly any discernment or effort to know from where information had come or who had sent it on social media. Messages received on social media platforms were “mindlessly forwarded” creating panic and triggering hate at a difficult time when people were worried about their livelihood and basic essentials. He noted how overall intolerance had exceeded limits. Even prior to the COVID-19 period, “we had become increasingly intolerant of the opinions that do not match with ours. What is perceived as the middle path becomes the casualty. There are various shades of grey, it is not always black and white. As a democratic polity, we have to appreciate the opinion of others... People who hold opposing views call each other as a ‘Modi bhakt’ or ‘urban naxal”, etc.... Both sections are equally intolerant,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/intolerance-against-the-judiciary-is-growing/article31718664.ece
01 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||1 dead in second lynching in a week in Assam||A 23-year-old man was lynched by a mob in Jorhat district of eastern Assam on May 29, a week after a middle-aged vegetable vendor was killed in a similar incident in Kamrup district. Officials said the man, identified as Debasish Gogoi from Nakachari Milgaon near Mariani town, died of injuries at the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. According to eyewitnesses, the incident happened after an accident. Mr. Gogoi and his friend Aditya Das, riding a two-wheeler, were stopped from going to a picnic spot through the Gabharu Parbat Tea Estate by its watchmen. A quarrel that ensued was brought under control, but the duo’s vehicle allegedly hit two women, both plantation workers, on their way back home. “Our two-wheeler skidded. A crowd gathered and began raining blows and kicks on us,” said Mr. Das, who is undergoing treatment at the JMCH. “We are interrogating four people who have been picked up,” said the police outpost’s in-charge R. Dutta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1-dead-in-second-lynching-in-a-week-in-assam/article31718670.ece
01 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Crossed wires at hospital leave family stunned||Negative test results for COVID-19 led to a bizarre incident at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital earlier this week, with the family of a deceased patient informed by hospital authorities that he was alive just hours after they had performed his cremation. Devrambhai Bhisikar was admitted to the COVID-19 ward of Ahmedabad Civil Hospital on May 28 with fever, cough and breathlessness, all symptoms of COVID-19. He died the following day before the results of his samples arrived. As per protocol for suspected COVID-19 cases, his body was wrapped in PPE and handed over to the family, who cremated him soon after. “When we returned home [after the cremation], we received calls from the hospital that the results of Devrambhai were negative and he could be shifted to the general ward. We were shocked,” said Nilesh Nikte, Bhisikar’s son-in-law. “When we rushed to the hospital, the doctor said it was a mistake by the control room person, who had called us based on Devrambhai’s negative results without checking on his status,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crossed-wires-at-hospital-leave-family-stunned/article31718671.ece
01 June 2020||Kozhikode,||Call to exempt helplines from COVID-19 message||Demands have come up from various quarters to exempt all emergency helpline numbers from playing the recorded COVID-19 caller tune as it has been reportedly affecting quick response to distress calls. In a recent incident, a resident of Kayanna panchayat faced difficulties while trying to contact the Fire and Rescue Services after a fire outbreak at his house. “When contacted, we kept hearing the recorded message frequently,” he said, adding that the fire was then brought under control after several failed attempts. Changing situation The authorities should take into account the changing situation and the improved level of awareness, said Sudhakaran, a retired engineer. “Emergency services should be totally exempted from playing the tune.” Some traders and those working in the health sector too have called for the removal of COVID-19 caller tune from helplines managed by the police, fire and rescue services and the Health department. Representatives of the Kerala Fire Service Association said the matter had been taken up with the State government. They said there were not many cases in Kerala where the caller tune stood in the way of prompt action on their part in addressing distress calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-exempt-helplines-from-covid-19-message/article31718659.ece
01 June 2020||Chandigarh,||Liquor shops to open in Punjab from today||In line with the Central government’s guidelines for Unlock 1.0, Punjab government on Sunday ordered formulation of clearly defined standard operating procedures for opening up of hotels-hospitality services, shopping malls, places of worship, and restaurants for in-dinning, from June 8. It announced immediate opening up of shops, including liquor and barber shops, beauty parlours, spas etc, from June 1 in the non-containment zones. “In the containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed,” said a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/liquor-shops-to-open-in-punjab-from-today/article31718925.ece
01 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Push for delimitation before completion of NRC unfortunate’||The Congress in Assam has criticised the BJP, which is part of the ruling alliance in the State, for pursuing the delimitation of Assembly constituencies before the exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) is completed. “It is very unfortunate that the BJP is trying to undertake the delimitation exercise before the NRC exercise is completed ... This is being done to reap the benefits of the expected redistribution of various communities to suit the ruling party,” said Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/push-for-delimitation-before-completion-of-nrc-unfortunate/article31718924.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||IPS transfers||The government has transferred four IPS officers on Sunday. S. Satish Kumar has been transferred and posted as OSD, Narsipatnam, Visakhapatnam. Vasana Vidhya Sagar Naidu has been transferred and posted as Assistant SP, Chintapalli, Visakhapatnam and Bindu Madhav Garikapati has been transferred and posted as Assistant SP, Rampachodavaram, East Godavari. Tuhin Sinha has been posted as Assistant SP, Narsipatnam, Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ips-transfers/article31719173.ece
01 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala temple opens for idol installation||The Lord Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala opened on Sunday afternoon for the day-long rituals to be held in connection with the anniversary of idol installation on Monday. Melsanthi (head priest) A.K.Sudheer Namboodiri opened the sanctum sanctorum in the presence of the tantri Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu, Devaswom officials at 5 p.m. on Sunday. The temple rituals will begin with the tantri performing the Ashtadravya Ganapathi homom on Monday morning. However, pilgrims are not allowed to enter Sabarimala this time too owing to the nationwide lockdown norms. Only routine rituals will be performed at Sabarimala in connection with the idol installation anniversary on Monday. Abhishekom, Ushapuja, Utchapuja and Deeparadhana and Athazhapuja will be performed on Monday. The temple will be closed with the Melsanthi singing the sacred lullaby, ‘Harivarasanam, viswamohanom….’ at 7.30 p.m. on Monday. Opening on June 14 The Ayyappa temple will be opened again on June 14 afternoon for the five-day monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Midhunom that begins the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-temple-opens-for-idol-installation/article31718661.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||PM Modi to share his vision on ‘Getting Growth Back’ with India Inc on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will share his vision on ‘Getting Growth Back’ with India Inc. during an address at the annual session of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Tuesday, sources said. He will deliver the inaugural address at the day-long virtual event to mark 125 years of the CII since its inception in 1895, said sources in the industry chamber.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-modi-to-share-his-vision-on-getting-growth-back-with-india-inc-on-tuesday/article31718685.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily count tops 1,000 for the first time||With 1,149 people, including four babies, testing positive for COVID-19, Tamil Nadu’s daily case count breached the 1,000-mark for the first time on Sunday. This took the State’s overall tally to 22,333*. Thirteen deaths were recorded across the State. At 804, Chennai accounted for a majority of the fresh cases. As many as 757 patients were discharged from hospitals following treatment. The number of active cases stood at 9,400, including 6,710 persons admitted to isolation wards. A month-old infant each from Madurai and Chennai, a seven-month-old boy from Chennai and a six-month-old girl, who had arrived in T.N. by train, and was under railway quarantine, tested positive, according to the Health Department. The fresh cases included 95 persons who had returned from other States and abroad. At the international airport, two U.A.E. returnees tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival. Despite testing negative initially, a returnee from Myanmar tested positive after seven days of quarantine. Among domestic arrivals, four persons from Delhi and one from Maharashtra tested positive for the infection. As many as 87 passengers, including 61 from Maharashtra and others who had returned from other States by road and train, tested positive for COVID-19. Vulnerable groups According to a medical bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health, 757 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the tally of those discharged after treatment to 12,757. As many as 12,049 persons were tested on Sunday. The number of elderly persons who contracted the disease climbed to 2,052. As many as 1,286 children below the age of 12 have been infected thus far. Among the 13 persons whose deaths were recorded on Sunday, four died in private hospitals. All of them had health complications, including diabetes and hypertension, the bulletin said. In Namakkal, a 49-year-old man who came to the Government Medical College Hospital with complaints of fever, cough and breathlessness on Friday, died that night due to respiratory failure/pneumonia. A 37-year-old man from Kancheepuram, who was admitted to a private hospital in the city with complaints of breathing difficulties on May 16, died on Saturday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 60-year-old woman who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died of the infection. She had diabetes, was hypertensive, had hypothyroidism, and had undergone coronary artery bypass graft. After her test returned positive on May 28, she was admitted to a hospital on Saturday. She died on Sunday. A 62-year-old man, admitted to a hospital on May 28 based on test results from a private lab, died in the early hours of Sunday. An 80-year-old man with diabetes, referred by a private hospital in the city to the RGGGH on Friday, died on Saturday due to the infection.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States. One patient died after turning negative for infection.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-count-tops-1000-for-the-first-time/article31718849.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thousands throng Kasimedu fishing harbour on Sunday||Thousands of consumers and retailers flocked to Kasimedu to buy fish right off the boats on Sunday morning. The impromptu row of vendors, along the busy Ennore Expressway, a national highway, was crowded was early as 4 a.m. Customers threw caution to the wind and thronged the shops with no care for physical distancing. Fishermen said none of the departments concerned took any steps to regulate the crowds. Alternate arrangements “There is police presence even when a Tasmac shop is opened. But here, since fishers are not allowed to sell fish inside the Kasimedu fishing harbour, they are forced to sell their catch on the roads. And this is because the Chennai Corporation, Fisheries Department and the police have not bothered to earmark any space for sales. There is enough empty space inside the fishing harbour that can be used for this purpose,” Nanjil Ravi, from the Akhila Indhiya Meenavar Makkal Sangam, said. With only country craft and boats with low horsepower going to sea, only about 6-8 tonnes of fish catch was brought back daily to Kasimedu. This was against its 150 tonnes a day during normal operations. People flock to Kasimedu hoping for fresh catches and many buyers prefer to touch and check the fish before buying it, an industry expert explained. With the government deciding to lift the fishing ban on larger mechanised boats from Sunday night, the primary demand of fishers was arrangements for regulated retail sale of fish through markets and retailers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-throng-kasimedu-fishing-harbour-on-sunday/article31718824.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic casts shadow over Tiruvottiyur, Gudiyatham bypolls||With personal distancing likely to be the norm for some more time to come in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, uncertainty prevails over conducting the byelections to Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyatham Assembly constituencies within the normal stipulated six months ending in August. Tiruvottiyur Assembly seat fell vacant on February 27 following the death of DMK leader and former Minister K.P.P. Samy. Gudiyatham seat had fallen vacant the following day owing to the passing of S. Kathavarayan, also of the DMK. 18 Rajya Sabha seats The Election Commission (EC) is yet to decide about even holding elections to 18 Rajya Sabha seats, originally scheduled for March 26 and postponed later due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the last four years, in Tamil Nadu, due to different reasons, bypolls to 21 Assembly constituencies were held well after the six-month-period of becoming vacant. Section 151 A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which stipulates time limit for filling vacancies, enables the EC to conclude, after having consultation with the Union government that it would not be able to hold byelection within the prescribed period. Satyabrata Sahoo, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), said there has not been any reference to him from the EC after the imposition of lockdown a couple of months ago. ‘Under consideration’   The Hindu sent queries to the EC on its plan for the bypoll and whether there has been any discussion on regulating polls in general and campaigning by candidates adhering to the personal distancing. The Commission’s spokesperson responded that “the matter is under consideration. When the matter is decided by the Commission, we will inform about it.” Pointing out that the pandemic is “no joke,” Naresh Gupta, former CEO, acknowledged that there will be practical difficulties in holding the bypolls under the given circumstances. Apart from issues involved in enforcing the precautionary norms at the time of campaigning by parties and contestants, the chances of personal distancing norms being observed at each polling booth, where there will be two polling officers and one presiding officer apart from agents of candidates, were “very slim”, he pointed out. Besides, at the time of applying indelible ink on the forefinger of a voter’s left hand, the adherence to the norm would be tested, Mr Gupta added.  There will be practical difficulties in holding the bypolls under the given circumstances Naresh Gupta Former CEO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-casts-shadow-over-tiruvottiyur-gudiyatham-bypolls/article31718855.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From today, half the STC fleet will ply in State with 60% capacity||Bus services will resume in a limited manner from Monday in Tamil Nadu, except in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced on Sunday. Public transport was suspended in the State since the last week of March as part of COVID-19 lockdown measures. Classifying the State into eight zones (see graphic) for the purpose of bus services, he said that 50% of the Transport Corporations’ fleet would be operational in six zones, with 60% occupancy. No public transport would be available in zones VII and VIII (Chennai and three nearby districts). On certain approved routes, private buses/stage carriers will be allowed to operate. Travel passes E-passes are not necessary for travel within the zones. E-passes are also not required for bus travel. There will be restrictions on inter-zone and inter-State bus travel. E-passes will be mandatory for inter-zone and inter-State travel, including for vehicles entering Tamil Nadu. Transport Corporations have been asked to encourage the use of e-wallets and QR codes for payments and passes by passengers for travel, so that physical contact with the conductor can be restricted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-today-half-the-stc-fleet-will-ply-in-state-with-60-capacity/article31718846.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||India needs framework of justice, says Sainath||“Every action taken from now on should be on the framework of justice — health justice, food justice, education justice and others even as the COVID-19 pandemic has shown us that the society we have created is extremely vulnerable, and inequalities are destroying the poor,” said P. Sainath, veteran journalist and founder editor, PARI. Speaking on “Lockdown and Rural Distress” in a programme organised online by Poovulagin Nanbargal , Mr. Sainath said, “COVID-19 turned out to be a surgeon that has provided an autopsy of our society, its neo-liberalisation policies and capitalism.” “In the 28 years of neo-liberalism, we have created a society that is extremely vulnerable. For 28 years, we turned poor people into a much more fragile, much more vulnerable section of society,” he said. Mr. Sainath said the coronavirus was not destroying the society, but the inequalities were. “A virus has no agency, it has no mind. It is just there. The impact of a crisis is never equal,” he said. It was a nightmare to see the socially disadvantaged people trying to access the pathetic crumbs the government was giving, he added. Mr. Sainath said India had to be ready to face the next major challenge — food security. He condemned the Central government for diverting a large number of tonnes of food grains at this point to make hand sanitisers. Because of this, the rice eating States would be badly hit, he added.  COVID-19 turned out to be a surgeon that has provided an autopsy of our society, its neo-liberalisation policies and capitalism||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-needs-framework-of-justice-says-sainath/article31718827.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public health system in Tamil Nadu is good, says Shailaja Teacher||Kerala Health Minister K.K.Shailaja Teacher, on Sunday, acknowledged that Tamil Nadu’s public health system was “good”. As for Kerala, it had prepared much earlier to combat COVID-19. “The situation in Kerala is different from other parts of the world — we have many financial problems but because of the decentralisation, people-centric planning we have high Human Development Index (HDI) and effective public health system. It was also because of pre-preparedness and collective activity of the government (we succeeded),” she said during a virtual interaction with Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on the ‘New Normal’ in post-COVID-19 India. “When we read WHO’s announcement that there is a potential virus in Wuhan on January 18, they didn’t identify the virus as SARS-COV – 2 or declare it as a pandemic. I called my secretary and discussed it with him. He said that we have to prepare for it. We anticipated that Malayali students studying in Wuhan would come back,” she said. Mr. Haasan said that Kerala government could not have tackled the crisis well unless the government backed the Minister. “You were not waiting for orders from anywhere. You had your own protocols. Unless there is total backing of the government, good job cannot be done,” Mr. Haasan said. Ms. Shailaja said that she received similar backing from the government during the Nipah virus outbreak in 2018. Speaking about how people need not think that contracting COVID-19 is a near certain death, Dr. Ramanan Laxminarayan, founder and director, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in Washington, said: “Death due to Covid-19 is very rare. Since, we don’t have immunity, we are worrying. We have to take precaution – not just for us but to protect the elderly in our homes.” Mr. Haasan said that television channels could consider broadcasting school education lessons to facilitate learning. Psychiatrist Shalini stressed on the need for following safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-public-health-system-good-says-kerala-minister/article31718832.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits production in prison units||The Tamil Nadu prison industry, one of the highest profit-making revenue models among State prisons in the country, has been hit by COVID-19 and the ongoing lockdown. While units in the Puzhal Central Prison were closed down after 30 convicts and a sanitation worker tested positive for COVID-19 a couple of days ago, productivity in manufacturing units in other central prisons across the State has been severely hit due to non-availability of raw materials owing to lockdown restrictions. Tamil Nadu prisons have consistently remained on top in the country, in terms of profits from selling products under the ‘Freedom’ brand name. They sell bakery items, clothes, handicraft articles, candles, stationery, etc., through ‘Freedom Bazaar’ shops. Trained convicts get paid for the work. The Puzhal prison runs a petrol bunk on the National Highway close to its campus, and that too has been shut since one of the 16 convicts posted on duty there, on shifts, tested positive. Director-General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh said that steps had been taken to finalise tenders for purchasing raw materials, and all manufacturing units in central prisons would soon resume full-fledged production. About four lakh surgical masks, stitched for the Tamil Nadu police and other State front line workers, are available, since their selling price is Rs. 10 a piece, considering their manufacturing cost. “We had purchased the raw materials at a high cost since they were scarce during the lockdown. Now surgical masks are available at lower costs and we are not able to clear the stock at Rs. 10 a piece,” he said. Source unknown Mr. Singh said that the source of infection in the Puzhal Central Prison remained unknown. Investigation was on to ascertain the source, as visitors were not allowed since the lockdown commenced a couple of months ago. Only prison staff and medical professionals had regular access inside the prison. “We have closed down the videoconference and telephone facilities for now. Tests are being done for others on the advice of doctors. Those who tested positive have been quarantined and are responding well to treatment,” he said.  We have closed down the videoconference and telephone facilities for now. Tests are being done for others on the advice of doctors Sunil Kumar Singh DGP (Prisons)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-hits-production-in-prison-units/article31718844.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More businesses to resume operations in city today||With a number of commercial establishments resuming operations on Monday, the Greater Chennai Corporation will start monitoring the units for violations to safety norms. Commercial units, including barber shops and beauty parlours, will open on Monday. These places carried a risk of COVID-19 infection. As a result, the civic officers were instructed to impose strict adherence to safety norms at businesses in the 200 wards and fine them for violations. “We have collected Rs. 45 lakh fine during the lockdown. With more establishments allowed to open, we will keep enforcing the guidelines,” said Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance), Chennai Corporation. “Starting Monday, commercial establishments have more dos than don’ts. This period of lockdown is different. These establishments have to adhere to safety norms to contain the spread of COVID-19,” an official said. According to estimates, over 50,000 shops were expected to reopen on Monday, leading to an increased risk of COVID-19 infection in many areas. As a result civic officials have started creating awareness on the importance of adhering to guidelines on masks, disinfection and physical distancing. Preventing harassment Traders’ associations have also requested the Chennai Corporation to prevent harassment of shop owners during the lockdown, stressing on the need for proper communication with traders regarding the fine amount. Officials said the big commercial establishments cannot open and ban on hotels and cinemas was expected to minimise the risk of infection. The Corporation would not permit any commercial establishments in containment zones where COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the city. As many as 201 containment zones have been earmarked in various parts of the city. At least 950 containment zones have been removed from the list after positive cases were not reported for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-businesses-to-resume-operations-in-city-today/article31718811.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Canteens to stop supply of free food from today||The Greater Chennai Corporation has stopped the supply of free food at Amma Canteens. Starting Monday, Amma Canteens will collect money for food supplied at 407 locations in the city. Zonal assistant health officers in all the 15 zones of the city on Sunday directed self-help groups to stop supply of free food in the canteens. The civic body started supplying free food owing to the announcement of the lockdown on April 23, after the urban poor were unable to pay for the subsidised food. In the message sent to the self help groups of the Amma Canteens on Sunday, the zonal assistant health officials said the Corporation decided to stop free food and permitted the staff to accept help from NGOs for helping the people get free food at the canteens. As many as 1.36 crore beneficiaries visited the canteens for food during the lockdown. The Corporation started supplying free food on April 23 with support from MLAs and Ministers in Chennai. According to the free sales report from April 23 to May 17 and May 20 to May 28, the MLAs and Ministers paid Rs. 3.84 crore towards free food for the city residents. As many as 84.58 lakh people visited Amma Canteens during the period. SHG members of Amma Canteens said over 50% of the visitors to Amma Canteens were unable to pay money for the subsidised food. Idli was sold at Rs. 1, curd rice at Rs. 3, chappati at Rs. 3 and sambar rice at Rs. 5. “We find many professionals visiting Amma Canteens for free food during the lockdown. This is an unusual trend. Many people say the free food is helpful during the pandemic,” a Amma Canteen worker said. Former Chennai Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said the Corporation should continue to offer food free of cost to the poor. “SHGs have been allowed to get money from NGOs for supply of free food,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-canteens-to-stop-supply-of-free-food-from-today/article31718819.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHGs will monitor those under quarantine in Tiruvallur||The Tiruvallur district administration has roped in women’s self-help groups (SHG) to assist the block medical officers in monitoring persons who are under home quarantine in the district and also conduct fever survey. “A one-day orientation programme for the SHGs, on carrying out the exercise, was held in Tiruvallur district on Saturday. A total of 174 SHG members took part in the training and they will report for work from Monday,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. The primary contacts of those who have tested positive for COVID-19, those who have come from abroad and other States, have been placed under home quarantine. “Every morning, the SHG members will report to their respective block medical officer at 9 a.m. They will be provided personal protective equipment,” said an official. Each SHG member will be allotted a certain number of houses where people were under quarantine. “They will visit the house and enquire about the health of the quarantined person and check if any of their family members have symptoms. They will check if they are getting immunity boosting medicines and if the locality is being disinfected daily and take pictures,” the official said. Daily reports Besides, the SHG members will find out if the family needs any medicine and at the end of the day, they will submit a report to the BMO. “The SHG members have been roped in to conduct fever survey. They will go to the wards, where more than four cases are reported, and conduct door-to-door survey to check if anyone has fever or other symptoms,” said K. Bhaskaran, Commissioner of Municipal Administration, who has been appointed as COVID-19 monitoring officer in Tiruvallur. He said that the SHG members had a good rapport with the community. “The residents will be much more open to them than to the officials,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shgs-will-monitor-those-under-quarantine-in-tiruvallur/article31718821.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light music orchestra groups go silent||With the schedule of weddings and temple festivals disrupted because of the COVID-19 lockdown, many members of light music orchestra groups in the city are struggling to support their families. L.R. Nagaraj, lead vocalist and mimicry artiste of Nagas Rhythms, said that in the last two months, at least 15 programmes had been cancelled. “I have been surviving, thanks to help from friends. But there are 20 musicians in my band who depend on me and I have not been able to help them beyond a certain point,” he said. Vinod Venugopal, vocalist who runs Alaapana band, has been collecting funds to help families in dire need. He said many musicians lead a hand-to-mouth existence. “They don't have any insurance or savings. They spend whatever little they get on running the family. A month ago, I was to transfer some money to an elderly musician but there was an issue with the IFSC code and I had to wait for a day. But that person called me and asked if could spare Rs. 100 immediately since he and his wife had not eaten for two days and they didn't want to trouble someone else again for money. I was shocked to hear this. They are in a terrible condition,” he said. Pitiable plight Vindhai Bharathi, who runs an association for stage musicians, said that their immediate future was a question mark since with tighter budgets everywhere, people conducting weddings and temple fests too would cut down on expenses and thereby music programmes. “We are such a bad position that many of us might take to begging. If we are recognised by the State government and get a welfare board it would help the members,” he said. Abaswaram Ramjhi, who has been part of the light music scenario since the 1970s, said the disc jockey culture, the demand for royalty from the performing rights society and reality shows on television have pushed the industry into an abyss. The lockdown was the last nail on the coffin. “These orchestra groups are part of the city's music culture and steps must be taken to revive them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-music-orchestra-groups-go-silent/article31718854.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Being a good host in the midst of a raging pandemic||Priyanka, 26, a cabin crew member with SpiceJet, badly missed flying for the past two months. When she resumed duty on the Delhi-Srinagar segment a few days ago, she had to wear PPE over her bright red attire. She was gripped by fear but chose to focus on her job. “There was an elderly couple on the flight, both of them were battling cancer. Though we were told to maintain personal distancing, we do have to attend to passengers’ needs. I had to extend quite a bit of assistance to both of them. When they got off, they touched my forehead and blessed me profusely. There is nothing more rewarding than that,” she said. While cabin crew have been perceived to have glamourous and cushy jobs, today they are akin to front line workers — ferrying stranded people from one city to another. Asked about flying in such trying circumstances, cabin crew of various airlines described the situation as the new normal. Passengers may or may not have COVID-19, but even while maintaining social distancing, they have to extend help to those on board, they said. Vanessa Fabian Waring, 32, who works with IndiGo, said that she and her colleagues stepped into the aircraft after a rigorous training regimen online on how to interact with passengers during the pandemic. “We need to be confident. Passengers are flying back home after being stranded for months. A few days ago, a passenger sincerely wished me well before stepping off the aircraft. When such things happen, you truly feel grateful and happy to serve people in these trying times,” she said. For some like Nikita Virani, also with IndiGo, flying is synonymous with in-flight service. “We feel bad that we are not able to extend it to passengers now. But our priority now is to ensure passengers wear safety shields and are comfortable,” she added. And when children on board refuse to wear masks, Ajanta Dutta, 52, with Air India, said gentle persuasion usually works. “When you show children that you are wearing one and that it will look beautiful, many just smile and agree to wear one,” she added. Sapna Menon, also with Air India, said despite the risks, she is proud to be serving people. “When the repatriation flight from Kuwait was about to land, passengers cheered in elation. I will never forget it,” she recalled.  When the repatriation flight from Kuwait was about to land, all of a sudden, passengers cheered in elation. I will never forget it Sapna Menon Cabin crew with Air India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/being-a-good-host-in-the-midst-of-a-raging-pandemic/article31718815.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All persons travelling from Chennai to be tested||With Tamil Nadu easing lockdown relaxations from Monday, COVID-19 testing will become mandatory for anyone travelling from Chennai to other districts, irrespective of symptoms, according to the Health Department guidelines issued on Sunday. The additional guidelines were issued to facilitate strict adherence to testing and quarantine strategies for COVID-19 management. With the State being classified into eight zones for the purpose of travel, those moving from one zone to another will have to mandatorily register their details online athttps://tnepass.tnega.organd obtain an e-pass. Such persons will be tested only if they show symptoms. Asked how a person would be identified for testing, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said that since the districts were divided into zones, the entire process would be digitally managed. “Since every traveller needs a T.N. e-pass, they have to apply for it, and this will automatically go to the dashboard of the District Collector. The Collector’s office will then pick them up and take them to the nearest testing centre,” she said. All passengers from Chennai who test positive will be sent to hospitals for treatment, as per protocol. “Those who test negative must undergo home quarantine for seven days. If they do not have facilities for quarantine at home, they will have to undergo paid institutional quarantine, as mandated by the government,” the Department said. The individuals concerned must monitor their health for seven days after such quarantine. Those travelling for business purposes and returning to their respective places within 48 hours are exempted from having to undergo quarantine, provided they furnish valid return documents. Inter-State travel As is the case with air passengers, it is mandatory for all train passengers from other States coming into Tamil Nadu to register their details online and obtain an e-pass. All passengers arriving from hotspot States/regions will be tested and sent to hospitals for treatment if found to be COVID-19 positive. Those who test negative must undergo either institutional quarantine or home quarantine for 14 days. People arriving from other States will be tested if they are symptomatic. Those who test positive will be hospitalised and those testing negative will have to undergo institutional quarantine or home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-persons-travelling-from-chennai-to-be-tested/article31718851.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin distributes relief||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday gave away relief materials to thousands of families in several areas across South Chennai as part of 97th birth anniversary celebrations of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi. Mr. Stalin distributed the materials organised by former Chennai Mayor Ma. Subramaniam in Palavakkam, Thirumalai Nagar in Perungudi, Gandhi Nagar in Velachery West, Saidapet East, Sholinganallur, Alandur North and Kalaignar Nagar South, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-distributes-relief/article31718829.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hostels in T.N. to open from June 11||With Class 10 public exams set to commence from June 15 in Tamil Nadu, hostels under the purview of the Backward Class, Most Backward Class and Minority Welfare Department will be kept open from June 11 for students taking up the Class 10, 11 and 12 public exams. The Department has issued guidelines for maintenance of the hostels during the stay of the students, and it has specified that hostels should be disinfected, twice a day. All hostel residents will be screened in the morning and evening using thermal scanners and readings will be recorded in a register. Any student with fever will have to be referred to the nearest government hospital. Wardens have been asked to ensure that students wear face masks and wash their hands regularly, especially when they return from exam centres. Hostel residents are to be accommodated in a way that physical distancing is enforced. Students coming from containment zones will be accommodated separately. On days when there are exams, transport will be arranged for students from the hostel to the centre and officials have been asked to work in coordination with the School Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hostels-in-tn-to-open-from-june-11/article31718860.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police Commissioner visits containment zones||City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan on Sunday inspected and assessed the arrangements made in COVID-19 containment zones around the city. Residents in the containment zones were prevented from crossing the barricades by police who were on round-the-clock duty. The number of containment zones has now reduced to 420 from over 1,150 on Tuesday. Mr. Viswanathan, accompanied by Joint Commissioner of Police (East) R. Sudhakar, inspected V.R. Pillai Street, which falls under Ice House police station limits. He reviewed security arrangements and listened to residents’ grievances. He also inspected Rex Street, Chindatripet, KVB Garden and Abiramapuram. The Deputy Commissioners of Police accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-commissioner-visits-containment-zones/article31718814.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK wants reservation followed in medical admissions||A virtual meeting of the DMK and its alliance parties, chaired by Leader of Opposition M. K. Stalin, on Sunday adopted three resolutions including demanding effective implementation of the reservation policy for MBBS and PG medical admissions under the all India quota. The meeting also criticised the Centre and State for “shortcomings” in the battle against COVID-19 and adopted a resolution demanding repeal of the ‘New Electricity Amendment Bill’ that seeks to do away with free electricity for farmers in lieu of Direct Benefit Transfer. The resolution on medical admissions, said that the MBBS and PG medical seats transferred to the national pool by Tamil Nadu government should be allocated according to the communal reservation policy followed in the State. “The BJP government must allocate 50% of the seats to Backward Classes and Most Backward Classes. The seats for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes should be allocated according to the percentage of reservation applicable in the State,” the resolution read. ‘No timely action’ The meeting criticised both the governments “for not taking timely action despite knowing about the spread of COVID-19” early in January. “The Centre did not provide any cash relief to the poor, farmers, farm labourers, migrants, middle classes etc., and left them in the lurch. The Centre did not provide Rs. 7500 as financial relief to families in the bottom 50% and rehabilitate migrants during the lockdown or increase the number of working days in MGNREGA to 200. However, despite increase in coronavirus cases, the government has removed restrictions and has implemented a lockdown for namesake until June 30,” said the resolution. The resolution also condemned the new Electricity Amendment Draft Bill as it further takes away State’s rights to provide free electricity to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-allies-want-reservation-followed-in-medical-admissions/article31718831.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No need for fresh budget’||The AIADMK government is unlikely to heed DMK president M. K. Stalin’s demand for a fresh budget in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, Ministers have been asked to rework the variable expenditure in their respective departments by at least 25%. “We have all been told to reduce variable expenditure by 25% in our respective departments. All this can be done within the existing framework,” Tamil Development Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan, who initially represented the State in the deliberations of GST Council, told The Hindu . Terming Mr. Stalin’s demand “political”, the Minister wondered if there was any need for presenting a fresh budget under the given circumstances. He pointed out that all his colleagues were re-working the original allocations. In times of a disaster, such as the present one, the government of the day had the authority to spend within its means and borrow within the limits fixed by the Central government, the Minister contended. But, by demanding a new budget, Mr. Stalin was seeking to shift the onus onto the legislature with all its attendant issues, he added. “Asking for transparency in expenditure and income is fair, which we will be able to present before the legislature as early as possible even though not necessarily at this point of time,” Mr. Pandiarajan felt. Last week, the DMK leader sought a fresh budget on the premise that all the budgetary estimates and allocations of the State government, prepared prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, had been rendered irrelevant subsequently. He also referred to the State government’s estimated net outstanding debt of around Rs. 4.56 lakh crore by March 2021. Durai Murugan, Deputy Leader of Opposition and Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, described Mr. Stalin’s demand as one representing a new thinking in the field of State finances. According to him, when the government incurs expenditure, which is of the magnitude of the total allocation made in a full-year budget, it is but “fair and appropriate” on its part to present a new budget before the Assembly. As for the point that any additional expenditure could be covered through supplementary estimates, Mr. Durai Murugan, cited a host of government announcements as its response to the pandemic. The rationale behind the presentation of supplementaries to the House is to cover any shortfall in expenditure of any project or scheme and not for an expenditure of this nature and size, the former Minister observed. C.K. Thamilarasan, a four-time former legislator, of Indiya Kudiyarasu Katchi, however, said the government’s priority should be to attend to the immediate problems of the people. The authorities should also be conscious that the plight of Scheduled Castes is much worse than that of others under the given circumstances. “Anyhow, the government will have to come to the Assembly for approval. At that time, you can also question them [the government] for all their acts of commission and omission,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-a-fresh-budget-ministers-reworking-expenditure/article31718836.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishers stranded in the Andamans return||A total of 43 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, who were stuck in the Andamans for over two months reached Chennai Port on Sunday. They were among 163 persons who were brought back from the islands by the NanCowry ship, said Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar. Seven persons from Maharashtra and two from Goa, who were on board the ship have been sent to the Community Centre at Vepery till arrangements for their trips are made. “All passengers were checked for symptoms and their bags were sanitised. They were then sent to their respective districts on eight buses. They were also provided with food and water,” the Minister said. Around 200 fishers, who were stuck in the Andamans demanded that the government take steps to bring them back. A few days ago, one batch returned by flight to Kochi. They were then sent to their respective villages in Tamil Nadu. Home quarantine “We have been checked for COVID-19 but are under home quarantine,” said Selvam, a fisherman from Cuddalore, who returned from the Andamans by flight. Mr. Jayakumar said efforts were on to bring back fishermen stuck in Iran and other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-stranded-in-the-andamans-return/article31718822.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||For inter-zonal train journeys, e-passes now mandatory||With Tamil Nadu classifying the State into eight zones, the Southern Railway on Sunday said that train passengers travelling from one zone to another, upon arrival, would require an e-pass. A release from the Southern Railway said that rail passengers should regsiter their details online and obtain a T.N. e-pass: “For the movement of rail passengers from one zone to another (other than Chennai), it is mandatory that they register their details online and obtain a T.N. e-pass by applying on the websitehttps://TNepass.tnega.org,” the release said. It added: “For intra or inter-district movement of rail passengers within the zone classified by the government of Tamil Nadu, the T.N. e-pass is not required.” The release added that those who wish to travel from Chennai (zone VIII) to other zones should mandatorily register their details online and obtain an e-pass. As for travelling from other States to Tamil Nadu, registration and e-pass is compulsory. It was also notified that trains like the Coimbatore-Mayiladuturai-Coimbatore (Janshatabdi Special) and Madurai-Villupura-Madurai intercity superfast will be run from June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-inter-zonal-train-journeys-e-passes-now-mandatory/article31718841.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15,299 online complaints received||A total of 15,299 police complaints were received online from across the State during the lockdown, State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) statistics reveal. Of these, action was taken on 85% complaints, the police claimed. Among other cities, Chennai city police topped the list with 2,370 complaints. During the lockdown, the police encouraged the public to lodge complaints online. In 2019, the police received 1,28,596 online complaints across the State. As of March 23, this year 34,316 complaints were received. Compared to the corresponding period last year, the complaints were less. As per statistics of SCRB, from March 24 to May 17, the State police received 15,299 online complaints whereas it was 17,021 in the corresponding period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15299-online-complaints-received/article31718825.ece
01 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Locust attack unlikely in T.N.: TNAU||Tamil Nadu was unlikely to see the locust attack that a few north Indian states experienced, the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has said. The reason for the University saying so was that the locust species that had invaded usually moved along with and not against wind direction and therefore it was unlikely to cross the Deccan plateau to invade Tamil Nadu. The University also said that from the two incidents of locust that had come to its attention – one in the Nilgiris and two in Krishnagiri – the locust was not of the desert variety, the one that had invaded the north Indian states. The desert locust migrated from East Africa and Arabia usually in June-July. But this year the invasion has been a few weeks earlier. It was deadly in that it had swarming behaviour, was a continental trans-boundary pest and very polyphagous. The swarming behaviour meant that in a sq.km. there would be at least 10 million desert locust and it being polyphagous meant that it would voraciously feed on almost any crop. But this was not the case with the locust found in either the Nilgiris or Krishnagiri. Both the locally found locusts would not be more than 50 in a sq.km. As for the locust’s entry into Tamil Nadu being unlikely, the University further said that with the onset of South West Monsoon, the locust could only move either north or east and not turn south. The best way to counter the locust was to let the birds – natural predator – feed on them or use bird-friendly insecticide like Malathion 50 EC. Farmers fearing locust attack would have to mix two to three ml insecticide in 1 litre water and spray intensively on the crops. For further assistance, the farmers could also reach the University’s Agriculture Entomology Department on 0422-6611214, the University added.ss||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locust-attack-unlikely-in-tn-tnau/article31718879.ece
01 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek more support||The industries in the region, from the micro engineering units to small-scale textile mills, have sought more support from the Central and State Governments as workshops, spinning mills and garment manufacturers resume operations after the lockdown. According to the South India Spinners Association president N. Murugesan, with both, the Central and the State governments, requesting all the industries to take care of their migrant workers, all the mills provided food and accommodation to the workers during the lockdown. With the recent relaxations, the migrant workers are returning to their respective States due to uncertainty of the pandemic COVID-19. The mills have no alternative resources for manpower and are struggling to restart production. Further, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation sent electricity consumption bills for the month of April to the mills, with a 90 % payment of MD charges and a hefty fine for not maintaining the Power Factor. “This was completely unreasonable as the textile mills did not shut down to cater to their own interests but followed the Government’s orders to cater to the pandemic.” The textile mills have now approached the courts seeking reduction in the demand charges. While the industries welcome the announcements of the Union Finance Minister, the main request of all the industries to the Government was to waive off the interest for a period of six months and provide interest subvention for one year. However, this was not addressed by the Government, he said. Raja.M.Shanmugham, president of the Tiruppur Exporters Association, said in a press release that after the Finance Ministry’s announcement of stimulus measures for the MSMEs, including 20 % of entire outstanding credit as a collateral free loan, when the exporting members approached the banks to avail of the loans, the banks are insisting to submit Memorandum of Deposit of the Title Deed (MODT) after registering at the Sub-Registrar Office. Mr. Shanmugham said that while registering, the exporting units have to pay the Stamp Duty charges against the loan amount as fixed by the Tamil Nadu State Government. As the MSMEs are currently struggling to meet their financial end due to COVID-19 impact, he requested the State Government to provide one time exemption from the payment of the MODT charges and help the MSMEs. In a joint memorandum to the State Government, 19 industrial associations representing the micro and small-scale industries here sought either waiver or six months time to pay the electricity bill, exemption from MODT to get the benefits from the banks as announced by the Finance Minister, and operation of buses to all districts so that the workers can return to the industries without getting e-passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-seek-more-support/article31718900.ece
01 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Owner gets back his ‘stolen’ bike by parcel service after two weeks||Suresh was skeptical when a parcel service agency called him on Saturday afternoon and said that a two-wheeler was waiting to be delivered at his address. When the 34-year-old owner of a lathe unit at Pallapalayam immediately went to the office of the parcel service, he was asked to pay Rs. 1,400 delivery and packing charges and take the vehicle. The sender had opted for payment on delivery as the value of the parcel was higher than the parcel service charge. Mr. Suresh was pleasantly surprised to see his bike, which went missing two weeks ago, at the delivery section. When he enquired with the parcel service company, all that Mr. Suresh could find out was that the sender had listed Rs. 13,400 as the value of the two-wheeler and hence they allowed payment on delivery. The man had presumably driven to his hometown during the lockdown. The two-wheeler had gone missing on May 18 when it was parked in front of Mr. Suresh’s workshop. Along with a local journalist friend, he went to the Sulur police station where a complaint was lodged. However, the police did not register a case of vehicle theft nor issue a community service register (CSR). “A few days later, surveillance camera visuals from an industrial unit at Pallapalayam showed a tea master of a local shop riding the two-wheeler. We went to his house and found that he had left the house with his wife and child. Some people told us that he went to his hometown Mannargudi, probably riding the stolen two-wheeler,” said Mr. Suresh’s friend. Mr. Suresh did not wish to speak to media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owner-gets-back-his-stolen-bike-by-parcel-service-after-two-weeks/article31718857.ece
01 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s Coimbatore south district secy. held||In a late night development on Saturday, Coimbatore Rural Police arrested DMK Coimbatore south district secretary ‘Thendral’ Selvaraj and his personal assistant Keerthi Anand. Mr. Selvaraj and Mr. Anand were held on various charges, including resisting lawful apprehension, by the police in a case registered against them for allegedly making derogatory remarks about Municipal Administration Minister S. P. Velumani and AIADMK Kinathukadavu MLA A. Shanmugam. The Kinathukadavu police had registered a case against Mr. Selvaraj on May 28 for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mr. Velumani and Mr. Shanmugam, and posting these on social media. According to police, the MLA had, in a complaint, accused Mr. Selvaraj of having spread slanderous remarks that Mr. Velumani and he (Shanmugam) were aiding in the transport of sand, quarry products and liquor in trucks to Kerala via Veerappagoundanur check post. During an investigation, Kinathukadavu police found that the social media posts were made from the mobile phone of Mr. Selvaraj’s personal assistant Keerthi Anand. The police apprehended Mr. Anand from Valparai around 3 p.m. on Saturday. According to police, around 50 people led by Mr. Selvaraj blocked the police vehicle en route to Kinathukadavu near and forcibly released Mr. Anand from custody after assaulting the policemen. The Kinathukadavu police inspector lodged a complaint at the Aliyar police station in connection with the incident and arrested Mr. Selvaraj and Mr. Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-coimbatore-south-district-secy-held/article31718858.ece
01 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NGOs welcome Noyyal rejuvenation project||Non-Governmental Organisations in Coimbatore, Erode and Tiruppur have welcomed the State government’s Rs. 230-crore project to rejuvenate the Noyyal river. The project will help restore the Noyyal river, they said. Expressing their willingness to work with the government, the NGOs sought sewage treatment to be an integral part of the project in order to ensure flow of clean water in the River all through the year. The Kongu Global Forum , representing seven western districts of Tamil Nadu, Siruthuli  in Coimbatore , Olirum Erodu in Erode , Jeevanadhi Noyyal and Vanathukkul Tirupur  in Tiruppur have been making several representations to the State government to initiate a project that will rejuvenate the Noyyal river system and avert a water crisis in the region. Several other NGOs in all these districts have been working for the revival of the river for the last 20 years. “The announcement is a long-awaited one and has brought hope to the people of this region,” the organisations said in a press release. With a lot more to be done, these organisations are now hoping that the announcement of the project will significantly improve the water situation of the Kongu region by enabling storage of rain water and ensuring perennial flow of the Noyyal. Siruthuli has rejuvenated 12 of the 24 Noyyal river system tanks located in Coimbatore district, besides creating new ponds and check dams. This has helped enhance the storage capacity by more than seven million cubic meters, thereby increasing the ground water levels significantly, the press release said. Representatives of the organisations met Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani here on Saturday and thanked him for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-welcome-noyyal-rejuvenation-project/article31718872.ece
01 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Water supply from Siruvani is as usual: Corporation||Coimbatore Corporation through the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board drew from the Siruvani Reservoir the quantity of water that it continued to draw usually during summers, the Corporation said in a release. It had come across news reports that because of the Kerala government carrying out some work in the Reservoir, the city could face difficulty in drawing water. This was contrary to truth. The water that the Corporation drew from the Reservoir would help it meet the city’s needs till the end of June, the release said and added that with the South West Monsoon expected to hit the Kerala coast by the first week of June the city should not face any water problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-from-siruvani-is-as-usual-corporation/article31718871.ece
01 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||2 arrested for poaching wild boar||The Periyanaickenpalayam police arrested two persons who were apprehended by the Forest Department with crude explosives used for hunting wild animals and three live bullets on Saturday. Palanisamy (50) and Vadivelan (38), both hailing from Selvapuram near Coimbatore, were arrested by the police late on Saturday. Double barrel rifle They were apprehended by a Forest Department team earlier on the day with the meat of wild boar, three bullets that are suited for use in double barrel rifle, six country made crude explosive called ‘avittukai’ and two pots of fermented wash which is distilled to make arrack. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that a case was registered by the Forest Department against the duo for poaching. A fine of Rs. 5,000 each was imposed on them. The two men were handed over to the Periyanaickenpalayam police as they possessed live bullets, crude explosives and fermented wash. The police and Forest Department could not trace a rifle from them.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  In another incident, the district forest department fined a farmer for hunting spotted deer near Attur for its meat. According to forest department officials, they found that the farmer K. Manikam hunted a spotted deer with country gun and was found slaughtering it. On investigation, officials found that Manikam had hunted the animal for organising a feast for his relatives as part of his daughter’s wedding which was held recently. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said that a fine of Rs. 50,000 was imposed on the offender and about 40 kg. of meat was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-arrested-for-poaching-wild-boar/article31718878.ece
01 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man dies of electrocution||A 40-year-old man from Edayarpalayam was electrocuted after he accidentally stepped on a live electric wire in the early hours of Saturday. The incident took place when the victim T. Duraisamy was returning home after fishing at Perur tank. The police said that Duraisamy and his friend John Peter went to the tank for fishing late on Friday. While returning Duraisamy stepped on the live electric wire that was lying on the ground near Karuppannagounder Thottam, said the police. He died while being rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-of-electrocution/article31718877.ece
01 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Arrested||The Podanur police arrested one more person in connection with the assault on Sundarapuram area secretary of the RSS N. Suryaprakash (26) at his shop on Madukkarai Market Road on March 11. M. Jaffar Sadiq, a member of Social Democratic Party of India, was arrested on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrested/article31718895.ece
01 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation commences smart city projects with minimum workers||Various projects under Smart City mission of the Erode Corporation that were halted for over two months due to 19 lockdown resumed here with minimum workers. The corporation is currently implementing projects worth Rs. 916.08 crore, including development of Perumpallam Canal, modernisation of E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market Complex (Gani market), implementing dedicated water supply scheme, revamping the existing dumped garbage by bio-mining method, developing green space and establishing smart classrooms in schools. Of the 23 projects proposed, one has been completed while 14 projects are being executed at Rs. 658.68 crore. After positive cases were reported in the city, all the ongoing works were halted on March 10. With the State government relaxing norms for construction activities, the corporation has asked contractors to resume work. Since most of the workers could not arrive at the work place due to absence of public transportation, the works resumed with one-third of workers. Works under two packages to develop Perumpallam Canal, bio-mining works at Vendipalayam, construction of modernised hub on Gani Market premises and Underground Sewerage Scheme works began with available workers. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the contractor would be given additional three months to complete the work as they could not carry out the work due to lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corporation-commences-smart-city-projects-with-minimum-workers/article31718864.ece
01 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom units in Erode seek orders for free dhotis, saris production||With cloth merchants not turning up due to lockdown and fabrics stocked up, power loom owners in the district urged the State government to issue orders for manufacturing free dhotis and saris to reduce their losses. About 55,000 power loom units function in the district of which 25,000 units produce free dhotis and saris while 20,000 units produce rayon fabric and the rest produce cotton fabric. The industry provides jobs to over one lakh people directly and indirectly. Due to lockdown, the units were closed from the second week of March and resumed operations last week adhering to the norms that they would operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and not employ workers from other districts. Merchants from across the country purchase the rayon and cotton fabrics that came to a halt from March. “We purchased yarn at Rs. 230 per kg in February and made fabric. But, now the yarn price had dropped to Rs. 148 a kg,” said L.P. Balasubramanian, secretary, Lakkapuram Power Loom Owners Association. He added that fabrics were kept in stock for three months and expressed uncertainty over resuming business activities. “With more COVID-19 cases reported across the country, our business is hit hard,” he said and wanted the government to release orders for making dhotis and saris, which is usually released in August every year. He also wanted power tariff for low tension category 3A2 and power concession in tariff for power looms to continue. Shanmugam, a power loom owner, said that units should be allowed to operate round the clock and only if merchants placed orders, the industry could survive. “Workers have already borrowed much money in two months and if the situation continues, they could fall into a debt trap,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-units-in-erode-seek-orders-for-free-dhotis-saris-production/article31718866.ece
01 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||One-way traffic system on Mettur Road causing hardship, say motorists||The one-way traffic system introduced on Mettur Road recently has not gone well with the motorists and traders who said that the system is causing only hardship to all the road users. The district police in a press release said that to reduce congestion on the arterial stretch and also help the 108 ambulances reach hospitals at the earliest, one-way traffic system is introduced. While vehicles from GH Roundabout are allowed to proceed towards Swastik Corner, vehicles are not allowed from Swastik Corner to reach GH Roundabout. Instead vehicles have to take Sathy Road, Nachiappa Road, and Meenatchi Sundaranar Road and reach GH Roundabout. “Only ambulances are allowed to ply from Swastik Corner to GH Roundabout”, the release said. Commercial establishments were present in large numbers on both sides of Mettur Road making it one of the busiest stretches in the city. Also, many small roads connect Mettur Road with Nachiappa Road where workshops and other shops are present in large numbers. Concrete medians were placed at many places and police personnel were posted to prevent motorists from moving in the wrong direction. T. Vignesh, a motorist, said that after visiting a shop on Mettur Road near GH Roundabout, he has to take extra two km. again to reach GH Roundabout. “There are no pavements or dedicated parking slots allotted by the establishments. Instead, hardship is caused to the motorists”, he added and wanted haphazard parking on the road to be regulated. Many traders said that they had reopened their business after two months and one-way traffic system on the arterial road will affect their business a lot. “It will be a big blow to us as people could avoid using the road”, said a showroom manager, speaking on anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-way-traffic-system-on-mettur-road-causing-hardship-say-motorists/article31718862.ece
01 June 2020||KUDANKULAM,TAMIL NADU||Power output halted at Kudankulam||Power generation at Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant was suspended from 1 a.m. on Sunday. According to official sources, power generation began in the first reactor on May 14. Even as the reactor was in the process of generating 420 mega watt, it had to be suspended for annual maintenance. The second reactor functioned in full stream generating 920 mw power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-output-halted-at-kudankulam/article31719151.ece
01 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bleak future for standalone theatres?||Standalone theatre owners in Madurai say for the next six months in the post-lockdown period business looks bleak for them. Though theatres are already working towards creating a safe environment for patrons, there might be lower patronage post-lockdown, they say. M. Rathinakumar, executive member of Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association, says there are around 40 standalone theatres – many of them small – in the city. All the theatres are regularly being cleaned and maintained, even during the lockdown, says R. Ramesh, proprietor of 110-year-old Thanga Regal theatre. “To create a safe movie-watching experience, we have planned to install disinfection machines, so that all the patrons are disinfected before they enter the theatre. To avoid crowding at the food and beverages section, they will be delivered to their seats,” he says. R. Kannan, proprietor of Devi-Kalaivani theatre in Tirunagar, says the auditoriums and toilets will be thoroughly disinfected after each show. Wearing face masks will be mandatory. “But, almost all the standalone theatres have centralised air conditioning in view of the competition from multiplexes. Screening movies without air conditioners would be a tough task,” he says. The theatres are also ready to function with 30% occupancy as a means to ensure physical distancing, says Mr. Rathinakumar. “But, with fixed ticket prices, theatre owners could suffer loses, especially for the movies of big stars,” he says. Despite these safety measures, there might be lower patronage as the footfall had gradually come down over the years, he says. “There are good crowds at theatres only when movies of big stars are released,” he says. “It would take at least six months to instil confidence in movie lovers that theatres are a safe environment. Also, there is stiff competition from online platforms and websites,” says Mr. Rathinakumar. But, with the resumption of post-production work, the theatre owners are hopeful that movies will be released within the next few months, says Mr. Kannan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bleak-future-for-standalone-theatres/article31719109.ece
01 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Scheduled Caste man and friend attacked by gang||Sivanraja (38) of Vadakampatti under Chekkanoorani police station limits in Madurai Rural police district, a member of a Scheduled Caste, was attacked by a five-member armed gang on May 27. Mr. Sivanraja has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai with injuries. According to A. Kathir, Executive Director of Evidence, an NGO, Mr. Sivanraja, employed in Coimbatore, had returned home due to the lockdown. On May 27, he had purchased things and was waiting at a bus shelter along with his friend Prabhu. A five-member gang reached the spot and asked Mr. Sivanraja where he was hailing from. When he told them that he was from Colony Street, the gang abused him for sitting in the bus shelter. “They said SC people could not sit in the shelter,” he said in his complaint. Mr. Sivanraja and his friend tried to run away from the spot. But, the gang pelted them with stones, in which Mr. Sivanraja sustained bleeding injuries. A fact-finding team from Evidence, which visited the village on Friday, said untouchability still prevailed on a ‘very high’ scale in Usilampatti block. The Collector and the Superintendent of Police should have visited the village when the crime was reported as per a Supreme Court order. The team demanded Rs. 3 lakh as compensation for Mr. Sivanraja and urged the police to arrest the accused immediately. Mr. Kathir said this was the fourth incident reported in the district in the last 30 days. Chekkanoorani police have registered cases under IPC Sections 147, 148, 294b, 324, 506 (2) and under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A special team had been formed to arrested the accused, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scheduled-caste-man-and-friend-attacked-by-gang/article31719113.ece
01 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai hairdresser comes in for high praise from PM||It was a regular Sunday morning for C. Mohan at his salon in Melamadai, Madurai. But things changed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to his contribution in his monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat.  In the course of his speech, the Prime Minister praised Mr. Mohan for feeding the needy during the lockdown, spending Rs. 5 lakh that he had saved up for his daughter’s education. “As news spread, people started thronging our house. When people expressed their gratitude, it was worth more than any amount of money,” Mr. Mohan said. The sight of people starving and pleading for help during the lockdown deeply affected M. Nethra, 13, Mr. Mohan’s daughter. “She insisted that we give away the money we saved for her education. She told us that she would study hard and become an IAS officer to serve society,” he said. Despite having no income during the lockdown, the family donated rice, vegetables and groceries to nearly 1,500 families. Apart from the savings for his daughter’s education, Mr. Mohan pledged his wife’s jewellery to continue feeding the poor. “So far, we have donated around Rs. 8.5 lakh to the needy,” he said. Mr. Mohan said that he had a habit of saving a portion of his daily earnings. “A few years ago, I was cheated by some acquaintances who took away Rs. 30 lakh, which was my hard-earned savings. At the time, I was left with no money and struggled to feed my family. When people asked for help during the lockdown, I could completely understand them because I too have experienced hunger,” he said. Mr. Mohan started saving for his daughter’s education in 2013. “Our experiences have taught us that money is just a part of life and is temporary in nature. Since we had some money saved, we gave it away to the poor,” he said. With his salon operational for over two weeks now, the footfall is gradually improving, he said. “Our aim is to help more people in other areas,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-hairdresser-comes-in-for-high-praise-from-pm/article31718843.ece
01 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Grit and compassion drove him on||When the lockdown was announced following the outbreak of COVID-19, not many bus drivers were willing to turn up for special duty. But there were some who did volunteer to drive the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses. One among them was A. Sakthivel, 44, who volunteered to drive the special bus operated for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. The fear during the initial days of the lockdown was so much that TNSTC officials were unable to find drivers for the special services, leading to buses missing the scheduled timings. “I took it up not as a challenge, but as my contribution to overcome an unprecedented crisis,” says Mr. Sakthivel. After he worked for 50 days, officials forced him to go on leave for a week. He operated the special service between Alagarkoil and GRH at Goripalayam. From setting out early in the morning till bringing back the vehicle to the depot late in the night, Mr. Sakthivel took every challenge from personal safety to stiff opposition from family members in his stride. “My family members were against my taking up the work as they were concerned about my safety,” he recalls. “When I saw the plight of the h uge number of patients seeking medical intervention, I thought what will happen to poor people if the doctors and nurses do not reach the hospital on time. This kept me going for work for 35 successive days,” says Mr. Sakthivel, a father of two children. Till then, the buses were driven without a conductor. After the second lockdown, crew members came forward to operate the buses. It was then that the officials forced him to take a one-day break, as it would be against labour norms to work without the mandatory break. But Sakthivel turned up at K. Pudur depot after a day’s break. The bus being the only mode of transport for many staff, Mr. Sakthivel soon became close to them. “They gave their phone numbers and will call me to check the location of the bus. On many occasions, the bus will wait for the staff,” he says. They will also inform him about their day off so that the bus need not wait for them. A regular on the Madurai-Tirunelveli bypass rider service, he chose to drive the city bus. “These 50 days gave immense satisfaction. I did not work expecting any incentive from the government. Even if I am offered an incentive, I will give it to the CM Public Relief Fund,” he says. Did long hours of work and the scorching summer heat bother him? He says it’s nothing compared to the layers of personal protective equipment worn by doctors and nurses working in the coronavirus ward. “After a week of isolation at hotel, they go home after being at work for 14 days. My work is nothing when compared to their dedication,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sakthivel-took-the-wheel-with-purpose/article31718834.ece
01 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines for rail passengers||Madurai division of Southern Railway has issued the following guidelines for passengers to follow at railway stations while boarding special trains to be operated from Monday on Madurai - Villupuram and Tiruchi-Madurai-Nagercoil sections: Passengers have to reach the stations 90 minutes in advance and they will be compulsorily screened. Only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the train. During entry, boarding and travel, passengers must observe social distancing and wear face covers or masks. Only those with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the station. Movement of passenger and driver of the vehicle transporting him to and fro the railway station are allowed on the basis of the confirmed ticket. On arrival, the passenger must follow health protocols pertaining to the destination station. Passengers have to bring their own food to avoid risk of infection. For intra or inter-district movement of rail passengers within the zone classified by the Tamil Nadu government, TN-ePass is not required. But for movement from one zone to another (other than zone 8), it is mandatory that rail passengers register the details online and obtain TNepass by applying on the websitehttps://TNepass.tnega.org For movement from other States to Tamil Nadu by regular train services, TNepass is mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-for-rail-passengers/article31719122.ece
01 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineering student wins bounty for spotting Facebook bug||T.K. Kishore, a final-year-engineering student from Madurai, recently received $1,000 as a bounty from Facebook for finding a bug in one of the tools which undermined the privacy of the user. Mr. Kishore says it was during the lockdown period that he discovered this bug in Facebook in the Rights Manager tool which helps in uploading, monitoring and protecting video content, including live stream videos, on online platforms. This tool helps in identifying copyright infringement. Mr. Kishore, who is the Director of The360Group, a start-up that produces entertainment content for online platforms, also uses the tool for his work. “Whenever any of our original video gets uploaded by someone else, we get a notification on our dashboard. But by clicking the ‘give permission’ option I was able to identify the uploader’s profile,” he says. “Since it undermines the privacy of a user, I reported this bug under the Whitehat Program of Facebook. Initially, they rejected my request. Then, I again explained to them in detail about how the bug undermined privacy. Finally, on May 28 I received a notification saying that my report was correct and then they awarded me the bounty,” he says. Since school days, cyber security was a major area of his interest, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-student-wins-bounty-for-spotting-facebook-bug/article31719121.ece
01 June 2020||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports 10 fresh cases for second day||For the second consecutive day, 10 persons tested positive for COVID–19 in Madurai district on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 269. The fresh cases included a 41-year-old frontline worker from Chennai residing at Kulamangalam and a 55-year-old railway A/C mechanic from West Anuppanadi. Both were home-quarantined. Three children – an 11-month-old girl, a 10-year-old boy and a 13-year-old girl – were among those who tested positive. The fresh cases were from Avaniyapuram, K. Pudur, Oomachikulam, Samayanallur, Kulamangalam and Anuppanadi. According to the State medical bulletin, six persons were discharged from hospital on Sunday. The number of active cases now is 102. Virudhunagar district recorded two fresh cases. Sources said a couple who returned home from Chennai tested positive. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 123, including 90 from other districts and States. The number active cases is 65.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-reports-10-fresh-cases-for-second-day/article31719118.ece
01 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Mango pulp unit at Nagapattinam all set to begin operation||The Nagai Organic Farmers Producer Company is looking forward to initiating production of mango pulp during June at the extraction unit it had established last year with government support at Kameswaram village in Keelayur taluk. The fruit pulp extraction unit launched last August by Textiles Minister O. S. Manian has a capacity to process 3,000 tonnes of mangoes every year. Since several thousands of mango trees were uprooted in coastal villages due to Gaja cyclone, the farmer producer company has been pushed into a situation of procuring mangoes from other places, including Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts and Natham in Dindigul district. “It will take three to four years before ensuring adequacy of mangoes from within the district as the fallen trees that have taken roots again have to grow,” Saravanan, Chief Executive Officer of the Nagai Organic Farmer Producer Company told The Hindu . The fruit pulp extraction unit has been a long-felt need of the farmer community for securing the right price for the horticultural products. “The machinery and the processes will be the same to process guava and other fruits grown in the district, besides tomato,” Mr. Saravanan said. The trial run was successful, and the company was hopeful of operating the unit profitably, he said. The 3,000 members of the Nagai Organic Farmer Producer Company and Thirumuraikadu Kadalora Vivasayigal Kotaimaippu have together contributed a little over Rs. 70 lakh for the Rs. 9.34 crore project monitored by the Agricultural Marketing Department. Over the last two months, the functionaries of the farmer producer company had fulfilled the requirement for patta transfer of the land on which the production unit has been established. The patta transfer is a pre-requisite for the company to secure licence and obtain bank loan for commencing production activity. The machinery installed in the unit has a capacity to process six tonnes per hour. The seasonal activity is expected to provide employment to not less than 150 persons besides ensuring satisfactory procurement price for mango growers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mango-pulp-unit-at-nagapattinam-all-set-to-begin-operation/article31719149.ece
01 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||9, including Jipmer doctor, test positive||Nine persons, including a Jipmer doctor, tested positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said at a press conference that the new cases were from Solai Nagar (Muthialpet), Annai Teresa Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Periakottakuppam, Kombakkam and Vadamangalam. All vehicular movement, movement of public transport and persons have been restricted. With new cases emerging from different localities, the number of containment zones has increased to 23. The lockdown regulations would continue in containment zones till June 30, Mr. Mohan Kumar said. According to a Jipmer official, the infected person was a resident doctor posted in the COVID ward. At present, nine COVID-19 patients are under treatment at Jipmer while 36 are hospitalised at IGMCRI and one woman from the city is under quarantine in Salem. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the UT stands at 46, while the cumulative total is 69, with 23 discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-including-jipmer-doctor-test-positive/article31718838.ece
01 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Domestic flight service after June 8’||Domestic flights from Bengaluru and Hyderabad will be resumed once the new set of lockdown relaxations take effect after June 8, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. Addressing a press conference, he said entry of people from other States by road would continue to be subject to some regulations and would be relaxed in a phased manner. While places of worship, hotels, shopping malls, the Promenade beach and the Bharathi Park would be opened after implementation of social distancing norms and wearing of masks, theatres, bars, gyms, swimming pools and auditoriums would remain shut. The government will hold consultations representatives of government and private schools to frame guidelines for reopening the institutions, the Chief Minister said.  Entry of people from other States by road will continue to be subject to some regulations V. Narayanasamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/domestic-flights-to-resume-after-june-8-cm/article31718852.ece
01 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Duo from city held for conning woman||A man posing as a government officer and his accomplice, a government employee, both from Chennai, were arrested for conning a woman in Ramanathapuram by promising government jobs for three of her relatives. The District Crime Branch (DCB) police in Ramanathapuram booked A. Prakash alias Navappan, 25, and his accomplice George Philip, also from Chennai, on charges of cheating (Section 420 IPC) and breach of trust (Section 406 of IPC) and seized Rs. 15 lakh in cash from them on Sunday. George worked as an assistant in the Department of Health and Family Welfare. According to the police, the victim J. Daisy, 61, was an acquaintance of George. He told her that he would find employment for her son-in-law and two other relatives, through Prakash, who he claimed was a deputy secretary in the Tamil Nadu Public Services Commission (TNPSC). He asked Ms. Daisy to meet Prakash at the Secretariat in Chennai and pay him Rs. 15 lakh to get her relatives employed. However, when the duo began pestering her about the advance payment, she approached the police. On Saturday, when Prakash and George came to Ramanathapuram to collect the money, the police detained them for questioning. During interrogation, they found that Prakash was a fraud and possessed several fake car passes. Police said he printed visiting cards with the designation of deputy secretary in the Department of Energy and TNPSC. They found blank letter pads printed in the name of a Lok Sabha MP and a few community certificates issued under different names in his vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duo-from-city-held-for-conning-woman/article31718816.ece
01 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Kandhampatti flyover work nearing completion in Salem||The work on flyover, constructed at a cost of Rs. 33 crore at Kandhampatti junction, is expected to be completed in a month, officials said. The Kandhampatti junction is one of the busiest junctions located on Salem-Kochi National Highway and villagers and motorists have been demanding for steps to ease traffic movement in the junction. Besides highway motorists, villagers on both sides of the Highway, who were moving towards Salem, were also affected and this often led to traffic congestion. Officials form National Highways Authority of India said that the works resumed following relaxations in lockdown and construction are being carried out with minimal number of workers. According to officials, about 60 workers are involved in the construction following all safety guidelines. According to officials, the major structural works of the flyover is over and works for barriers and approach road to the flyover is progressing. Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami laid the foundation for the project in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kandhampatti-flyover-work-nearing-completion-in-salem/article31718870.ece
01 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Siblings’ honesty||The Salem City Police on Saturday appreciated two sisters for their honest act as they handed over Rs. 10,000 that was left unattended at an ATM here. S. Ajji Darshini and Theji Darshini, studying at a private school, went to an ATM where they found Rs. 10,000 left unattended in the machine. They went to the office of the City Police Commissioner and handed over the money to Deputy Police Commissioners P. Thangadurai and S. Senthil. The officials appreciated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-honesty/article31718867.ece
01 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon preparedness reviewed||Salem Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh held a meeting with officials from all zones and reviewed the preparedness for south west monsoon. According to a release, Mr. Sadheesh advised the officials to desilt drains and water channels. They were told to identify school buildings, community and wedding halls to set up relief camps and keep generators ready. They had been asked to avoid stagnation of rainwater on roads and roadsides and take remedial measures to prevent water stagnation. Mr. Sadheesh said that roads would not be dug during the monsoon period to lay pipelines for telecommunication cables. Relief teams had been formed in each zone under Assistant Commissioners and they had been asked to identify required number of relief vehicles, the release said. According to the officials, primary health centres have been advised to keep sufficient stock of medicines and a control room will be set at the Salem Corporation office to monitor relief works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-preparedness-reviewed/article31718868.ece
01 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man kills father||A 35-year-old man in an inebriated condition killed his father here on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Sithamalai (75) living with his son Periyasami at Sikkampatti. The police said Sithamalai reportedly used to ask money from passers-by and this irked Periyasami. On Saturday, a quarrel occurred between them and Periyasami, who was drunk, attacked Sithamalai with a wooden stool. He died on the spot. Neighbours alerted the police and personnel from Veeranam police station arrested Periyasami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-kills-father/article31718875.ece
01 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three shops burgled||Three mobile phone accessories and service stores near the new bus stand were burgled by miscreants. The police said the three mobile stores operating in a row at Veerapandi Nagar were burgled on Saturday night. The public noticed the shutters of the shops open on Sunday morning and alerted the Pallapatti police. The police have collected CCTV footages from the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-shops-burgled/article31718874.ece
01 June 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||38 cases registered in Namakkal||The Namakkal district police on Saturday registered 38 cases against 87 persons for violating prohibitory orders and detained nine vehicles here. The Salem City police registered 51 cases and detained two vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-cases-registered-in-namakkal/article31718893.ece
01 June 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramathu works launched in Sivakasi||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Sunday formally launched kudimaramathu works to be taken up in 40 tanks in the district at a cost of Rs. 16.75 crore. The Minister, along with Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, flagged off the works at Enjar Naduvapatti tank and Pudukottai Periyakulam tank in Sivakasi. The Minister said 22 works at a cost of Rs. 7.18 crore under Rajapalayam Upper Gundar Basin Division, 10 works at a cost of Rs. 6.24 core in Kariyapatti sub-division of Madurai Gundar Basin Division and eight works at a cost of Rs. 3.32 crore under Virudhunagar Vaippar Basin Division would be taken up. Works such as strengthening of tank bunds, repair and reconstruction of sluices, repair of weirs, desilting of supply channels, removal of encroachments and survey of boundaries of tanks and marking with pillars would be done. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has sanctioned the works that will help in irrigation of 5,187.07 hectares of farm lands in the district,” he said. The works were being implemented by registered farmers’ associations having more than 51% of water users. While the government would give 90% of the funds, the rest had to be contributed by ryots. Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar, Public Works Department Executive Engineer (Vaippar Basin Division) Gurusamy and Sivakasi Tahsildar Venkatesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kudimaramathu-works-launched-in-sivakasi/article31719100.ece
01 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Online faculty development programme||The Government College of Engineering, Thanjavur, will be hosting the AICTE Training and Learning Academy sponsored online faculty development programme (FDP) on Quantum Computing from June 1. Around 180 participants from various parts of the country have confirmed their participation in the five-day event to be conducted using GMEET video conferencing tool. Quantum computing has become an important research topic in public and as well as private sector companies attempting to solve the problems that are intractable for the present day computers. The online FDP sessions would be handled by experts from various institutions such as IIT, IMSc and Engineering Colleges functioning in different States. The programme would be inaugurated on Monday at 10 a.m. by the Commissioner, DOTE-Chennai, K.Vivekanandan, where the faculty member, Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, C.M.Chandrashekar would be delivering the special address, according to a GEC press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-faculty-development-programme/article31719142.ece
01 June 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Cardamom farm workers hold protest at Gudalur||Cardamom growers and farm workers from the district, who work in estates in Idukki in Kerala, staged a silent protest at Gudalur on Sunday. The protestors said they were awaiting a solution that would help them return to work. The cash assistance and essential goods distributed by the State government were not sufficient. Representations to Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and Theni Lok Sabha MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar had not fetched any desired result till date, a protestor told reporters. The farmers said it was essential to start plucking as the plants had been hit by pest. Before the southwest monsoon arrived in full strength, pesticide had to be sprayed on them. Otherwise, it would result in a huge loss. A week ago, a delegation met officials, but nothing came out of the meeting. Hence, they decided to resort to silent protest, adhering to physical distancing and other guidelines. Meanwhile, a senior official said that while they were ready to grant permission, the Kerala government had reservions due to prevailing pandemic in parts of Idukki district. In fact, representations by the State government with its Kerala counterpart did not yield any clear solution, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cardamom-farm-workers-hold-protest-at-gudalur/article31719101.ece
01 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishing to resume in Thoothukudi today||Fishermen will make their way to sea in 120 mechanised boats in Thoothukudi district on Monday. The boats have been anchored since March 5, when mechanised boat fishermen started an agitation. It was followed by the lock down imposed on March 24 in the wake of the pandemic. About a fortnight later, the annual ban on fishing began on April 15, which ended on Sunday (May 31). The fishermen have stocked diesel, ice and other items, as they are optimistic about a huge catch due to the long hiatus in activity. Out of the 241 mechanised boats in the district, 120 will set sail on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while the remaining will be permitted to fish on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, officials said. Though the government has accorded permission for fishermen to begin fishing from June 1, the community in Rameswaram, Pamban and Thangachimadam hasdecided to stick to its decision to resume activity only on June 15. The decision was arrived at a meeting held last week, Jesu Raj, a fishermen association leader, toldThe Hindu. He says all fishermen have been confined to their homes since March 24 due to the national lockdown. Hence, repairs have to be carried out in a majority of boats that suffered minor damage under the the impact of Cyclone Amphan. Now that the State government has relaxed curfew guidelines, workers can repair the boats. Most importantly, exporters have pleaded their inability to take stocks from fishermen from June 1 as workers in their organisations, who are mostly migrants, have left for their native States. Hence, it has been decided that it may not serve the purpose for fishermen to go into sea from June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishing-to-resume-in-thoothukudi-today/article31719103.ece
01 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Buses to run from today||With the State government announcing further relaxation of curfew conditions, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will resume operation of 150 buses here on Monday. Senior officials held a meeting and asked bus crew to report for work. The services would begin from 5 a.m. After imposition of lockdown on March 24, the bus stand was converted into makeshift vegetable market to ensure physical distancing. Following the decision to resume services, the vegetable market would be moved to new bus stand. On Sunday, Corporation staff disinfected the bus stand . Meanwhile, TNSTC employees staged a demonstration before the depot condemning the government for pay cut during non-operational days. They urged the government to drop the idea of slashing salary and demanded withdrawal of the order. Senior officials held talks with the employees and assured them that their demands would be conveyed to higher-ups following which they dispersed. Reports from other southern districts too announced operation of buses from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. An official in Dindigul region said they had been instructed to operate 50% of the total fleet capacity from June 1 in city, mofussil and ghat sections. Members of CITU on Sunday staged a protest outside the regional office of TNSTC in Virudhunagar district opposing the move to cut salary of employees treating a certain number of non-working days under lockdown as leave. The protest was led by State secretary of CITU (Transport Union) M. Vellaidurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buses-to-run-from-today/article31719105.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bus services to resume today||Bus services that had remained suspended for more than two months due to COVID-19 lockdown are set to resume on Monday by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), albeit in a limited manner. Bus services would be operated from 5 a.m. onwards up to 9 p.m. in Tiruchi district, Collector S. Sivarasu said in a release issued here on Sunday. They have been asked to report for duty at 4 a.m. at their respective depots. The TNSTC, Tiruchi region, would operate 50 % buses in Tiruchi district with 60% of passengers. Of the 330 buses to be operated in the district on Monday, 180 are town buses and the rest mofussil buses. As a precaution against spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the district administration has advised public to wear mask while travelling in buses as a protective measure. The administration has also asked travellers to ensure personal distancing while boarding and alighting from the buses. Standard Operating Procedures had been communicated by the district administration to the heads of bus depots and crew members. Tiruchi district alone accounts for 10 TNSTC depots, including those at Cantonment and Rockfort in city limits, and at Dheeran Nagar, Manapparai, Thuvarankurichi and Thuraiyur in rural parts. A senior TNSTC official said buses would be operated to various places from all the 10 depots in the district from Monday morning. Disinfectants would be sprayed before the buses leave the respective depots, he said, adding that the driver and conductor of every bus would be provided with mask as a protective measure. Hand sanitisers have also been provided at the depots, the official further said. During the lockdown period when services were completely suspended, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation had been operating special services exclusively to transport health department staff from various places in the district to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in the city. To begin with, the buses originating within IV zone will be operated in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. However, they will not enter the limits of other zones. The passengers will have to alight at the border of other zones and if they want to travel to destinations in other zones, they will have to board the connecting buses. The passengers, who intended to travel outside IV zone are required to possess e-pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-to-resume-today/article31719155.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable markets functioning at bus stands to close from today||The temporary vegetable markets at the Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Stand will function at Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar and St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School ground respectively from Monday. The move comes in the wake of resumption of bus service. The temporary markets were set up at various places including Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Stands after the temporary closure of Gandhi Market. It was closed to prevent large-scale gathering of people to buy vegetables. Similarly, all Uzhavar Sandhais (Farmer’s Market) in the district were also temporarily closed from the third week of March. The Uzhavar Sandhais at Anna Nagar, Subramaniapuram and K.K. Nagar were also closed. To facilitate the people to buy vegetables and fruits at different places, the district administration had opened temporary markets. In the absence of public transport, the bays at the bus stands were permitted for occupation by traders. The farmers, who used to bring vegetables for Uzhavar Sandhai, too, started selling vegetables at temporary markets. With the resumption of bus service, it has been announced that the temporary market at Central Bus Stand will not function from Monday. Instead, the Uzhavar Sandhi at Anna Nagar will be opened. Similarly, the temporary market at Chathiram Bus Stand will function from neighbouring playground of St. Joseph/s Higher Secondary School. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that the Uazhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar would start functioning from Monday. Farmers have to ensure social distancing while dealing with customers. They would have to wear masks. Action would be taken against those visiting markets without wearing a mask, he said. As far as opening of Gandhi Market was concerned, the Collector said that the status quo would continue until further notice. The temporary wholesale market at G.Corner would continue at least for a week. Depending upon the emerging situation, a decision would be taken. Meanwhile, with decks cleared for opening of big textile showrooms, utensil showrooms and jewellery marts, the traders are set to resume business from Monday. They have been asked to restrict the customers so as to prevent over crowding. To enforce the restrictions, a leading textile showroom on NSB road has drawn circles in front of the showroom. Many of them have decided to screen customers for fever before entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-markets-functioning-at-bus-stands-to-close-from-today/article31719146.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Eleven test positive, one comorbid patient dies in central region||A patient with comorbid condition died at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital even as 11 patients, including a nurse and a Tiruchi corporation worker rom the central region tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. A 65-year-old man who suffered from hypertension and diabetes was admitted to the Pudukottai GH with difficulty in breathing. According to protocol issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research, a test for COVID-19 was lifted and the patient tested positive. “Although he did test positive for the virus, he did not die from it. The comorbid conditions further complicated his health causing the death,” a senior official at the Pudukottai GH said. Meanwhile, three patients from Tiruchi, four from Pudukottai and one each from Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur tested positive on Sunday. In Tiruchi, three patients, including a nurse at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, tested positive. The nurse, a 37-year-old woman, had been treating patients at the isolation ward for COVID-19 patients. “She is responding well to treatment and there is nothing to worry about,” hospital officials said. The family of the nurse has also been tested. The other two are a 24-year-old man and a 45-year-old man. The 24-year-old returned from another State to the district while the third patient is the corporation worker from Thiruvanaikoil, the official said. Meanwhile, in Pudukottai, four patients – a 64-year-old man, a 46-year-old woman who returned from Maharashtra and a 65-year-old man tested positive. A 16-year-old girl who returned from Chennai also tested positive. While the 64-year-old man is admitted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital, the others are being treated at Ranees Hospital. According to an official district communication, a five-year-old girl has also tested positive in Pudukottai. Although source of her infection is unknown, she is being treated at the Ranees Hospital. In Thanjavur, a 32-year-old man tested positive while in Tirvarur 55-year-old man was found to be suffering from the viral infection. In Perambalur, a 24-year-old man, the son of a patient who tested positive after travelling to Attur in Salem tested positive on Sunday. The patient was in home quarantine until the test results arrived and has now been shifted to the Salem Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital after the test results returned positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eleven-test-positive-one-comorbid-patient-dies-in-central-region/article31719154.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Anna Statue Roundabout gets a trim||Work on reducing the size of the Anna Statue Roundabout, a long-pending demand of the public and traffic personnel alike, began on Sunday evening. The State Highways department, which has undertaken the work had earlier widened a portion of the road from the roundabout to connect to the Chathram Bus Stand. The stretch is frequented by vehicles from Srirangam and from old Karur Road towards Mela Chinthamani and during peak hours, traffic comes to a standstill. The roundabout, which is meant to ensure free flow of traffic, hinders it further, a commuter said. Road blocks would extend up to the Cauvery bridge. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official at the State Highways Department said that a plea was submitted to the District Collector through a former senior traffic police officer. “The Collector’s approval was received and a proposal was sent to the State,” he said. “It is long pending work and is an important requirement,” he added. The roundabout, which currently has a diameter of 20 metres will be reduced to eight metres. The road which curves around the roundabout will also be widened, while the width of centre medians on both sides of the roundabout will be reduced. The cost of the projects is estimated at Rs. 40 lakh, the official said. “Until Sunday, clearing the space around the roundabout, and setting up of barricades was under way. The primary work of reducing the size of it has begun using earthmovers to tear down the existing structure,” he said. The Anna statue and a tiled platform constructed around it will be left untouched without any modifications, the senior official said. The work will be completed in 15 days owing to conducive conditions during the COVID 19 lockdown. Materials are also readily available, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-statue-roundabout-gets-a-trim/article31719148.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown delays manufacture of new steam locos for Nilgiri Mountain Railway||The lockdown clamped in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has delayed the manufacture of two new steam locomotives meant for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here. With production of new steam locomotives yet to commence in view of the restrictions imposed owing to COVID-19, workshop authorities say the dispatch of the first loco may take a long time in the present scenario. The Railway Board, New Delhi, had entrusted the over 80-year-old workshop with the task of manufacturing two new steam locomotives – one oil fired and another coal fired – for operation in the scenic Nilgiri Mountain Railway. Although raw materials required for the production of the steam locomotives were arranged earlier, the COVID-19 lockdown disrupted the entire manufacturing plan process, say the authorities. The workshop which has been carrying out periodic overhaul of passenger coaches and diesel locomotives besides manufacturing container wagons for the Container Corporation of India remained shut for over 40 days from late March in view of the lockdown. It was only early this month that the workshop, with its total workforce strength exceeding 4,000 employees, resumed operations with 50 % of staff and with restricted timings. In view of COVID-19 spread, the workshop has been functioning from 8 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. since then. Night shift has not been allowed as a precautionary measure. The workshop already has in its stable two in-service steam locomotives of Nilgiri Mountain Railway that had come for periodic overhaul before the lockdown. The authorities say they have to carry out at first a periodic overhaul of the existing steam locomotives before taking up manufacture of the two new steam locomotives owing to restricted workforce strength and timings. They expect the first periodically overhauled steam loco to be dispatched in July after which the second loco would be taken up for overhauling. The manufacture of a new steam locomotive would take at least six months, says Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram adding that the first loco is expected to roll out early next year in view of the prevailing situation. Further testing and trials would have to be done before dispatching the new locos. The new steam locos would be manufactured at a cost of Rs. 8.5 crore. Originally, the first of the two locos was scheduled to roll out by December. Post resumption of work early this month, the workshop has dispatched 28 broad gauge passenger coaches after carrying out periodic overhauling with restricted workforce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-delays-manufacture-of-new-steam-locos-for-nilgiri-mountain-railway/article31719141.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Get TN-ePass for inter-zonal travel, Railways tell passengers||Having notified the operation of four special trains within Tamil Nadu from June 1, the Southern Railway has requested passengers to apply for TN-ePass, ahead of their journey, if they were to travel from one zone to another. The railways had announced the operation of Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi specials (except Tuesdays); Madurai – Villupuram – Madurai Intercity Superfast specials (daily); Tiruchi – Nagercoil-Tiruchi Superfast specials (daily) and Coimbatore – Katpadi-Coimbatore Intercity Superfast specials (daily). A press release from the Southern Railway on Sunday said that Tamil Nadu government had announced a set of protocols and guidelines for movement, testing and quarantine of persons from other States to Tamil Nadu as well as for the movement of persons within the State. The Tamil Nadu government has classified the State into eight zones. Accordingly, Zone – I comprises Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode,Tiruppur, Karur, Salem, Namakkal districts; Zone – II encompasses Dharmapuri, Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet, Krishnagiri; Zone-III Villupuram,Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi; Zone –IV Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Tanjore, Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukottai; Zone – V Dindigul, Madurai, Theni, Virudhunagar, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram; Zone – VI Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi; Zone –VII Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengallpattu and Zone -VIII Chennai Police Commissionerate limit. The Southern Railway release said for intra or inter-district movement of rail passengers within the zone classified by the State government, the TN-ePass was not required. For movement of rail passengers from one zone to another (other than zone 8), it was mandatory that rail passengers register the details online and obtain TN-ePass by applying on the websitehttp://TNepass.tnega.org It further said as per the requirement of the State government, passengers should carry the details of PNR number of their ticket, name, address and phone numbers written / printed on a white paper. The details should be furnished for all passengers booked under each PNR and handed over to officials nominated by the railway administration at the time of boarding at the originating station. Meanwhile, advance bookings commenced at Tiruchi Junction for the special trains. Markings had been made at the passenger reservation counters at Tiruchi Junction to ensure personal distancing of public when they wait to book their tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-tn-epass-for-inter-zonal-travel-railways-tell-passengers/article31719157.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Three women charred to death||A woman and her two daughters were charred to death inside their house in Bharathi Nagar, Poolangudi Colony on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Sunday. The police, based on preliminary inquiries, suspect the women could have ended their lives by opening the LPG cylinder valve and setting fire dejected over the death of a family member, Vijayakumar, 28. Police recovered the bodies of Vijayakumar, his mother Gowri, aged around 50, and sisters Vijayalakshmi, 26, and Vijayavani, 24. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-women-charred-to-death-in-tiruchi-police-suspect-suicide/article31718859.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Three charred to death||A woman and her two daughters were charred to death inside their house in Bharathi Nagar, Poolangudi Colony on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Sunday. Police, based on preliminary inquiries, suspect the women could have ended their lives by opening the LPG cylinder valve and setting fire dejected over the death of a family member, Vijayakumar (28). Police said shortly before the fire was noticed by neighbours on Sunday evening, the family members had called a 108 ambulance to take Vijayakumar, who was recently injured in an accident, to the hospital. But he died before the ambulance arrived. Police recovered the charred bodies of Vijayakumar, his mother Gowri, aged around 50, and sisters Vijayalakshmi (26) and Vijayavani (24). Fire fighters and police said the two cylinders inside the house were intact and indicating that the women had set themselves ablaze. Further investigation is on. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-charred-to-death/article31719152.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.9 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 3,140 cusecs and the discharge was 999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31719159.ece
01 June 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic leaves potters broken||While the State government has eliminated procedural delays in granting permission to take silt from dry water bodies, the pottery industry is all but broken by the lockdown due to lack of fresh orders from domestic and foreign buyers. The industry’s prime hardship — getting permission from the Department of Mines to take silt from dry water bodies — was effectively addressed when the government allowed potters to take clay from water bodies where kudimaramathu work was in progress for deepening them. Hence, when the scheme, introduced by K. Kamaraj when he was Chief Minister, was reimplemented, a major problem faced by potters got resolved. With potters now producing earthenware that are microwave friendly, mud pots to replace plastic cups for curd, bowls to serve different kinds of dishes, bottles and jugs, they are getting orders from foreign buyers, especially from star hotels in the Middle East. As the industry, with adequate stocks of clay in their backyard, was gearing up for summer — the production season — the pandemic threw a spanner in the works. While there are no takers for the products in stock, fresh orders from domestic and foreign buyers too have dried up. The pandemic has affected at least 13,000 people in earthenware industry in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. “It is the toughest situation I have ever faced in my life... There are no buyers for our products and we are not getting any fresh orders. We have to employ our workers, who will starve otherwise. So, we continue to production with the hope that the relaxation will ensure fresh orders,” says S. Murugan, a leading potter from Kurichi near Melapalayam in Tirunelveli. Two container loads of earthenware such as bowls for non-vegetarian dishes, microwave oven-friendly mud pots for hot biryani and mud pots for frankincense sent by Mr. Murugan to the Middle East got shipped only recently. Relaxation of lockdown restrictions brought more than 60% of the industry immediately on its track and workers have started their activities on a optimistic note. “We are working on an optimistic note though there is no fresh order,” Mr. Murugan said. Another problem that the workers face is non-disbursal of relief. “Even though all of us have registered our names with the welfare board, more than 85% of us have not received relief of Rs. 2,000,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-leaves-potters-broken/article31719097.ece
01 June 2020||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Missing baby traced within hours||The Tirupattur town police traced a three-day-old baby within hours of being kidnapped from a hospital and handed him over to his parents, Resein Sultana and Sheriff, of Krishnagiri district. A woman, who introduced herself as a classmate of the boy’s mother, took him from the hospital under the pretext of showing him to her sister admitted in the same hospital. The mother raised an alarm with the security and medical staff. Superintendent of Police P. Vijaykumar, who visited the Government Hospital, said the baby was traced with a woman on Devanga Street in a few hours with the help of CCTV footage, residents who instantly cooperated and the special police team members who did a good tracking work. The kidnapper, Reheena, was taken to Tirupattur town police station. “The baby is safe and the credit goes to the public who helped police in tracing the baby. We are trying to know the reasons for the kidnap,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-trace-missing-newborn-within-hours/article31718837.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Church priest booked for prayer meeting||The Tiruppur North Police booked around 15 members including a church priest for attending a prayer meeting at a church in Kumar Nagar on Sunday. S. Wilson Kumar (47), the priest, was accused of gathering the prayer meeting at 7 a.m., the police said. The police registered a case under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. All the accused were released on bail later in the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/church-priest-booked-for-prayer-meeting/article31718876.ece
01 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Village Assistant placed under suspension||Dileep, a Village Assistant, was placed under suspension for posting comments on social media against the Central and State government while being a government employee. Udumalpet Tahsildar Jeyasingh Sivakumar issued the suspension order. On May 24, Dhally police registered a case against Dileep under Section 505(1)(b) (Statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code in this regard based on a complaint from Deivakumar, a BJP member from Udumalpet.   Tiruppur North police arrested 11 persons on charges of illegal gambling on Saturday. Cash of Rs. 58,700 was seized from the accused, a press note said. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-assistant-placed-under-suspension/article31718873.ece
01 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Friends come together to rebuild house||When 40-year-old Sivakumar’s dilapidated house at Selakunnu in Uppatty collapsed just two days before the Janata Curfew was enforced on March 22, the father of two, who works as a painter, feared that his family would be rendered homeless. However, hearing about his sad plight, a group of his friends started a WhatsApp group and managed to crowd-fund the construction of his new house in just 45 days. Speaking to The Hindu , M. Sathish, a resident of Gudalur who works at a bank and who has been friends with Mr. Sivakumar since childhood, said that the latter has two children, one of whom is developmentally challenged. “He makes just enough money to cover his son’s medical costs, so we knew that the family was struggling financially,” said Mr. Sathish. After the house collapsed, “I thought that I would be homeless, and would have to put up a tent on the land and stay there,” said Mr. Sivakumar. Hearing that his house had been destroyed, Sivakumar’s friends, Mr. Sathish and D. Girish, established a WhatsApp group, where they appealed for funds from their friends and family all across India and those living abroad. “Initially, we aimed to raise around Rs. 1 lakh to build a shed with a roof, but people who heard of Sivakumar’s story contributed more than what we initially aimed for, and we ended up raising Rs. 4 lakh in just a few days,” said Mr. Girish. Within 45 days, a house with three rooms, a kitchen and a bathroom was completed, and Mr. Sivakumar moved in with his family on Saturday. “I am so thankful to my friends and all the people who contributed to build the house. If not for them, we would probably all be on the street,” said Mr. Sivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/friends-come-together-to-rebuild-house/article31718888.ece
01 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized||More than Rs. 51 lakh in cash was seized from a vegetable truck at the border checkpost at Kakkanallah in the Nilgiris on Saturday. Revenue Department officials said that the unaccounted money was hidden inside a vegetable truck headed from Mysore to the Nilgiris, when it was stopped by police officials at the checkpost. Officials said that the unaccounted money was handed over to the district treasury and will be handed over to the Income Tax department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized/article31718898.ece
01 June 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK engaging impersonators’||Former DMK Minister K. Ponmudi on Saturday charged the ruling AIADMK with engaging impersonators to make false complaints against DMK’s ondrinaivom vaa campaign. He said that Food Minister R. Kamaraj had recently released a video clip questioning the DMK’s campaign. Mr. Ponmudi said that an enquiry conducted by the DMK over the allegation revealed that the petitioner was not a genuine person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-engaging-impersonators/article31718828.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC Coimbatore Division to operate 1,019 buses from today||Following the announcement of State government on allowing operation of buses, the Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) said that 1,019 town and mofussil buses will be operated in four districts from Monday. According to the officials, only 50 % of the total fleet of buses will be operated as per the government directions. The 1,019 buses will comprise 375 buses in Coimbatore Zone, 148 buses in Udhagamandalam Zone, 299 buses in Erode Zone and 197 buses in Tiruppur Zone. On the precautions to be taken, the TNSTC said the passengers will be allowed to enter these buses only if they wear masks, officials said. All drivers and conductors will be wearing masks and gloves. The conductors will also provide hand sanitisers to the passengers inside the buses. The buses will be disinfected after completing every trip. The passengers are also advised to board the buses from the back entrance and exit from the front entrance. In an effort to maintain personal distancing, only 20 passengers will be allowed per town bus and 31 passengers will be allowed per mofussil bus. The buses will run from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. every day. All the bus terminuses will be disinfected every day jointly with local body authorities. On Sunday, Coimbatore Corporation workers disinfected the Central Bus Terminus premises in Gandhipuram. The State government divided the districts into eight zones for transport services on Sunday. Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Erode, Tiruppur, Karur, Salem and Namakkal falls into the first zone, which includes all the four districts under TNSTC Coimbatore Division. The buses will operate within these districts in the first zone and also between the districts in the zone. E-passes are not required for travel within each of these eight zones.  SALEM  The Salem division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation will resume regular operations following relaxations offered by governments. The Salem division of TNSTC includes Salem and Dharmapuri zones and about 1,900 buses are operated here. About 1,010 buses will operated in the division from within the zones prescribed by the State government. According to officials, 397 buses will be operated in Salem, 162 in Namakkal, 208 in Dharmapuri and 243 in Krishnagiri. Senior officials from TNSTC said that buses from Salem will be operated only to Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode, Tiruppur, Karur and Namakkal. In Dharmapuri zone, buses will be operated to Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet and Krishnagiri, officials said. Air-conditioned buses will not be operated and the middle seat in three-seaters will be left empty and only one person will be allowed to sit in two-seaters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-coimbatore-division-to-operate-1019-buses-from-today/article31718886.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrants get help to reach Odisha by train||Call it providence, or just straight-forward human compassion; but for the 11 migrant workers from Odisha, who had walked for over 48 hours from the outskirts of Tiruppur hoping to find a way back home, Krishnagiri was where they could find help to head back home. Having walked for a little more than two days, after they set out from the outskirts of Tiruppur on Friday, Malya Ghantayat and 10 others, including a woman, were spotted by a journalist with an evening daily while walking on the highway in Krishnagiri. He took them to a nearby eatery and arranged for their food. He also posted a photo of their plight in the local news group prompting immediate action from the District Collector S. Prabhakar. Dr. Prabhakar sought out their contact number and arranged for them to be brought to the Collectorate. In the meantime, he also alerted the Collector of Tiruppur. Incidentally, there was train for migrant workers leaving for Odisha from Tiruppur on Sunday night. Immediately, Dr. Prabhakar arranged for a vehicle for the 11 workers, and sent them off to be dropped off at Tiruppur, some 230 km away. Malya Ghantayat’s voice quivered with emotion over phone as he along with the 10 others were being driven back in a comfortable van. “I can’t express how happy I am now. We never imagined we would see our families this soon. We left by foot because we had no information on trains. Every time we went to the Collectorate, police sent us back because of overcrowding. So, we decided to walk to Odisha,” says Mr. Malya. They were employed in a vest printing unit in the outskirts of Tiruppur town until the lockdown. “When the lockdown came, we were paid, and we ate with that money. Soon, we ran out of money. We survived with rations given to us,” he says. As they journeyed, they were filled with gratitude for the sudden turn of fortune that saw them on foot, hungry and thirsty during the start of the day, and then being driven back to a train back home hours later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrants-get-help-to-reach-odisha-by-train/article31718883.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More relaxations as Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 30||Mr. Palaniswami also announced that an honorarium of Rs. 2,500 would be given to each of the 33,000-odd ‘cleanliness workers’, working in the Greater Chennai Police limits. As part of efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the State, when people from crowded areas are moved from their habitation for institutional quarantine within Greater Chennai Corporation limits, a financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 would be granted to them while leaving the camps, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Palaniswami also appealed to the people to extend cooperation to the anti-COVID-19 efforts being taken by the government. He urged them to wear masks every time they step out of their houses and in public places. The Chief Minister also requested people to maintain physical distancing.  An honorarium of Rs. 2,500 will be given to each of the 33,000-odd ‘cleanliness workers’ in Greater Chennai Police limits Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-relaxations-as-tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-june-30/article31718840.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to shift markets||Following the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation’s decision to resume bus service, the Coimbatore Corporation has decided to move the makeshift markets it had helped run from bus stands. Prison ground A press release from the Corporation said that the makeshift markets that functioned out of the Town and Central bus stands in Gandhipuram would henceforth function from the prison ground on Dr. Nanjappa Road. Likewise, the makeshift market at Ukkadam Bus Stand would function from near Lorrypet. In Singanallur, the Corporation said it would move the market from the bus stand back to the farmers’ market (Uzhavar Sandhai). Though the Corporation release was silent on the market functioning out of the Mettupalayam bus stand, sources familiar with the development said the civic body was working with the TNSTC management to find an alternative place and that it would be in a position to move the market in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-shift-markets/article31718881.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel take measures to prevent contracting COVID-19||The Salem City police has set up tents outside its police stations to receive petitions as a precautionary measure towards preventing police personnel from contracting COVID-19 disease. Recently, two accused arrested by the city police under charges of women harassment tested positive for COVID-19 and over 50 personnel from two police stations had to be quarantined at a government facility. To prevent personnel from contracting the disease, the city police has erected tents outside police stations to enquire about complaints and avoid public interaction inside station buildings. T. Senthil Kumar, City Police Commissioner said, “a reception set up has been arranged outside the station building and complaints would be enquired here at all the 18 police stations. A police officer would be available at the desk. An exclusive four-member team has been formed in each station to conduct arrest procedures. He added that all police personnel have been advised to exercise caution while conducting vehicle checks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-take-measures-to-prevent-contracting-covid-19/article31718892.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||MP seeks more trains to connect Virudhunagar, Tenkasi and Kollam||Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore has appealed to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to operate additional trains in Tamil Nadu to provide links on the Kollam-Shencottahi-Sivakasi-Virudhunagar section to help traders and common passengers. In a memorandum, the Congress MP has said that ever since the COVID-19 lockdown was announced in the last week of March no passenger or goods train service was operated on the Virudhunagar-Kollam and Tirunelveli-Tenkasi section. Traders and member of the public living in the towns of Virudhunagar, Tiruthangal, Sivakasi, Srivilliputtur, Rajapalyam, Sankarankoil, Kadayanallur, Tenkasi and Shencottah had suffered due to lack of train services. He said that the Sivakasi Chamber of Commerce had made a representation to him in this regard. Stating that the Railway Board had decided to operate passenger trains in Tamil Nadu, he urged the Railway Minister to give instructions for expeditiously operating train services to connect these towns to help retrieve the economic situation which had been badly affected due to the lockdown. The train services could help save the livelihoods of the common people, he said. Mr. Tagore wanted the Railways to operate Silambu Express, Pothigai Express, Ernakulam-Velankanni link express, Tirunelveli-Tambaram express via Tenkasi, Virudhunagar and passenger trains between Madurai and Shencottah. Based on the State government’s request, Indian Railways will operate four trains in the State including Nagercoil-Tiruchi intercity and Madurai-Villupuram intercity express from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-seeks-more-trains-to-connect-virudhunagar-tenkasi-and-kollam/article31719098.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to boost immunity of the aged||Packets of herbal concoction, ‘kabasura kudineer’ and 10 each of zinc and Vitamin C tablets would be distributed to 95,000 old-age pensioners and persons with disabilities to boost their immunity against COVID-19, said Collector T. G. Vinay while inaugurating the exercise at World Tamil Sangam in the city on Sunday. The Collector said they will be distributed through village administrative officers when the pensioners receive the monthly allowance. Special Tahsildars in charge of social security schemes would oversee the exercise. The cost of Rs. 60 lakh would be met through donations, he said. Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-boost-immunity-of-the-aged/article31719110.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||64 new cases in Salem||As many as 64 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem district on Sunday. Among the positive cases registered in the district, 13 were reported from Salem Corporation limits. Among imported cases, 25 are from Maharashtra, three are from Odisha, two from Karnataka, 15 persons travelled to Salem from other districts and six persons have travelled from six other States. A 25-year-old male, who has travelled to Krishnagiri from Maharashtra tested positive for COVID-19 disease on Sunday. The patient is undergoing treatment at Krishnagiri Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/64-new-cases-in-salem/article31718890.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Doctors give Rs. 1 lakh to MP’s scheme for the needy||Postgraduate students of Aravind Eye Hospital contributed Rs. 1 lakh from their stipend to MP Su. Venkatesan’s Maduraiyin Annavaasal programme here on Saturday. A release said they handed over a cheque to Mr. Venkatesan in the presence of Venkatesh Prajna, Academic Director of postgraduate training programme of the hospital. Every year, the PG students are encouraged to participate in the Resident Social Responsibility programme under which they can explore ways and means to contribute their stipend for a purpose. Under Maduraiyin Annavaasal programme, volunteers from all walks of life identify and distribute food packets to about 5,000 needy and homeless people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-give-rs-1-lakh-to-mps-scheme-for-the-needy/article31719112.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for salons||Coimbatore Corporation has issued a 14-point instruction list for hairdressers and beauty parlours to be followed without violation. A press release from the civic body issued here said the owners should not allow persons with fever, breathlessness or throat infection, not entertain persons from containment zones and also not employ persons with fever or aforementioned symptoms. It also said that the owners should ensure that employees and customers wore mask, note down their name, address and mobile number, insist on customers washing their hands before entering the premises, ensure that employees wear mask, a head gear covering the top and apron, encourage customers to bring their draping cloth and periodically disinfect hair dressing equipment and seat after customers leave the seat. The press release also asked the owners to periodically clean the door, handle, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-issued-for-salons/article31718880.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four air passengers test positive||Four air passengers, who came to Coimbatore International Airport from Chennai and Delhi on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19, according to sources with Health Department. They said that two persons hailing from the Nilgiris who came from Delhi and Chennai, one person each from Namakkal and Tiruppur who came from Delhi tested positive for COVID-19. They were admitted to the Government ESI Medical College and Hospital here, sources added. Health Department was subjecting all the passengers who arrived at the airport from other cities to PCR-based COVID-19 testing since domestic flight resumed on May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-air-passengers-test-positive/article31718897.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four trains operated from Tiruppur Junction||Salem Division of Southern Railway operated four Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction for migrant workers on Sunday. The four trains were bound for Hajipur, Bihar; Malda Town, West Bengal; Muzaffarpur, Bihar; and Balasore, Odisha, which left the junction at around 2 p.m., 6 p.m., 9 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. respectively. Railway officials said that all the four trains ferried 1,600 passengers each. As of Sunday, 25 Shramik special trains have been operated from Tiruppur Junction since the launch of the train services on May 10. The trains were operated to six States namely Bihar (14), Odisha (5), Uttar Pradesh (3), Jharkhand (1), Assam (1) and West Bengal (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-trains-operated-from-tiruppur-junction/article31718884.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The solar street lamp at Karattampatti is in poor shape. The battery has been stolen, rendering the lamp dysfunctional. Though complaints were made to the authorities, there has been no action. The fear of theft prevails due to the pitch darkness at the location during night hours. Residents in the surroundings expect the repairs to be carried out at the earliest. M. Periyamalaiyan  Karattampatti   There are difficulties in travelling from Thuraiyur town to Puthanampatti where a government aided college serves the higher educational needs of students of about 50 villages in the surroundings. Movement of buses has become tough through five narrow culverts in the stretch of keela kunnupatti-Naduvalur cut roads along the 17-km route via Adivaram, Keezhavadi, and Kottathur maintained by State highways department. There has also been an accident involving a school bus and a private bus along the route in recent months. The movement of vehicles being heavy, the narrow culverts must be broadened for the safety of travellers. Saravanan Natesan  Puthanampatti   The road abutting Mangamma Nagar in Srirangam that people proceeding to the Cauvery river for a bath take is in a damaged condition, despite being maintained by the River Conservation wing of the Public Works Department. Motorists lose balance due to potholes on the road. It has to be relaid in the interests of public convenience. T. M. Ranganathan  Srirangam   None knows for how long the COVID-19 pandemic would last. However, bearing some facts on personal hygiene in mind, we must learn to live with it until vaccines are found. It is important to know that COVID-19 virus can be transmitted in areas with hot and humid climates; cold weather and snow cannot eliminate the virus; having a hot bath does not prevent the spread of the virus; it cannot be transmitted through mosquito bites; hand dryers are not effective in killing the virus; ultraviolet radiation will not be effective for disinfection; spraying alcohol or chlorine all the body will not kill the virus; regular rinsing of nose with saline will not prevent infection; and there is no evidence that consumption of garlic will help in preventing the infection. The necessary measures constitute washing hands frequently; maintaining social distancing; avoiding touching of eyes, nose and mouth; practising respiratory hygiene; and wearing of masks or face cover. M. A. Aleem  Tiruchi   Aged people are facing bigger troubles during the lockdown period due to heat, loneliness, and joint pain and other health complications. The agony peaks when the aged people are required to go to the banks and post offices to receive pension. The State Government ought to seriously consider disbursing pension for the elderly population at their doorsteps during the lockdown period. M. Raja  Tiruchi   Departure of North Indian migrant workers who are more productive is a setback to entrepreneurs. The industries stare at the eventuality of facing labour shortage when the lockdown is lifted, since there is no certainty of the return of the migrant workers any time soon. The migrant workers had no option but to leave after exhausting their savings, and the continuous extension of the lockdown period. The industries are bracing up to the situation of underutilisation of installed capacities, which would result in damage to machinery. Kanagaraj Arthur Ramalinganagar South Extension    Customers of LIC have for long been used to receiving instant e-mail acknowledgements for online payment of premium. Of late, however, the acknowledgements have not been sent. Restoration of the earlier system will be appreciated. V. K. Gopalan VOC Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31719144.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Do away with fresh MOD for loans’||Thanjavur The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Thanjavur, has appealed to the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of India to do away the execution of a memorandum of deposit of title deeds (MOD) for availing fresh loans through the Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) facility. In a memorandum addressed to the Union Finance Minister, the CCI office-bearers have pointed out that insisting for a fresh MOD for loans would be a burden for the borrowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-away-with-fresh-mod-for-loans/article31719153.ece
01 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Complaints emerge of errors in test method||Complaints have emerged of errors in COVID-19 testing method adopted by the Belagavi district administration after a woman who had been released from institutional quarantine was found to be carrying the virus. The 30-year-old woman from Turmuri village, who had been sent home from the quarantine centre, was declared positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. She had returned from Mumbai. She spent two weeks in a village school along with 40 others. She was sent home on May 29, but the results arrived on May 30. She has been shifted to the district designated hospital and her family and other primary contacts have been sent back to the institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, KPCC working president and MLA Satish Jarkiholi complained that the officials were not following proper standard operating procedure on testing. He alleged that nearly 600 persons were discharged from institutional quarantine centres in Agasaga and other villages, before their results arrived. “Of these,” he claimed, “two have tested positive.” “What happens to the rest now? Will they be sent to institutional quarantine again? If this is what were to happen, why did the officials release them early? What will happen to those persons who met them after discharge? This behaviour of the officials is irresponsible and foolish,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. Video clips in which local leaders of the BJP and the Congress distributed sweets to those discharged after their release were shared on social media. Two video clips made by youth from Belagavi city and Gokak complaining about the lack of facilities in institutional quarantine centres and about those discharged before test results came were shared on social media on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said that he would inquire into such complaints and see that action is taken against officials if they are found guilty. He also said that the State-level standard operating procedure on testing will be clearly communicated to the officials in charge of quarantine centres. The procedure states that all non-symptomatic cases should be released after 14 days. “We will work towards speeding up the testing process and see that discharge of patients happens only after test results are out,’’ he said. The district has fewer number of active cases than those discharged for over a week now. After 12 persons were released on Sunday, the total number of cured patients is 106 and active cases are 41. A total of 147 persons, including eight from Bagalkot, have tested positive for COVID-19 till now. One old woman with co-morbidities died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaints-emerge-of-errors-in-test-method/article31718960.ece
01 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man injured as rain lashes Belagavi city||Belagavi city received the first heavy rain of the year on Sunday. One person was injured when a wall collapsed in Wadagaon area in the city. Residents complained that gusty winds took away tin sheets of five houses in Shahu Nagar. Water entered houses and shops in Pangul Galli, Bhendi Bazaar, Khade Bazaar and Shahu Nagar. Home-makers struggled to throw out water from their houses using buckets and pots. Some residents of Ranade Colony near Rani Parvati Devi College complained that city corporation officials had not cleaned the drains and roads in their areas and sewage water entered storm-water drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-injured-as-rain-lashes-belagavi-city/article31718962.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven-day institutional quarantine must for those coming from Maharashtra only||Institutional quarantine for seven days will now be mandatory for asymptomatic passengers coming from only Maharashtra. An order issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare states that those coming from Maharashtra will have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine. It has, however, stated that pregnant women, children below the age of 10, those above 60 years, people with serious illnesses or in distress, and those who have had a death in the family were exempted from this and could be subjected to 14-day home quarantine. Prior to this, passengers coming from six States — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh — had to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine followed by a seven-day home quarantine. The order issued on Sunday also states that travellers from Maharashtra who have a COVID-19 negative test certificate from an Indian Council of Medical Research-approved lab that is not more than two days old are exempted from the seven-day institutional quarantine. Similarly, the order states that business travellers coming from Maharashtra should show a COVID-19 negative certificate and a return flight or train ticket that is seven days from the date of arrival. If they don’t have a COVID-19 negative test certificate, they should go for institutional quarantine and get a test done within two days of arrival. They will be exempted from institutional quarantine if their results come back negative. Other States Meanwhile, people coming from other States will have to follow a 14-day home quarantine. If home quarantine is not possible in case they are a large family living in a house without enough separate rooms or in slums/overcrowded areas, they can go for institutional quarantine. Business travellers from other States will have to show a flight or train return ticket and will be exempted from hand stamping and quarantine. The order also states that all travellers will have to mandatorily register on the Seva Sindhu portal before entering Karnataka. Now, however, no approval is required and they have to provide name, address, and mobile number. In rural areas, those under home quarantine will have to give information to two neighbours and a gram panchayat task force will shoulder the overall responsibility. A three-member team in the village will monitor the situation. In urban areas, they will have to inform two neighbours, the residents’ welfare association, apartment owners’ association. A ward-level team will be vested with responsibility. The authorities will file FIRs if there is any violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-day-institutional-quarantine-must-for-those-coming-from-maharashtra-only/article31718770.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police file FIR against BBMP councillor||The Jagajeevanram Nagar police on Sunday registered an FIR against Padarayanapura councillor Imran Pasha for allegedly defying lockdown guidelines and not cooperating when Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and health officials wanted to shift him to Victoria hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Ramesh B. said that following a complaint filed by BBMP officials, Pasha was charged with disobeying government orders, allowing unlawful gathering of people and not maintaining social distancing. He has been booked under Sections 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code. “On Friday, Imran Pasha underwent a test for COVID-19 as he had developed some health issues. The result of the test was given the same day. He tested positive. The BBMP health officials informed the police that they had been trying to contact the councillor as they wanted to move him to a hospital, but his phone was switched off,” Ramesh said. On Saturday morning, a BBMP team, the incident commander (police officer), the assistant commissioner of police and the police inspector tried to reach out to him. “Many of his followers started gathering at the place without maintaining social distancing. It took more than three-and-a-half hours to shift him to Victoria hospital,” he added. Civic officials filed a complaint against Pahsa for not maintaining social distancing and unlawful assembly. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar tweeted: “He resisted appeals by health officials to admit himself to a hospital leading to a large crowd gathering at the spot.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-file-fir-against-bbmp-councillor/article31718759.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU alumni raise funds to help migrants reach home||Joining in citizens’ efforts to help stranded migrant workers reach home, alumni of the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru successfully sent home 180 workers from Mumbai to Ranchi on Sunday. This was the second chartered flight arranged by the alumni between the two destinations; the first one on May 28 helped 174 people reach home. The ‘NLS mission aahan vahaan’ was conceptualised by the NLSIU Bengaluru batch of 2000. One of them, Priyanka Roy, who now has a corporate law practice in Mumbai, told The Hindu that they decided to focus on regions that are not easily accessible from Mumbai. “There is a huge database of workers from every State. We were largely concentrating on the eastern States because they are not easily accessible from Mumbai. On Wednesday, another flight will carry workers from Mumbai to Bhubaneswar,” she said. The alumni ruled out buses and railways as the former would mean long and tedious journeys while the latter would end their intervention with handing over a list of names to the authorities concerned. “We wanted to make a meaningful intervention and fill in the gap. So we started talking to airlines. We decided to charter flights. “The Jharkhand government has been making great arrangements for last-mile connectivity due to which people are able to reach home in 24 hours. We are working with a lot of NGOs too,” Ms. Roy said. On Sunday’s flight, there were infants as young as 17 days old, as well as a senior citizen, who does not even own a phone but was able to reach the airport after a cab was arranged for her. The first flight was entirely crowd-funded by the NLS alumni network, but since then they have been getting funding from corporates and others for subsequent initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nlsiu-alumni-raise-funds-to-help-migrants-reach-home/article31718753.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 toll crosses 50 in State||The total number of deaths in the State due to COVID-19 crossed the 50-mark on Sunday even as Karnataka reported 299 fresh cases — the highest for a day so far. Two new deaths were confirmed. A media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that one of the deceased was a 50-year-old resident of Raichur district who had returned from Maharashtra on May 21 and was quarantined on the same day. He was diagnosed with SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection), severe pneumonia, sepsis, and respiratory failure. He was admitted to hospital on Thursday and died on Friday. The other deceased was a 75-year-old man, who was a resident of a containment zone in Bidar district. He had shown symptoms of fever and breathlessness and had a history of hypertension. He was admitted to a private hospital on May 18 and passed away at his residence on Friday. With this, the total number of COVID-19-related deaths stands at 51, while two patients have died because of non-COVID-19 causes. New cases The total number cases reported on Sunday was 299. Of them, 255 were people who came from other States and seven of them had a history of international travel. The highest number of cases — 83 — was reported from Raichur district, while 44 cases were from Yadgir. On Sunday, 221 patients were discharged from hospital. With this, the total number of cases in Karnataka stood at 1,218. Meanwhile, three healthcare workers who were posted on duty at the COVID-19 isolation ward in Davangere tested positive for the infection. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Davangere rose to 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-toll-crosses-50-in-state/article31718767.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Swami Vivekananda statue opposed||Environmentalists have opposed the State government’s plan to erect a 120-ft statue of Swami Vivekananda at Muthyala Maduvu waterfall in Anekal. Housing Minister V. Somanna announced on Saturday that Karnataka Housing Board would put up the statue on a three-acre plot near the waterfall. The Minister said the Statue of Unity — a 597-ft statue of Sardar Patel in the Narmada Valley — was the inspiration for the project. Environmentalists, however, are unhappy with this decision. Leo Saldanha of Environment Support Group said that in a recent case, the High Court of Karnataka had ordered removal of a Shiva statue in Begur lake in the city on the principle of public trusteeship and held that the nature of the land cannot be changed. “We will fight this proposal,” he said. “Bannerghatta National Park is just a few kilometres away from Muthyala Maduvu. Developing a high-density tourist zone so close to it is not advisable,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swami-vivekananda-statue-opposed/article31718773.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PM to address Foundation Day programme of RGUHS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the inauguration of the 25th Foundation Day of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) on Monday, through videoconference. In probably a first, the entire programme which will be attended by Governor Vajubhai Vala, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, will be held on an online platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-to-address-foundation-day-programme-of-rguhs/article31718783.ece
01 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online classes will marginalise weaker sections: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition and Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday criticised efforts by the Centre to resort to online classes for degree and professional courses in the country in light of COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister’s Office is pushing for online classes, he said on Twitter, adding that the move would “further marginalise the weaker sections” given the digital divide. “A whole generation will be denied of knowledge and opportunities thereafter,” he said. In anothertweet, he said, “Many poor and rural students still lack even a basic mobile. Even if they have a smart phone, adequate Internet speed is still a distant dream. PMO should take cognisance of these issues, review the decision and herald an inclusive society.” Saying that India’s existence was in the villages, he asked where the laptops, computers and smart phones would come from for villagers. “Even if there are phones, where is the Internet network? How will rural students participate in online education? Shouldn’t those who rule the country have this basic knowledge?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-classes-will-marginalise-weaker-sections-siddaramaiah/article31718768.ece
01 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘Help youth kick addiction’||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has urged non-government organisations, the Department of Health and Family Welfare and COTPA officials to give special focus on helping youth to come out of addiction. Speaking after inaugurating a World Anti-Tobacco Day programme here on Sunday, Ms. Deepa said that youth falling prey to addiction is a matter of grave concern. Steps should be taken without delay to free them from this menace and engage them in the task of nation building and create a healthy society, she said. Enlightened people should sensitise youth to keep away from tobacco. To put a ban on sale of gutkha which is largely consumed by youth in North Karnataka, the government has brought into force the COTPA Act and under this act, those selling gutkha can be imprisoned, she added. Ms. Deepa asked the COTPA and health officials to hold education programme in densely populated areas and also near bus stands, schools and colleges round the year and prevent youth from consuming tobacco. District Tobacco Control officer Sujatha Hasavinmath said that a total of 1,139 cases have been booked under COTPA Act in the district in the last one year and a fine of Rs. 1.35 lakh collected. Stress has been laid on holding more awareness programmes. Over 100 schools and colleges in the district have been declared as tobacco-free zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-youth-kick-addiction/article31718969.ece
01 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man dies in road accident||A motorcycle rider died after he was hit by a goods carrier in Hassan on Saturday. The police gave the name of the dead as Akshay (23), a resident of Kuvempu Nagar. He was going towards Ring Road from Kuvempu Nagar when the goods carrier hit his two-wheeler. He suffered serious injuries. Later, doctors at the government hospital declared him dead. Hassan Traffic Police have registered a case filed by his father B.V. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-in-road-accident/article31718974.ece
01 June 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Graduates also work under scheme||Haveri district has witnessed an unusual trend with even graduates and postgraduates volunteering to work under MNREGA without any inhibitions. “These people who worked in different private firms as sales personnel, clerks and accountants are now doing physical works under the scheme,” said CEO of Haveri Zilla Panchayat Ramesh Desai. In the district, the pandemic has forced people like Dore Uppar from Kummur village in Byadgi taluk, a postgraduate who earlier worked for an NGO, Duddusab Tilavalli, a commerce graduate, and others to work under the scheme for daily wages to support their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/graduates-also-work-under-scheme/article31718775.ece
01 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||28 new COVID-19 cases in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district reported new 28 positive cases for COVID-19 on Sunday taking the total number of such patients to 281. All the 28 persons infected by coronavirus had returned from Maharashtra. As per the information provided by the district administration, out of the total 281 cases, as of now, 128 patients have been discharged. There are 146 are active cases and seven patients have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/28-new-covid-19-cases-in-kalaburagi/article31718963.ece
01 June 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Jaggery production reduces by 30%||Jaggery production in Mandya district has dipped by almost 30% since the beginning of lockdown due to COVID-19. Uncertainty looms over the sector as majority of the jaggery-making units have stopped production activities as the skilled labourers have returned to their native places. The production in around 30% of the 539 registered ‘aalemanes’ (jaggery-making units) has completely stopped since the announcement of nationwide lockdown, while it is partially going on at a good number of units, according to jaggery makers as well as traders. The arrival of various shapes of jaggery between March 25 and May 10 in 2019 stood around 83,000 quintals. Nevertheless, it has dipped to 58,000 quintals during the same period this year subsequent to the slump in output, said Y. Nanjundaswamy, secretary of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Mandya. Speaking to The Hindu , the officer said: “The situation would return to normalcy in the coming days.” Severely affected The aalemanes in Mandya district produce several thousands of quintals of bucket-shape, box-shape, and cube-shape jaggery and supply them to various States every year. The traders in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh are major buyers for Mandya jaggery. The production of three tonnes [3,000 kg] of jaggery demands at least 10 man-days. An aalemane can produce around 2,000 kg to 3,000 kg of jaggery by employing 10 men in a day. Most of the skilled labourers were from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other northeast States, and north Karnataka region. Majority of them have left the district, said the owner of a jaggery unit near Chikkamarali of Pandavapura. “We can hire local men for works such as cleaning, cutting and crushing the sugarcane, and packing the production. But, we cannot hire unskilled workers for boiling cane juice and shaping the jaggery,” he said. The industry had witnessed similar crisis in 2012 during the exodus of migrant workers from northeast States. The situation had worsened from 2012 to 2016 following drought. Even before the industry could see some revival in 2016, demonetisation left a major blow, a trader at Mandya APMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jaggery-production-reduces-by-30/article31718777.ece
01 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fishermen not keen on utilising extended fishing season||Notwithstanding the Union and State governments extending the fishing season by a fortnight till June 15 to offset COVID-19 lockdown losses, not many fishermen are keen on taking up deep sea fishing. While the fishermen’s strong conviction that marine life should be given adequate breather for breeding as well as growth was one of the reasons, a four-day cyclone warning starting Monday was also another reason for the lukewarm response from the fishermen to the extended season. Mangaluru Trawl Boat Meenugarara Sangha president Nithin Kumar told The Hindu that marine fishermen in the State had the worst fishing season in 2019-20 with a never-heard fish famine. Even if the season is extended by a fortnight, their fortunes would change little. It was prudent to leave marine life undisturbed for two months to get good catch next season starting October, he said. Moreover, the sea becomes highly volatile at the entry to Mangaluru fishing harbour even with small weather changes in monsoon. With the monsoon in the offing, fishermen were not eager about taking a risk. Even New Mangalore Port Trust this time has refused to allow fishing boats to berth on its premises during monsoon for various reasons, including COVID-19, national security and lack of space, he said. Hence, fisherman have nowhere to go if the weather becomes rough, he said. With fishing becoming an industry, there was a large dependence on migrant workers, a majority of whom have left for their native places, Mr. Kumar said. Yet, a few short-range fishing vessels with engines less than 110 hp could venture out for overnight fishing as a few workers from Uttara Kannada district have arrived in Mangaluru. Meanwhile, fisherman associations in Udupi district too have decided not to utilise the extended season. No vessel would go out from June 1; but those who have already ventured out could return till June 4, the associations have said. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Director of Fishing Parshwanath said that not many fishermen would venture out because of the cyclone warning. One has to see how many would venture out after June 5 till June 15, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-not-keen-on-utilising-extended-fishing-season/article31718971.ece
01 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Orange alert sounded in coastal region; heavy rain likely||The government has declared orange alert for the State’s coastal belt on Monday as a low pressure area has formed over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area which may result in heavy rain in the region. The India Meteorological Department has said that there will be light to moderate rainfall in most places with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely over the coastal region on Monday. Hence, the coastal region may receive rainfall ranging from 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm on Monday. Dakshina Kannada district administration on Sunday asked people to be alert. The Meteorological Department said that squally wind will gradually increase going up to gale wind speed reaching 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph over east-central Arabian Sea and along and off the coast on Tuesday. Sea condition would become very rough to high waves over east-central and south-east Arabian Sea and along and off the coast on Tuesday. Fishermen have been advised not to sail out for fishing till Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/orange-alert-sounded-in-coastal-region-heavy-rain-likely/article31718972.ece
01 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Liquor flows when water level is low||Liquor stores in parts of H.D. Kote, situated along Karnataka’s border with Kerala, have always been a big draw for tipplers from across the State. But, their cross-border forays have become a source of anxiety to the locals and authorities in the times of COVID-19. Though the inter-State roads are sealed at the borders and the boating service between the two States had been suspended, the dried-up stretch of the Kabini has provided tipplers from Kerala a route to comfortably enter Karnataka and make a beeline for liquor stores. The sneaking into Karnataka of tipplers from Kerala and the absence of any semblance of social distancing at the liquor stores were brought to the notice of the authorities by local activists from various organisations, including the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Dalit Sangharsha Samiti (DSS). Though the district administration swung into action and sealed four liquor shops at Machchuru and D.B. Kuppe, which are situated close to the Kabini, the desperate tipplers are reported to be going to other liquor stores in the region. Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Abhiram G. Sankar said the authorities had closed four liquor shops after the KRRS and the DSS staged protests. But, the other liquor shops on the fringes of the Antharsanthe forest regions and other parts of H.D. Kote cannot be closed. He said the officials had carried out a spot inspection of the border area from Bavali checkpost. “The district administrations of Mysuru and Wayanad had more than a month ago suspended boating service. But, the water level was so low at several places that people were simply crossing the river. But, the recent rains have increased the water level and it is making it difficult for them to cross. If the rains continue and the water level rises further, they will find it more difficult to cross” Now, he said the Forest Department in Nagarahole region has been asked to step up patrolling in vehicles in the border areas to check such illegal entry into the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/liquor-flows-when-water-level-is-low/article31718782.ece
01 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Hasten autonomy process for Kannada centre’||Prominent Kannada writers and scholars have written an open letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to expedite the process of securing autonomous status for the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) in Mysuru. The signatories include S.L. Bhyrappa, Devanur Mahadeva, P. Mallesh, N. Boralingaiah, Kalegowda Nagawar, Aravind Malagatti and 18 others. CESCK is currently functioning under the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) in the city. But there is a growing demand for autonomy for CESCK in order to expedite research and academic work on the classical Kannada language and its propagation. The signatories to the letter have pointed out that the Central Institute for Classical Tamil secured autonomous status within years of the language being accorded classical status. Since then, it has grown by leaps and bounds, and more recently even the Telugu centre was shifted to Nellore while there is a delay in according autonomy to CESCK, said the writers. But what triggered the writers’ ire was a letter by CIIL director D.G. Rao to the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) earlier this year in which he stated that the centre was “in the initial stage after its establishment under CIIL” and that granting autonomy to CESCK at this juncture would be “premature”. The Kannada writers have taken serious objection to this on the grounds that such remarks amount to stonewalling efforts to secure autonomy for CESCK. They have also demanded that the notification issued by CIIL on fresh appointments to the post of Project Director and other staff for Kannada language be rescinded. They termed it illegal. When contacted, Prof. Rao said the decision to grant autonomous status to language centres was entirely up to the government and even he was for it. “We have prepared a detailed project report with the help of the CPWD and even worked out the staff strength required, and the same will be forwarded to the government by Monday or Tuesday,” he said. However, in the absence of land all these years, the autonomous centre could not come into being and it was only recently that the University of Mysore agreed to release 3.5 acres of land, though it is yet to be transferred, Prof. Rao added. On the controversy over calling for fresh notification to recruit staff for the Kannada centre, Prof. Rao said they were contractual in nature though all efforts were made to retain and continue the same staff. However, other sources said the tenure of the existing director of CESCK was to end only in December 2020 and the notification calling for fresh recruitment was in violation of the MHRD guidelines. They argued that there were contractual staff in other wings of the CIIL working for 10 to 15 years and wondered why only CESCK staff had to be appointed afresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hasten-autonomy-process-for-kannada-centre/article31718772.ece
01 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Workers in Kodagu return to hometowns||Almost all migrant workers who had been employed in Kodagu and wanted to return to their hometowns within the State and outside in view of the COVID-19 pandemic have been sent from the district. Disclosing this on Sunday, the Kodagu district administration, acting on the government’s directive, identified the workers and arranged buses from the district to Mysuru to help them board Shramik Special trains that took them to their States. Many KSRTC buses had also been hired. As on Sunday, 5,984 migrant workers in Kodagu had been sent to their hometowns. The last batch of workers left for their home in Jharkhand on Sunday. A total of 1,463 workers, who belonged to various districts in the State, had returned to their homes, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-in-kodagu-return-to-hometowns/article31718774.ece
01 June 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,KARNATAKA||51 patients discharged in Raichur and Yadgir dists.||As many as 34 patients, who were admitted to OPEC Hospital in Raichur, were discharged after treatment for COVID-19 virus on Sunday. According to a release, they were treated and discharged according to guidelines issued. Before releasing them, doctors conducted the RT-PCR test, as their results had turned negative. The discharged patients were directed to undergo home quarantine for 14 days and in case of symptoms, they will be taken to hospital as per protocol, the release said. In Yadgir, 17 patients who were admitted to the designated hospital in Yadgir, were discharged on Sunday. They were all discharged after their tests turned negative. Apart from these, two patients who belong to Yadgir district and admitted to the designated hospital in Kalaburagi were discharged on Saturday. On May 26, nine patients, and on May 30, two patients were discharged. The number of those discharged in Yadgir have been put at 28. Meanwhile, a total of 117 COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Sunday. According to a release, there were 83 cases in Raichur and 44 in Yadgir. With these 44 cases, the total has gone up to 285 in Yadgir. Of these 285 cases, nine patients have been discharged, while one patient died. In Raichur, 217 positive cases have been registered and of them, two patients have been discharged and one patient died. With these figures, Yadgir stands second, while Raichur occupies the fifth place under the highest number of positive cases reported in the State. Except one patient (P-3,020) who tested positive, the remaining 43 returned from Maharashtra. P-3020 returned from Andhra Pradesh; while all 83 persons who tested positive in Raichur returned from Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/51-patients-discharged-in-raichur-and-yadgir-dists/article31718966.ece
01 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||26 cases in Vijayapura||Vijayapura district recorded the highest number of 26 COVID-19 positive cases for a single day on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/26-cases-in-vijayapura/article31718967.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Garbage disposal disrupted||Heavy rains that lashed the city on Friday have left the approach road to Mittaganahalli quarry landfill on the outskirts of the city unmotorable disrupting garbage disposal for two days. The road has become so slushy that garbage compactors carrying several tonnes of waste are worried that their vehicles will topple while they try to navigate the road. This has resulted in a pile-up of trucks at the quarry through Saturday and Sunday. Garbage was not unloaded until the road was fixed. “Work was carried out through Saturday night using flood lights. The road was remade by putting several layers of dry mud,” said Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The unloading of trucks carrying garbage collected on Saturday began on Sunday afternoon. This created a backlog, as garbage collected on Sunday mostly remained in auto tippers parked at street corners in many areas through the day. “The compactors had begun making a second trip to the city to collect Sunday’s garbage on Sunday evening. Unloading will go on till Monday morning to ensure the backlog is cleared,” sources said. The quarry landfill at Mittaganahalli receives 3,000 tonnes of mixed waste every day. The last stretch of the road, that garbage compactors need to traverse before unloading the garbage into the quarry pit, stands on a part of the quarry that was levelled and remade after filling it up with garbage to the brink. “The nature of the land is such that asphalting or concrete will not hold up. The road will sink as there is a lot of moisture. There is garbage instead of soil below,” explained D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP. This is not the first time the road has become unmotorable, disrupting garbage disposal in the city. With monsoon approaching, the civic body is now keen on constructing an all-weather road on the stretch using technology used to build roads at high altitude and along water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garbage-disposal-disrupted/article31718761.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP nets Rs. 1,400 cr. in property tax||With its coffers running low, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is banking on property tax collections. Civic officials told The Hindu that while in April 2020, the civic body was able to collect just over Rs. 400 crore, the collection in May 2020 had crossed Rs. 1,000 crore. “Until midnight of May 31 (Sunday), citizens were able to avail the 5% rebate. The total tax collected will be changing by the hour until then,” an official said. According to data provided, the tax collected until 1.40 p.m. on Sunday was Rs. 1,429.32 crore. The total had increased to Rs. 1,440.14 crore by 5 p.m. Of this, Rs. 782.52 crore was made through online modes and Rs. 657.62 crore as challan payments. By 5.30 p.m., the total had increased to Rs. 1,440.21 crore. During the corresponding period last year (2019-20), the BBMP had collected a total of Rs. 1,510.79 crore. Of this, Rs. 565.10 crore was paid through online modes and Rs. 945.69 crore as challan payment through banks. In a circular, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the civic body had to extend the rebate period due to the lockdown forcing citizens to stay indoors. This had meant ruling out visiting the banks for the payment of property tax. Several councillors had urged the Commissioner to extend the rebate period and the same was approved by the BBMP council. During 2019-20, the BBMP had collected a total of Rs. 2,729.77 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-nets-rs-1400-cr-in-property-tax/article31718751.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ahead of monsoon, residents call for resumption of ward committee meetings||With the monsoon just around the corner, citizen activists and residents are urging ward committee members to restart meetings, many of which were put on hold because of the lockdown. With the recent spate of rains exposing the lack of preparedness by civic agencies, there is renewed urgency to ensure that ward committees start meeting from June. One of the key concerns is the lack of progress in setting up Disaster Management Cells in each of the 198 wards. H.R. Sreenivasa Rao, a volunteer at Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB), which was at the forefront of a campaign for ward committees, said that only a few committees convened meetings in May to discuss the setting up of Disaster Management Cells at the ward level. “However, since the communication related to DMCs was not clear and other issues were not discussed, residents and active participants want ward committees to meet again, and regularly from June,” said Mr. Rao. Mala Sugantha, an active participant of ward committee meetings in Hoysala Nagar ward, said that a ward committee meeting was held recently. “But citizens were not properly informed about the meeting and constitution of DMCs. Hence, we have asked for a second meeting. With COVID-19 here to stay and monsoon approaching, ward committees have a vital role to play to mitigate problems and to ensure time-bound implementation of plans at the micro level,” she said, adding that macro-level policies and guidelines cannot be implemented without support at the grassroots. Empower ward committees According to Srinivas Alavilli of CfB, this is the right time for the civic body to empower ward committees. “Such distressing times should be converted into an opportunity to empower ward committees. The civic body should have roped in the ward committees in steps to combat COVID-19, including identification of labourers and destitute people, and for distribution of ration kits,” he said. Gangambike Mallikarjun, former mayor, said that she has been getting calls regarding the next ward committee meeting as it was not conducted in April and May due to lockdown. “The amount each ward has been allocated in the BBMP budget to fight COVID-19 can be utilised effectively by involving ward committees,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ahead-of-monsoon-residents-call-for-resumption-of-ward-committee-meetings/article31718749.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Plan in place to attend to potholes’||Potholes, which have made a comeback with the recent spate of rains, are causing much consternation among motorists and pedestrians. The matter was recently taken up by the Chief Minister who directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to ensure that potholes are repaired quickly given the volume of complaints from citizens of bad roads. Last October and November, the BBMP was racing to meet its self-imposed deadlines to fill all potholes and repair bad reaches. This year, it hopes to maintain more control over the problem by producing its own asphalt. “The hot mix plant at Kannur, around 20 km from the city, has started functioning. It is up to the discretion of the jurisdictional engineer to use either cell macadum or cold mix,” said a civic official. The hot mix plant had been set up at a cost of Rs. 5 crore in an attempt to bring in more accountability and reduce dependence on contractors. Senior officials said that engineers at the ward level have been continuously filling up potholes and repairing roads. Funds for road maintenance have already been given to all wards. While wards in the three core zones get Rs. 20 lakh each, those in the remaining five have been allocated Rs. 30 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-in-place-to-attend-to-potholes/article31718752.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The B.S. Yediyurappa government seems to be far from at its best when it comes to communication, even when it comes to conveying crucial things such as Cabinet decisions, with Ministers assigned the tasks coming across as ill-prepared. A classic example of this played out in the previous Cabinet briefing of Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy(in picture). He first announced that there would be a ban on entry of flights and trains originating from five States that have high incidence of COVID-19. Within hours, a clarification note came from the government saying that the Cabinet had not banned the flights, but only requested to the Civil Aviation Ministry to reduce their numbers. During the pandemic, when clarity in communication is more essential than ever before, several orders — relating to quarantine rules, testing protocol and so on — have also suffered from this malaise.   It seems that leaders from Belagavi district, which sends the largest number of legislators (18) to the Legislative Assembly after Bengaluru city (26), are never tired of stirring the political pot. Hours after former Minister and MLA Umesh Katti and his supporters from north Karnataka stoked dissidence within the BJP, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi(in picture)jumped into action and claimed that nearly two dozen Congress MLAs were in touch with him and ruled out any sort of instability to the government. Mr. Jarkiholi, who won the byelection from Gokak in Belagavi, was instrumental in destabilising the JD(S)-Congress coalition government last year. Mr. Jarkiholi, who took a lead in the resignation of several Congress MLAs in 2019, now has once again threatened to lure more Congress legislators. He has claimed that nearly two dozen Congress MLAs were in touch with him and “on a trial”, at least five were ready to resign and join the saffron party on the BJP high command’s nod. Whether or not it is a hollow claim, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar — incidentally Mr. Jarkiholi’s bête noire — has something to watch for.     Initially pretty quiet about the State government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, the principal Opposition Congress has switched to petition submission mode during the lockdown. Considering that big gatherings and protests against the alleged faulty policies of the government is not a viable option, party leaders have adopted what can be called a “moderate” approach of submitting petitions to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, complaining about lapses in tackling problems of migrants, farmers and a large number of workers in the unorganised sector. Congress leaders have met the Chief Minister nearly half a dozen times(in picture)since the announcement of the lockdown. They have demanded various things, from monetary compensation to unorganised workers to the withdrawal of an FIR registered against their party national president Sonia Gandhi. The petitions, indeed, put pressure on the government, and the Chief Minister made some announcements for the benefit of the poor. This week, taking a slightly more aggressive stand, Public Accounts Committee chairman and senior Congress leader H.K. Patil is planning to move a privilege motion against Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri for stalling a probe into the alleged corruption in the procurement of COVID-19 equipment. Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article31718765.ece
01 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Case filed against Chennithala, 19 others||The Ambalappuzha police registered a case against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and 19 others for violating physical-distancing norms while participating in an agitation against the mineral sand-mining at Thottappally on Sunday. Mr. Chennithala and others have been booked under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance 2020 and sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The Leader of the Opposition visited the Thottappally pozhi and the venue of the relay satyagraha. He registered a strong protest against the ongoing mineral sand-mining. Besides him, the case has also been registered against KPCC general secretary A.A. Shukoor, DCC president M. Liju and other party workers. UDF flays action United Democratic Front convener Benny Behanan flayed the registration of the case. He said that no such case was registered against those who had gathered in front of bars, violating lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-filed-against-chennithala-19-others/article31719068.ece
01 June 2020||Alappuzha/Kottayam,KERALA||COVID-19 count in Alappuzha up by six||The district on Sunday reported six new COVID-19 cases. Officials said that all had been imported cases — two from foreign countries and four from other States. One of the patients, a young man, had come from the Maldives on board a ship on May 17. He was in quarantine at a corona care centre after reaching the district. The second person, a 52-year-old, came from Abu Dhabi in the UAE on May 29. As he was showing symptoms of the disease on arrival at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, he was taken to the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Both are from Chengannur taluk. Of the imported cases from other States, a youth reached his home at Cherthala from Mysuru in a private vehicle on May 29. The fourth person, a 60-year-old man, came on board a train from Rajasthan on May 28. He is a native of Cherthala. The other two patients, both young men from Chengannur taluk, had come in private vehicles from Delhi and Pune on May 25 and May 26 respectively. Of the six patients, three have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, two to Taluk Hospital, Haripad, and one to General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, for treatment. The district has so far logged 47 COVID-19 cases, of which 39 remain active. Seven people have made a full recovery while one person succumbed to the disease. Four persons were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease in the district on Sunday, taking the total number of people in observation at hospitals to 46. No fresh cases Kottayam on Sunday reported no fresh cases of COVID-19 even as two persons who developed symptoms of the disease were admitted to the hospital for close observation. The authorities are now awaiting the results of 519 serum samples including the 152 samples sent for examination during the day.  Seven people have made a full recovery while one person succumbed to the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-count-in-alappuzha-up-by-six/article31719126.ece
01 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID to redefine poll process||One may have to wear a face mask while queuing up outside a polling station for electing the local body representatives in less than four months. But before voting, he/she may have to remove the mask to reveal his/her face to the polling officers, besides maintaining the COVID-19 health and physical distancing protocols while casting their votes. As polls to the 1,200 local bodies of the State are just a few months away, those at the State Election Commission (SEC) have started thinking aloud about the new health protocols and physical distancing norms to be followed while carrying out elections. The pandemic is going to heavily influence the process. Voters will have to wear masks while exercising their franchise, but will have to remove them to confirm their identity. The identity of each voter will have to be ensured by verifying their faces with their photo identity cards and the photo-based voters’ list, which will be available with the polling officers. Hand sanitisers may have to be provided at the polling stations, besides drinking water. New practices “New practices and health measures may have to be followed for the conduct of the 2020 local body elections. It is a real challenge as it is for the first time that such measures are to be introduced,” V. Bhaskaran, State Election Commissioner (SEC), told The Hindu . There may be a letup in the restrictions on social movement and health parameters that were introduced during the spread of the disease. The commission is closely watching the developments to finalise its plans, he said. Before the introduction of any such measures, the commission will hold discussions with health and medical experts to formulate the norms. It would be after wide consultations that such norms will be introduced, he said. The commission is all set to release the draft voters’ list for 2020 within a week of the lifting of the lockdown. The new regimes should assume office on November 12.  New practices and health measures may have to be followed for the 2020 local body elections. V. Bhaskaran SEC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-to-redefine-poll-process/article31719081.ece
01 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mumbai returnee tests positive in Ernakulam||One person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Sunday. The patient, a 46-year-old from Kothamangalam, arrived from Mumbai on May 27 in an AirAsia flight. He was in home quarantine and was moved to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, on May 29. A 44-year-old patient, who had been diagnosed with COVID-19 on May 24, was discharged from the hospital on Sunday. The number of COVID-19 patients under treatment in the district at present is 29. Twenty-five of them are at the Government Medical College Hospital, while four are at INHS Sanjivani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mumbai-returnee-tests-positive-in-ernakulam/article31719060.ece
01 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Protest against drinking water shortage||Areas within the Maradu Municipality limits have been battling a shortage of drinking water for the past five days. Municipal council members protested against the Kerala Water Authority’s (KWA) alleged laxity on Sunday near the water tank at Kundannoor. “We were told that pipeline-laying work would disrupt supply for three days. But Sunday was the fifth day after work began on May 27, and work on the pipelines was still not complete,” said Moly James, Municipal Chairperson. Unexpected Some residents had collected water that could have lasted three days, but the delay in resuming pumping was unexpected, she said. While the civic body had supplied tanker water in some areas, it could not reach all the 33 divisions. “If the KWA had been a little more careful, the situation could have been avoided. Water in wells is all saline and not potable,” she said. Work was mostly complete by Sunday evening and after the newly laid pipelines were washed out, supply was likely to resume, said a KWA official. Work was undertaken as part of a project to strengthen the distribution system in Maradu municipality by replacing old and damaged pipelines leading from the tank, he said. “Two days of rain had disrupted the work, raising the water table and making trenching difficult,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-drinking-water-shortage/article31719063.ece
01 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Small industries hail KSEB move to cut fixed charges||Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have welcomed a decision by the Kerala State Electricity Board to cut fixed charges by 25% and not impose interest on fixed charges unpaid during the lockdown. The decision will be applicable to payments for March, April, and May. Payments can be made till December 15. A spokesman for the MSMEs said the association representing small and medium units had appealed to the government for help in the wake of the loss of business during the lockdown. The payment of fixed charges had become a huge financial liability for the industrial units. General secretary of Kerala State Small Industries Association A. Nizarudeen welcomed the KSEB move to allow the units to pay bills in instalments. The board had promised steps to install feeder lines in all industrial estates so that power supply is not disrupted without a valid reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-industries-hail-kseb-move-to-cut-fixed-charges/article31719084.ece
01 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dam shutters to be opened||People on the banks of Thodupuzha and Muvattupuzha are warned of rising water levels after the Malankara dam shutters are raised after 10 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dam-shutters-to-be-opened/article31719059.ece
01 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Six more test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kollam||Six persons from Kollam including a 10-day-old infant tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The youngest patient in the district, the baby, was delivered at the Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, by emergency C-section procedure. Her mother, a 26-year-old from Kalluvathukkal tested positive on May 26 and both the baby and the mother are stable according to hospital authorities. Among the patients, four are expatriates while the other, a 46-year-old peanut vendor from Kottiyam, has a travel history to Tamil Nadu. Travel history He, along with his wife, had travelled to Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, for a treatment on May 13 and reportedly went to Tiruchendur from there. His sample was taken after his neighbours reported about the trip and complained to the authorities. His sample was collected on May 28 as part of special surveillance. Another patient, a 22-year-old Eroor resident reached Thiruvananthapuram in a special train from Delhi on May 22. Institutional quarantine He was placed in institutional quarantine at Kottarakara after reaching the district in a KSRTC special service. His sample was taken on May 27 after he developed symptoms and was moved to the hospital on May 30. A 28-year-old from Thrikkovilvattam, who was working as a staff nurse in Mumbai, is also among those who tested positive. She came to Kerala in the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Rajadhani Express on May 26 and was in institutional quarantine. A second person from Mumbai, a 23-year-old from Thalavur, reached Ernakulam in a special train on May 27. Another person who travelled with him had fainted on arrival and was later tested positive. The sixth case is a 54-year-old Mynagappally resident who travelled to Thiruvananthapuram from Kuwait in Air India Express on May 20. He was in institutional quarantine at Nilamel when his sample tested positive. Active cases With this, the number of active cases in Kollam has gone up to 35 and currently, the Health Department is awaiting the result of 272 samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-more-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2-in-kollam/article31719127.ece
01 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Youth held on charge of killing mother||The police on Sunday arrested a 27-year-old on charge of killing his mother. The accused was identified as Nithin Babu, who allegedly slit the throat of his mother Kunjannama, a native of Amara, near Changanassery. Preliminary investigations suggested that the youth, in an inebriated condition, had picked up a quarrel with his mother on Saturday night and attacked her with a knife. The accused then called a neighbour and confessed to the crime. A police team, which rushed to the spot on an alert, broke into the house and took the accused into custody. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-charge-of-killing-mother/article31719085.ece
01 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MG University examinations to resume||The sixth semester examination (regular/ private/supplementary) for undergraduate programmes in the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, will begin on Monday. A detailed list of the examination centres in all districts of Kerala and Lakshadweep, is available on the official website of the varsity. Meanwhile, students who were allotted the examination centre at St. Michaels College in Cherthala have been directed to appear for the exams at Naipunya School of Management in Cherthala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mg-university-examinations-to-resume/article31719130.ece
01 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Modi 2.0: nothing to cheer for State||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi completes one year in office in his second term, Kerala has nothing to cheer about, be it for the economy, industry or farmers. No flagship programme has been announced for the State in the past one year even when the government was facing economic headwinds much before the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government’s demand to release the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation arrears and annual borrowing limit seems to have been met only for the sake of it. “However, the Centre has been helping the State financially to tide over the grave fiscal deficit,” BJP State general secretary M.T. Ramesh said. The nationwide launch of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN)  and monthly pension to farmers, farm workers, shopkeepers and labourers in the unorganised sector have benefited only a section of the people. Specific projects may not have taken off in the past 12 months except for the spillover projects of previous Modi government on the development of national highways and doubling and electrification of rail lines and the expansion of Kochi Metro. “But the State should judiciously utilise the funds provided by the Centre,” Malabar Development Council (MDC) president C.E. Chakkunny said. Political resistance At the same time, Kerala witnessed a massive political resistance when the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance pushed its political agenda by passing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December. The abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A for Jammu and Kashmir, the passage of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill that banned instant triple talaq among Muslims, pronouncement of Ayodhya verdict and expediting the construction of Ram Temple during this period triggered stiff political resistance in the State. However, the COVID-19-induced lockdown put a brake on the momentum and finally the protests lost its sheen by mid-March. Despite the love-hate relationship between the Centre and the State government, both have been working in tandem to contain the COVID-19 spread. According to Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, the Centre has been helping the citizens of the State through the Vande Bharat Mission flights and the starting of special trains to bring stranded Non-Resident Keralites home. Kerala has been given utmost priority in the different phases of the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modi-20-nothing-to-cheer-for-state/article31719067.ece
01 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wait for Calicut varsity VC continues||The wait for a Vice Chancellor (VC) seems to be getting longer for the University of Calicut, the largest in the State in terms of the number of districts, colleges, and students under its jurisdiction. It has been lacking a full-time VC since November last after K. Mohammed Basheer completed his tenure. Though a search panel had submitted a list of shortlisted candidates to the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of the university, on May 18, a final announcement is getting delayed. The search panel had Tom Jose, whose term as Chief Secretary ended on May 31, Kerala State Planning Board Vice Chairperson V.K. Ramachandran and Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar as its members. After interactions with shortlisted candidates, Mr. Jose and Mr. Ramachandran proposed a list of three names in which K.M. Seethi, Professor, School of International Relations and Politics, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, was the government’s choice. The others on the list were C.T. Aravind Kumar, Pro Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University, and M.K. Jayaraj, Professor, Department of Physics, Cochin University of Science and Technology. It is learnt that Mr. Kumar, however, proposed another list of three names, while favouring C.A. Jayaprakash, Principal Scientist, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram. The others on the list were M.V. Narayanan, Fellow, Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, and Suresh Mathew, Professor, School of Chemical Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University. Mr. Seethi, meanwhile, retired from service on May 28 after he turned 60, which is also the age limit for being selected as VC. University sources said why the Governor was dragging his feet on the issue was not clear, though there have been rumours about a clash of political interests between him and the government on the issue. Now, the Governor may have to choose from among the other five names. Additional charge V. Anil Kumar, VC, Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, is holding additional charge of the VC now. The search process had begun afresh this year after reconstituting the panel as it could not pick up a candidate earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wait-for-calicut-varsity-vc-continues/article31719058.ece
01 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Row over mining: case against DYFI activists||The Kozhikode Rural police have registered a case against five Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) workers who allegedly attacked the leader of Chengottumala Anti-Mining Action Council when he was at a friend’s house. R.K. Febin, V. Vinil, T. Jithin Raj, Aswin Vijay, and O. Rajan were booked following a complaint filed by the victim, Dileesh Koottalida. The incident occurred on May 27. Both Dileesh and his friend Arun had sustained injuries in the incident. They had been admitted to the Perambra Taluk Hospital. According to the police, the five-member gang attacked the activist following an argument over the circulation of a notice against a local Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leader. The notice had held the CPI(M) leader responsible for the activities to secure sanction for the mining project at Chengottumala. The DYFI workers roughed him up for his suspected involvement in circulating the notice, the police said. Meanwhile, Dileesh said he had no connection with the circulation of any notice in the area. The local action committee leaders who flayed the incident alleged that CPI(M) workers were trying to scuttle the villagers’ fight against an upcoming mining project. Protection sought They also sought the intervention of the police to ensure protection for the members of the local action committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-mining-case-against-dyfi-activists/article31719066.ece
01 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||For them, online classes are still on paper||Children of most tribal hamlets across the State will not be able to attend online classes when the schools reopen after the summer vacation on Monday. Many of them have no idea what online classes would be like. “We have not heard from anyone. No one has told us what to do,” said Nitya V.V., a Class 8 student from Vaniyampuzha tribal colony, near Munderi, and in Pothukal grama panchayat. “We too have dreams. But we are living in squalid conditions, under constant threat of elephants and leopards,” said Sudarshan B.V., a Class 4 student . Nitya is a student of GTUP & HS, Munderi, and Sudarshan a student of Alternative School, Vaniyampuzha. There are about 100 school-going children in Vaniyampuzha and neighbouring Iruttukuthi, Tharippapotti, and Kumbalappara tribal colonies. They have been marooned since the floods of August 2019, which washed away the two bridges across the Chaliyar river connecting the colonies with the Munderi mainland. The condition of children in tribal colonies elsewhere is not much different, though they are not marooned as the Vaniyampuzha children. Exceptions Interestingly, there are some exceptions too like the children of Nedumkayam tribal colony in Karulai, near Nilambur. A tribal hamlet adopted by P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, the Nedumkayam colony has modern facilities with computers, projectors and air-conditioned classrooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-them-online-classes-are-still-on-paper/article31719092.ece
01 June 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Palakkad reports 12 new cases||aWhen Palakkad district saw 12 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, Malappuram had only two fresh cases. The total number of patients under treatment in Palakkad rose to 140. There are 52 patients under treatment in Malappuram district. As many as 10 of the new cases in Palakkad had returned either from other States or from abroad. Three had come from Maharashtra, two from Kancheepuram, two from Chennai, and one each from Bengaluru, Muscat, and Palani. Two persons were infected reportedly from primary sources. Among the 140 positive cases in Palakkad, five are from other districts and one from Assam. Two from Palakkad district are currently under treatment in other districts. The two fresh cases reported on Sunday in Malappuram were returnees from the Gulf. 10 cases in Kasaragod Ten persons who had returned from Maharashtra tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Sunday. District Medical Officer V. Ramdas said all the infected persons were men. They included four from Mangalpadi, two from Madhur, and one each from Mogralputhur and Kasaragod municipality. A total of 3,691 persons are under observation in the district. Kannur records 7 cases Seven more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur. While four of them returned from abroad, three came from from other States, said T.V. Subhash, District Collector, on Sunday. Those affected were a 19-year-old woman, a native of Muzhappilangad; a 38-year-old man from Iritty; an 18-year-old from Thalassery; a 44-year-old Kadambur native; a 25-year-old from Muzhakkunnu; a 58-year-old from Alakkode and a 23-year-old from Kottayam (Malabar). Wayanad has 3 cases The number of COVID-19 cases in Wayanad continued to rise with three more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. A 19-year-old from Pulpally who returned from Chennai on May 11, a 42-year-old man from Muttil who returned from Nanjangud in Karnataka on May 25, and a 35-year-old woman from Sulthan Bathery who returned from Kuwait on May 26 had tested positive, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said. Death in Kozhikode One COVID-19 death was reported from Kozhikode on Sunday even as four persons were cured of the infection and two others tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, one of the new patients is the mother of an infant who tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The 23-year-old woman had been in home quarantine since May 18 after her arrival from Qatar. Her body fluid samples confirmed the presence of the infection on May 30. The second patient is a 36-year-old from Kallachi near Nadapuram. He had returned from Dubai on May 27 and was shifted to the COVID-19 care centre at Vadakara from the Kannur International Airport. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on May 29. Among the four who recovered from the infection, three had been at the medical college hospital and one person was at the first-line treatment centre at Lakshadweep Guest House. At present, 33 people from Kozhikode are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Fifteen of them are at the medical college hospital, 14 at the first-line treatment centre, three in Kannur, and one person at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, Malappuram. Apart from this, three persons from Kasaragod, two from Kannur, and one each from Malappuram and Thrissur are at the medical college hospital. Another person from Thrissur is at the MVR Cancer Centre and Research Institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-reports-12-new-cases/article31719065.ece
01 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Cases rise to 48 in Pathanamthitta||Four more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs), all of them women, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The total number of COVID-19 patients in the district has gone up to 48. Of this, 19 persons have been cured of the disease and, as of now, 28 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district and another one at the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram. A 20-year-old woman who reached Kurampala from Kuwait on May 20; a 58-year-old woman hailing from Attachackal who came from Delhi on May 22; a 30-year-old pregnant woman who came to Seethathode from Delhi on May 22; and a 64-year-old woman of West Othera who came from Delhi on May 26 are the four persons who were tested positive for the virus. The total number of quarantined persons under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district went up to 59 on Sunday. Of this, 25 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, four at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, six at the General Hospital in Adoor, three at the Covid Firstline Treatment Centre at Menamthottom Hospital in Ranni, and 21 others at various private hospitals in the district. A total of 4,102 persons have been quarantined as on Sunday. As many as 3,316 of them have come from other States and 728 from abroad while 58 others are primary contacts of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-rise-to-48-in-pathanamthitta/article31719129.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four new cases in capital district||Four new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday. Three of the patients, two women and a man, had arrived from Kuwait last week, according to the Thiruvananthapuram district administration. One of the women, aged 54 and hailing from Kattakada, had arrived from Kuwait via the Cochin International Airport on May 27. A 40-year-old woman, also from Kattakada, had arrived from Kuwait the next day. A 42-year-old man hailing from Karavaram, Alamcode, had arrived from the Gulf nation on May 30. The fourth patient, a man hailing from Anadu and who is aged 33, was admitted to the district hospital at Nedumangad on May 28. The man had reportedly visited Tamil Nadu the day before. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram after he began displaying symptoms. Prompt steps had been taken for tracing the contacts of the man, the district administration officials said on Sunday. 687 under surveillance Meanwhile, 687 people were placed under disease surveillance in the capital district on Sunday. As many as 278 people completed the observation period without exhibiting symptoms. In all, 11,091 people are kept under surveillance as on Sunday. Of this, 9,505 people are in home quarantine and 1,474 people are in corona care centres. As many as 90 people, 33 of them women, crossed over into Kerala through the inter-State border check-post at Inchivila on Sunday. From other States Eighty-seven people had travelled from Tamil Nadu, two from Karnataka, and one person from Andhra Pradesh, said district administration officials. 23 flights A total of 1,622 passengers arrived at the Thiruvanathapuram airport in 23 domestic flights on Sunday. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had declared six grama panchayats in the capital district — Vamanapuram, Pullampara, Nellanad, Pulimath, Mudakkal, and Manickal — as containment zones, given the COVID-19 scenario.  The DDMA declared Vamanapuram, Pullampara, Nellanad, Pulimath, Mudakkal, and Manickal as containment zones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-new-cases-in-capital-district/article31719135.ece
01 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State govt. sceptical about allowing unrestricted travel||The Central government’s decision to allow unrestricted inter-State and intra-State movement of persons from June 8 appeared to have triggered a sense of anxiety in the State administration. Officials said a top-level meeting to be chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday would weigh whether such a measure augured well for the State's COVID-19 containment strategy. (The Centre had said citizens would not require special permission, approval or online permit to travel between States and districts.) Officials said they feared that unrestricted travel would hobble the State government’s ability to identify and track new cases. Kerala has registered an upward trend in COVID-19 cases and epidemic hotspots. Enough latitude The unaudited entry and exit of people had caused the COVID-19 caseload to increase in several border districts, including Palakkad and Kasaragod. The Central government had given States and Union Territories sufficient latitude in imposing restrictions based on their assessment of the pandemic situation. Hence, officials said there was no question of Kerala running into a conflict with the Centre on the latest set of relaxations aimed at restarting the country's economy without causing a resurgence of the disease. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran told journalists on Sunday that government should compulsorily know in advance the identity of those entering the State by road, rail, air and sea. Officials said the State government agreed that night curfew between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. should continue, and social life and mobility severely curbed in containment zones till June 30. Conducive atmosphere However, the government was reportedly worried that the Centre's decision to open religious places of worship and shopping malls to the public and permit dining-in facility in hotels and restaurants from June 8 could create conditions conducive for the accelerated spread of COVID-19. Mr. Vijayan would take a call on whether such a move would be premature and risky for the State’s population. Sporting activities The first phase of easing lockdown restrictions appeared to offer scarce relief for morning walkers, sports enthusiasts and those yearning for outdoor exercise. Gymnasium, public parks, swimming pool and stadium would remain closed until further notice. Social life was unlikely to pick up any time soon. The ban on cinema halls, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-govt-sceptical-about-allowing-unrestricted-travel/article31719073.ece
01 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All students promised access to e-classes||The government, on Sunday, allayed concerns over students’ access to facilities for classes that will be telecast on Victers Channel and be available online from Monday. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) said the KITE Victers Channel would be available on cable networks such as Asianet Digital, Den Network, Kerala Vision, Digi Media, and Siti cable. The channel can also be accessed on two direct-to-home (DTH) service providers Videocon D2H and Dish TV. Trial now The classes were available live on the portalwww.victers.kite.kerala. gov.inand on Facebook (facebook.com/victerseduchannel). These would also be available on the Victers YouTube channel youtube.com/itsvicters after transmission. The telecast in the first week would be on a trial basis. The classes would be repeated in the same order from June 8. The statement said the government order had stressed that no student without access to television, smartphone, or Internet should go without the opportunity to view the classes. Class teachers should get in touch with the children to understand if the facilities were available. If not, head teachers should reach out to Kudumbashree units and parent-teacher associations for arranging the facilities. Depending on requirement, 1.2 lakh laptops, 7,000 projectors, and 4,545 televisions made available as part of the High-tech School project would be provided in areas that lacked the facilities. Students or parents should not worry if they missed the live telecast or the first few days of classes. They could be shown downloaded content offline at a later stage. KITE chief executive officer Anvar Sadath said there was no need for apprehension. Teachers were yet to reach out to all students, especially the new ones in each class. Once their feedback was available, the exact number of students who lacked the facilities could be determined. Then the support of ward members, councillors, other local self-government representatives, Kudumbashree members, or libraries could be sought. If need be, permission to use the facilities in schools would be given. KITE brought out the timetable for Monday’s classes. The class for each subject would last half an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-students-promised-access-to-e-classes/article31719087.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sunday spent in cleaning up State||Responding to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s appeal to make use of the lockdown day for cleaning up the surroundings, local bodies across the State carried out mass clean-up programmes on Sunday. The call was given in view of the chances of increase of vector-borne diseases once the monsoon sets in. Cleaning activities were carried out in all the wards across local bodies in the State. Due to the pandemic situation, strict social distancing was maintained and other precautions including wearing of masks and usage of sanitisers, were made during the cleaning. Volunteer force A large number of youth from the newly formed ‘Sannadham’ volunteer force joined in the campaign at various places, adding to the strength of the sanitation workers of the local bodies, voluntary organisations, residents associations, and the residents in each local area. The cleaning programme was spread across public spaces, markets, schools, anganwadis, institutions, housing colonies, and in individual households. Asha Workers and Junior Public Health Nurses visited households for mosquito source destruction activities. All objects, including coconut shells, egg shells and empty bottles, in which water can collect were removed. Pamphlets on the regular steps to be carried out at the household-level were distributed. In Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, as much as 55 tonnes of waste were collected from across the city as part of the mass cleaning campaign, inaugurated by Mayor K. Sreekumar. A total of 789 stormwater drains were cleaned up, to ensure free flow of water during the rainy season. Asha workers visited 1.63 lakh households. The Standing Committee chairpersons and councillors led the cleaning activities across 25 health circles. As many as 893 sanitation workers participated in the cleaning in various wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunday-spent-in-cleaning-up-state/article31719133.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LSGIs to bolster surveillance||Local self-government institutions (LSGIs) are bolstering their micro-level COVID-19 surveillance mechanism in anticipation of a heavy influx of repatriates following the easing of curbs on international and inter-State movement. Kerala that has set in place a decentralised COVID-19 management system by forming rapid response teams headed by elected members in all local body wards is now attempting to enhance their efficacy by enhancing the strength of the teams. The teams were formed to check quarantine violations, trace contacts and also for complementing the containment efforts of the government.  Local Self-Government Department sources told The Hindu that the teams comprising health and ASHA workers and Anganwadi teachers, among others, would be strengthened with the active participation of residents associations and also members of the Sannadha Sena, a voluntary corps. Ever since the COVID-19 threat struck the State, the teams had been playing a pivotal role in supporting the health workers. A majority of them are over-worked and fatigued. Complacency or laxity due to fatigue is feared to derail the system. Increasing the strength would help the existing team members to work in batches and that would help reduce their stress. Monsoon In addition to the virus threat, the State would soon have to gear up to manage the ravages of the monsoon. In the event of a flood or a fever outbreak, the same set of elected members will have to swing into action for rescue and rehabilitation of the affected persons. The heavy inflow of Keralites from other States and abroad in the coming weeks are feared to complicate matters further. Enhancing the strength of the response team was needed to handle such crises, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-to-bolster-surveillance/article31719075.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thunderstorm forecast in State||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a cyclone alert in the Arabian Sea where a low pressure area is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm in the days ahead. The low pressure area over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area is likely to concentrate into a depression by Monday. It is likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm over the east-central part of the sea in the subsequent 24 hours, the national weather agency said. The storm would move northwards till June 2 and then recurve north-northeastwards and reach north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts around June 3. Fishing banned Given the weather situation, the Kerala government has banned fishing activity along Kerala shores till June 4. Parts of the State, Mahe, and Lakshadweep are also likely to see thunderstorm activity accompanied by gusting winds till June 2. An orange alert has been issued for Lakshadweep indicating the possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall on Monday. The depression over coastal Oman and Yemen is likely to maintain its intensity during the next 12 hours and weaken thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thunderstorm-forecast-in-state/article31719089.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agriculture dept. hikes crop subsidy||The Agriculture Department on Sunday issued orders revising the rates of subsidy/financial assistance given for various crops under the crop development scheme. The rates have been revised for the following crops; paddy, vegetables, pulses, tubers, banana, honey, mushroom, millets, sesame and oil seeds and groundnut. The rates for crops not mentioned in the order will be declared later, according to the department. Revised rates The revised rates for some of the crops (per hectare) are as follows: paddy (one harvest a year) — Rs. 22,000; vegetables — Rs. 25,000; cool season vegetables — Rs. 30,000; pulses — Rs. 20,000; tapioca and other tubers — Rs. 30,000 and banana — Rs. 30,000. The subsidy rates were revised on the basis of proposals submitted by the Director of Agriculture on May 7. Land on which cultivation has not been carried out for more than three years may be considered as fallow land, according to the order. Fallow-land cultivation will be eligible for benefits. But it should be ensured that farming is pursued on the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agriculture-dept-hikes-crop-subsidy/article31719090.ece
01 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police’s safety education goes online||The State police have joined hands with the office of the eSafety Commissioner of the Government of Australia to promote online safety education in the State. With online classes set to begin in the State, this academic year’s programmes of Kid Glove, an initiative of the State police and the Information and Security Research Association, an NGO, for cyber safety have shifted to an e-classroom platform with the support of Australia. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the new platform on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polices-safety-education-goes-online/article31719076.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health Minister seeks report||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has sought a report from the Superintendent, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, after a patient who was shifted there from the airport was discharged before the COVID-19 test results were out. Action would be initiated against the erring officials, the Minister said. The patient was taken home in an ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-minister-seeks-report/article31719136.ece
01 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Spillway shutters of Neyyar dam to be opened||Four spillway shutters of the Neyyar dam will be opened after 8 a.m. on Monday. The district administration has asked people residing in nearby regions to exercise caution. At the Aruvikkara dam, shutter no: 3 is open by 20 cm. The water level stands at 46.35 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spillway-shutters-of-neyyar-dam-to-be-opened/article31719139.ece
01 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||No locust threat, but be on guard: KAU||The Kerala Agriculture University (KAU) has asked the State government to take precautionary measures against the possible locust attack. If the present low pressure and southwesterly winds continue, there is limited chance of locusts entering Kerala from the north Indian States. However, any deviation in the prevailing weather conditions causing the southwest monsoon winds to recede, there is every likelihood of the 1954 locust catastrophe to repeat in the State, warns the KAU. The university says the State needs to be on high alert against the locusts. The pest incidence has significant relation with weather parameters and they move along with the wind, says the KAU sources. “Current meteorological predictions of low pressure and high winds in the State limit the chances of possible locust attack. Moreover, the mission mode interventions to control the pest in the affected States is expected to prevent it to reach the southern States,” the sources added.  However, the scientists in Kerala are on high alert and surveillance is extended even to the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Alerts As a precaution the wind directions are also regularly monitored using the site https://earth.nullschool.net/ and the alerts are given by the KAU in public interest. If the locusts reach Kerala, there is every possibility that it will enter through Palakkad district which is a predominant agricultural area. The high population density of the State prevents measures such as aerial sprays using drones. But in the paddy fields and coconut plantations in Palakkad the aerial sprays can be tried. As azadirachtin in neem is found to have repellent effect against the pest, the neem-based pesticides can also be used, especially in places near human dwellings. Pesticides containing azadirachtin @ 3000 ppm is recommended at 5-10 ml per litre of water. If the pest starts breeding in the soils use of bio-agent metarhyzium is recommended and also raking of soil can kill the locust eggs, according to the KAU scientists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-locust-threat-but-be-on-guard-kau/article31719071.ece
01 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Baby drowns in bucket||A 11-month-old baby drowned in a bucket of water at Challissry near Kunnamkulam on Sunday. Mohammed Saddique, the child’s father, who had returned from Indore recently, is in home quarantine. The body fluid samples of the baby have been sent for COVID-19 test. The body was shifted to the Medical College Hospital mortuary. Post-mortem will be conducted after receiving the test results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/baby-drowns-in-bucket/article31719061.ece
01 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Collector to file report on delay in subway construction||The Thrissur District Collector will file a report to the court on the inordinate delay on the part of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in completing the construction of a subway on the national highway at Chalakudy. The deadline for completing the work was May 31. Moreover, it has been suspended for the time being. The Collector will submit a report to the government too after reviewing the current situation. Work on the subway project was taken up as part of removing the signal system on the Chalakudy-Mala road. After converting the road into four-lane, accidents were frequent at the junction. The contracting firm said work on the subway would resume in 15 days. Meanwhile, Benny Behannan, MP, said the Congress would launch a protest if the company failed to resume work immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-to-file-report-on-delay-in-subway-construction/article31719062.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Health concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-concerns/article31719057.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kerala’s own||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralas-own/article31719083.ece
01 June 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Families of 14 pedal edema victims receive ex gratia||The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Chintoor) authorities have handed over an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the next of kin of the 14 persons who died of pedal adema since March in the Chintoor agency area in East Godavari district. ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana and Rampachodavaram MLA Nagulapalli Dhanalakshmi on Sunday handed over cheques to the beneficiaries as promised by the State government. “Each of the 14 families gets an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh. One lakh rupees have been deposited into their bank account while Rs. 4 lakh has been converted into a fixed deposit,” Mr. Venkata Ramana told The Hindu.  An exclusive cell has been set up at the ITDA Chintoor office to track the spread of the disease in the agency and the health status of the patients besides attending to their medical and health needs. “The cell is being run by a team of officials, including medical and health and revenue staff,” he said. Awareness drive On the other hand, the ITDA authorities in collaboration with the Police and Excise Department conducted an awareness campaign, appealing to the tribal people to give up consumption of the liquor brewed from ingredients collected from the forest. “We are gearing up for a door-to-door survey in the Chintoor agency to identify the cases of pedal adema in a few weeks,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-14-pedal-edema-victims-receive-ex-gratia/article31718744.ece
01 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fisherman drowns in Araniyar reservoir||A fisherman of Reppalapattu village in Pichatur mandal drowned in Araniyar reservoir on Saturday late in the evening, and his body was fished out on Sunday morning. Search operation According to the area police, after weeks of inactivity, Gopi(40) had ventured into the waters with fishing nets on a boat on Saturday. After casting nets, he was reportedly returning to the shore at dusk, when sudden gales and downpour caused the boat to capsize in the middle of the reservoir, they said. After an hour-long rescue operation on Saturday night, it was resumed on Sunday morning when experienced divers also joined the rescue team of policemen, officials and personnel from disaster management. The body was fished out after a three-hour-long search and was shifted to Government Hospital at Satyavedu for autopsy. Satyavedu MLA Koneti Adimulam consoled the family members and placed a request with Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta to come to their rescue. The family members told the MLA that with the lockdown orders easing a bit, Gopi had to resume fishing as the family had been going through hard times for the last two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherman-drowns-in-araniyar-reservoir/article31718712.ece
01 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop mudslinging, Deputy CM tells Naidu||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu is frustrated at the “incredible success” of the YSRCP government , Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy has said. Addressing the media at GD Nellore after inaugurating a Rythu Bharosa Kendram (RBK), he said if Mr. Naidu was really interested in people’s welfare, he should stop mudslinging and come for a public debate with constructive suggestions. “At a time when the Chief Minister is making relentless efforts to uplift all sections of people, with focus on education and public health, Mr. Naidu’s coterie is politicising every scheme intended for public good,” the Minister said. ‘Promises fulfilled’ The Chief Minister, besides tackling the COVID-19 crisis effectively, had ensured implementation of the promises made to the people. “Not at single scheme has been shelved,” the Minister said. Referring to introduction of English medium in government schools, he said, “When almost all the parents and students are in its favour, the TDP leaders are making efforts to scuttle the process.” Excise policy He said that Mr. Naidu was spreading falsehood on the excise policy aimed at implementing total prohibition in phases. “The liquor consumption has drastically fallen . Constitution of Special Enforcement Bureau squads to check illicit liquor trade is a visible step to end the evil,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-mudslinging-deputy-cm-tells-naidu/article31719180.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paramesham appointed KRMB Chairman||Ahead of meetings of the Krishna Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Boards (GRMB) slated for June 4 and 5 respectively, the Ministry of Jal Shakti has appointed full-time Chairman to KRMB. According to a circular issued by the Ministry, A. Paramesham, who is functioning as the Member Secretary of KRMB at present, has been posted as the Chairman, relieving J. Chandrashekhar Iyer of his additional charge. Mr. Iyer would, however, continue as the Chairman of GRMB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paramesham-appointed-krmb-chairman/article31719175.ece
01 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGB disburses Rs. 106 crore as COVID-19 loan||Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank has sanctioned a ‘COVID-19 loan scheme’, providing financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 106.10 crore to 15,490 customers during the lockdown. The bank normally holds social and charitable activities like blood donation camps and honouring dignitaries on its annual day, but stayed away from such activities on its fourteenth anniversary that was observed on Sunday in order to avoid mass gatherings. With 552 branches and eight regional offices spread across Kadapa, Anantapur, Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam districts, APGB also extended the moratorium benefits as per the RBI guidelines, chairman A. Venkata Reddy said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apgb-disburses-rs-106-crore-as-covid-19-loan/article31719191.ece
01 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||20, including six migrants, contract virus in East Godavari||As many as 20 persons, including six migrants who returned from Gujarat, contracted the virus in the East Godavari district on Sunday taking the tally to 239. The six migrants had tested positive during their stay in the quarantine centres in Amalapuram and Bommuru. They have been admitted to the Konaseema Institute of Medical Science in Amalapuram. “The other 14 persons have been identified as primary or secondary contacts of those who were tested positive in the Gollala Mamidada village,” District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu told The Hindu . Among the 14 cases, Rajupalem, Velangi, Vemulapalli reported three each and one case was reported from Vetlapalem village near Samalkot town in the Kakinada revenue division, he said. Safety norms On Sunday, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy inspected the precautionary measures being followed to prevent the spread of the infection at the Samalkot railway station. Mr. Muralidhar appealed to the railway authorities to ensure that the safety norms were followed stringently on the premises as also on the trains that passed through the station. Vizag Staff Reporter adds Meanwhile, four new cases have been reported in the Visakhapatnam district, while another two patients who were undergoing treatment got discharged after testing negative, here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-new-cases-push-eg-tally-to-239/article31718714.ece
01 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||615 of 900 patients discharged in Kurnool||Six COVID patients were discharged on Sunday as they tested negative on two consecutive days after 14 days of treatment. Death toll While five of them were discharged from the Santhiram COVID Hospital, one was discharged from the Government General Hospital, Kurnool. District Collector G. Veerapandian said that the number of discharged patients reached 615 on Sunday, while the death toll stood at 20. Out of the 900-odd patients testing positive in the district, only 200 are getting treatment in the hospitals, he said. Among those discharged on Sunday, one person was from Kurnool, two from Kosigi, one each from Kowthalam, Yemmiganur, and Nandikotkur. Meanwhile, the number of clusters has come down drastically as no new cases were reported in the majority of the 50 clusters drawn at the beginning of the Lockdown 4.0, the Collector said. Containment zones in Atmakur and Pamulapadu municipal limits have been de-notified, and only five re-drawn areas have been notified as containment zones. The new ones are in: Kosigi, Alur, Tuggali, Devarakonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/615-of-900-patients-discharged-in-kurnool/article31718715.ece
01 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alumni use lockdown time to renovate school||Inspired by the ‘Naadu-Nedu” programme of the State government, the 10th class 1983 batch students of Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalayam in Nandyal town have given a facelift to the buildings of their alma mater. Fixing lights and fans in classrooms, the school front area and getting new blackboards has been the focus of the alumni association, said Sivakumar Reddy from the batch, currently working as the Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories, Chittoor. “We have spent our time during the COVID-19 lockdown by cleaning, whitewashing and fixing the electric wires and fixtures ourselves and spent only Rs. 1 lakh for buying the fixtures,” Mr. Sivakumar Reddy added. Completing the whole process at the Sanjeevnagar school within a week, the old students, now working in different places of the country, went back satisfied on Sunday. High positions The members of this batch are currently working in ISRO and DRDA as scientists, as software professionals, State and Central government officers and as engineers in Transco and Genco. Some of them are entrepreneurs and traders. Students from backward classes and financially weak background study in this school, they said and were happy to see some of the students sneaking into the school building to have a look at the renovated classrooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alumni-use-lockdown-time-to-renovate-school/article31718717.ece
01 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former MLA booked for ‘violating’ COVID norms||A case was registered against former Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLA from Nandigama Tangirala Sowmya and several others for allegedly violating the COVID-19 guidelines, Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said on Sunday. A Nandigama-based advocate, B. Srinivasulu, lodged a complaint with the police alleging that COVID-19 guidelines were ignored during party president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s visit from Hyderabad to Vijayawada by road on May 25. “A case has been registered against Ms. Sowmya and others. The role of Mr. Naidu is being investigated, but he has not been named in the FIR,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu told The Hindu . The police registered FIR against Ms. Sowmya and others under Section 188 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-mla-booked-for-violating-covid-norms/article31719038.ece
01 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two siblings drown in pond at Gudivada||Two youngsters were drowned in a pond at the drinking water project site in Gudivada town in Krishna district on Sunday afternoon. They were identified as K. Harshavardhan(20) and K.Premchand(19). Gudivada II town Sub-Inspector V. Srinivasa Rao said: “Harshavardhan reportedly took an attempt to take a selfie on the bank of the pond but slipped into it. His brother made a bid to rescue him, but drowned in the process,” the SI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-siblings-drown-in-pond-at-gudivada/article31718711.ece
01 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy dies in wall collapse||In a tragic incident, a five-year-old boy reportedly died in a wall collapse at Pidurupalem village near Manabolu in Nellore district on Sunday. According to the police, the victim, who was identified as Sriram, was playing outside when a wall of the house belonging to one Ramanaiah collapsed on him. The boy died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-dies-in-wall-collapse/article31719193.ece
01 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 persons test positive in Nellore, Prakasam districts, active cases 87||Fourteen persons, 10 in SPSR Nellore district and four in Prakasam district, tested positive for the viral disease on a day when lockdown 4.0 ended. Nellore District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu asked the health officials to put all Chennai returnees on home quarantine after screening them at Tada check-post, as the district continued to bore the brunt of COVID-19. The number of active cases rose to 66 in Nellore district, where 406 persons were quarantined. Tada registered four new cases followed by Sullurpeta, Nellore and Udayagiri that reported two cases each, a health bulletin said on Sunday. The district administration decided to set up a baby care centre at the Government General Hospital to take care of children whose parents tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy reviewed the situation at Vennavada and provided relief to coronavirus-hit people at Atmakur, his home constituency. In Prakasam district, a 39-year-old man and his eight-year-old son who had returned from Maharashtra to Palukuru village, near Kandukur, and a 54-year-old man at Karedu village who returned from Chennai, got infected, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. Source unknown Health officials were perplexed over the source of infection of a 75-year-old woman from Rajupalem village as she had no travel history to any of the hotspots. With this, the number of active cases mounted to 21 so far in the district, where first set of patients-- Delhi returnees and their primary contacts were cured of the disease. A containment action plan was implemented in Kandukur, Ulavapadu and Tangutur mandals by the health officials. Sanitary staff swung into action and sanitized the affected places.  Chennai returnees lead the tally The new set of cases emerged among persons with travel history either to Tamil Nadu or Maharashtra when almost all those who had tested positive on their return from Nizamuddin in New Delhi got cured. So far, 14 persons who had returned from Chennai had got infected in Prakasam district. Four other persons infected so far had come either from Pune or Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-persons-test-positive-in-nellore-prakasam-districts-active-cases-87/article31718720.ece
01 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strictly follow COVID-19 protocols, people told||The Srikakulam district officials urged people to strictly follow COVID-19 protocols, including wearing of masks and following social distancing norms, as positive cases have been increasing for the last few days. The total number of cases reportedly increased to 130 in the district. A majority of them are related to returnees from various States. Only four cases were identified as contact related in the district. Recently, a staff nurse working in RIMS isolation ward was tested positive. The district administration took precautionary measures in Mahalakshmi Nagar where she is residing. It had already declared PN Colony as containment zone. District Collector J. Nivas asked doctors and medical staff working in isolation wards and COVID hospitals to be careful about their health. The situation is expected to become critical with the removal of curbs on inter-State movement from June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strictly-follow-covid-19-protocols-people-told/article31719204.ece
01 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Truckers breathe easy as curbs on inter-State transport go||The transport sector, which was badly hit with the prolonged lockdown, got a breather with the removal of curbs over the inter-State transport. The Union government allowed transporters to ply vehicles to all States from June 8. Although the government had given many relaxations during the lockdown-3, industries and business houses could not get materials from other States with the ban on inter-State movement of vehicles. Many pharmaceutical companies and other industries located in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts could not get raw material from other States with the lockdown imposed on March 24. The textile business was also affected since the markets of these two districts completely depend on Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and West Bengal for materials. Cashew industry in Palasa-Kasibugga has also got relief with the removal of curbs on movement of vehicles. The transport sector welcomed the relaxation. But said that the industry would be able to resume its activity only when the Union and the State governments extend helping hand. AP Lorry Owners Association vice-president M. Janakiram Reddy said that the government’s support to the industry was need of the hour . The Centre should announce a package since lorry owners were burdened with payment of EMIs to banks and private financial companies. The government should also waive tax and insurance premiums for at least one year,” he said. ‘Lack of manpower’ North Andhra Lorry Suppliers Association leader Gude Vasu said that the demand for vehicles would improve only when the economic activity is revived. He said that vehicles were ready for goods transport but lack of sufficient manpower is a problem. “Many drivers and cleaners had left for their native places. Bringing them back will be a Herculean task,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/truckers-breathe-easy-as-curbs-on-inter-state-transport-go/article31719210.ece
01 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanskrit varsity sees demand for online courses||As the lockdown period continues, the National Sanskrit University (NSU) continues to receive encouraging response from people across the globe to its online diploma and certificate courses. The erstwhile Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha chose to bring some of its classical courses to the reach of Sanskrit and literature enthusiasts through the internet, offering a wholesome learning experience. For advanced learners, the varsity launched free online courses like Functional Sanskrit, classics like Raghuvamsa Mahakavya, Vyakarana Praveshika, Siddhanta Kaumudi and Viveka Chudamani, apart from ‘Swarakalpana’, a special course on music, last month. Taking full advantage of the lockdown, several students, bureaucrats and employees joined the courses to learn Sanskrit. In fact, many from the United States, Africa, UAE and Singapore, hailing from varied professions like public administration, law, medicine and software, have evinced interest in the courses despite having no prior knowledge of Sanskrit. “More than 2,000 people enrolled for our free courses offered from April 5 to May 17. In tune with the growing public demand, we are offering eighteen new diploma and certificate courses in Sanskrit, music, Yoga, Vedanta, Jyotisha and so on from June 1,” Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma said. The courses are receiving a positive response from students. “We are a team of eight friends preparing for IAS, and all of us joined the online programme to pursue multiple courses. I wish the university starts guiding candidates who opt for Sanskrit literature in civil services,” Munagala Sivaprasad, an IAS aspirant, wrote. Similarly, Alakshendra Tripathi from Uttar Pradesh found the course a ‘blessing’ during the lockdown. Saraswathi Murali, a Chennai-based chartered accountant, appreciated the staff’s commitment to teach even on Sundays, their ease at driving home complex grammar subjects to novices and the ‘live’ examples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nsu-sees-rise-in-demand-for-online-courses/article31718746.ece
01 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,200 migrants leave for home||More than 1,200 migrant workers employed in Sri City left for their native places in different States. The process started on May 21 and the last batch left on Sunday morning. Sri City employed 2,000 guest workers, hailing from Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, in construction work at various industries. Special buses with 50% capacity were arranged to take them to the Chittoor railway station, from where they would be boarding the Shramik Special trains to reach their home. They will undergo institutional quarantine for 14 days and home quarantine for a similar period later. Each of the workers was provided a kit containing snacks, drinking water, hand sanitiser, a T Shirt and a cap. “I have been working here for the past two years. I used to go home once in two months, but had to stay back for a long time due to the lockdown. ,” says Ved Prakash Singh from Krishi Nagar, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1200-migrants-leave-for-home/article31718722.ece
01 June 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Longleng’ clocks 80,000 km in less than four years!||An Amur falcon silently flew over the temple city of Tirupati in the early hours of May 1, 2020. But for the radio-tagging, it would have passed by unnoticed. Amur falcon is a small bird of prey weighing 200 grams and known for long-distance migration. Named as ‘Longleng’ after a district in Nagaland, this bird was radio-tagged in October 2016 to understand its migratory routes. Long-distance trips Since then, it has clocked a little over 80,000 km in migration for eight long-distance trips between its breeding grounds in East Asia and winter roosting grounds in South Africa, given that the trans-equatorial distance per trip is nearly 10,000 km. It was in 2012 that the bird watching community took note of the large-scale massacre of this species for its meat in Nagaland, a favourite stopover in its migration. The North-Eastern States of Assam, Manipur and Nagaland were found to have multiple locations where the birds congregate in huge numbers. Scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehra Dun, the Conservation of Migratory Birds of Prey in Africa and Eurasia (Raptors MOU), and the Nagaland Forest Department had installed radio-tracking devices on some birds, which brought interesting insights into their migratory pattern. ‘Longleng’ flew non-stop from the Oman coast to Ballari (Karnataka) in 94 hours, covering a mind-boggling distance of 3,800 km at a speed of 40 km/hr. When WII scientist Suresh Kumar observed a skew in its flight path towards the Kolli Hills (Tamil Nadu), the birdwatchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati, predicted its trajectory over Tirupati. “We were excited to find it flying over Renigunta on the city’s outskirts,” IISER’s Citizen Science coordinator Raja Sekhar told The Hindu . Breeding ground On May 14, Longleng had reached a nesting site 500 km north of Beijing, which it visited in the last three years, while several thousands reached their breeding grounds in China’s Inner Mongolia region. Though ‘Longleng’ flew past Tirupati, the possibility of the bird’s stopover here in the future is not ruled out. Records show that the bird had left its footprint in Pulicat lake in Machilipatnam and Visakhapatnam . Similarly, the vast Seshachalam forest around Tirupati hosts a variety of migratory birds every year. IISER’s Citizen Science wing facilitates regular guided bird walks for denizens to understand the winged splendour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/longleng-clocks-80000-km-in-less-than-four-years/article31719182.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan is a cut above the rest: Botcha||Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday said he had never seen a high performing Chief Minister like Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in his political career spanning 25 years. He recalled his stint as a Minister in the Cabinets that were headed by Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, K. Rosaiah and N. Kiran Kumar Reddy and claimed that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was a cut above the rest in fulfilling his commitments. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy treats the party’s election manifesto as religious scriptures. Unlike Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu lived in his own make-believe world and cheated people with his rhetoric for which he paid a heavy price in the 2019 elections,” Mr. Satyanarayana told the media. He said the YSRCP government had inherited a massive debt from the TDP dispensation, which “committed grave irregularities and breached the FRBM limits thereby ruined the economy”. The YSRCP government has released a programme calendar for the coming year proving that it has a vision and is moving in that direction, the Minister said. The due priority has been given to industrial development and necessary changes are being made in the industrial policy. Eliminating corruption is high on the agenda. The Janmabhoomi committees formed by the previous TDP government were a fountainhead of corruption, he observed.  SEC case Mr. Satyanarayana said N. Ramesh Kumar had every right to challenge the government’s policy decision to restrict the term of State Election Commissioner (SEC) to three years in the court law. “However, the TDP owe an explanation whether it moved the High Court due to its affection for Mr. Ramesh Kumar or on grounds which it considered justifiable,” said the Minister and alleged that the TDP has always put individuals above institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-is-a-cut-above-the-rest-botcha/article31719186.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yanamala disputes YSRCP’s claims on development||The State, instead of witnessing development in the last one year as is being claimed by the YSRCP, has gone bankrupt, the opposition TDP has alleged. The YSRCP government, unable to manage the finances, was resorting to blame game, TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu alleged in a statement on Sunday. ‘Waste of money’ He said development had come to a grinding halt. There were no attempts to create wealth and all expenditure was on unproductive heads, he observed. The government wasted Rs. 4,000 crore on YSRCP workers under the garb of village/ward volunteers and village/ward secretariat staff , he alleged. Had these funds been spent on the Polavaram project, another 10% works could have been completed, he said. While Rs. 16,128 crore was allocated for irrigation, only Rs. 3,566 crore was spent. The Rs. 1,850 crore released by the Centre for Polavaram were diverted to non-productive programmes, Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged. “Revenues were nil during the last fiscal. The fiscal and revenue deficits went up. The burden of interest and future payments increased phenomenally. The government neglected the gross fiscal capital formation,” he said. The revenue receipts had up by 11.6% during the TDP term against 1.8% now. But borrowings increased by 135% in just one year against 30.70% during the TDP terms, Mr. Ramakrishnudu claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yanamala-disputes-ysrcps-claims-on-development/article31719184.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People entering State by road to be tested for COVID-19||In yet another attempt to check the spread of coronavirus, the State government has announced that people entering Andhra Pradesh at checkposts set up along the Iner-State border will be tested, starting from June 1. The decision was taken as the restrictions associated with the inter-State travel of people have been relaxed in the fifth phase of the countrywide lockdown which is set to begin from June 1. In a release on Sunday, the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that all the persons travelling to the State have to undergo tests for coronavirus at the checkposts. The department also sought cooperation from the people travelling to the State as the testing is going to be a time-taking process.  Mandatory quarantine Those who test negative for COVID-19 will we asked to stay under home quarantine for 14 days and those who test positive will be moved to institutional quarantine. Separate tests would be conducted for persons with comorbidity, the release added. The department also issued a detailed standard operative procedures (SOP) in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-entering-state-by-road-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/article31719177.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reopening of junior colleges postponed||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has said that reopening of all the junior colleges in the State has been postponed due to the COVID-19. A statement issued by the BIE has said that as per the annual academic calendar, the junior colleges are supposed to be reopened for the academic year 2020-21 on June 1. However, it has been postponed owing to the pandemic and the new date will be announced later, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reopening-of-junior-colleges-postponed/article31719185.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vani Mohan appointed SEC Secretary||Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (APDDCF) Managing Director G. Vani Mohan has been transferred and posted as the Secretary of State Election Commission (SEC). A G.O. (RT No.907) to that effect was issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney on Saturday. A 1996-batch IAS officer, Ms. Vani Mohan holds full additional charge as the MD of APDDCF, Commissioner of Cooperation and Commissioner of Archaeology and Museums until further orders, the government order said. Ms. Mohan’s appointment came amid the controversy over the High Court judgment on the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance-2020, which directed in the reinstatement of N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner. S. Rama Sundara Reddy, who was the secretary when Mr. Ramesh Kumar ceased to be the SEC consequent upon the promulgation of the said ordinance, has been transferred as Joint Collector (Village and Ward Secretariat and Development) in Kurnool district on May 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vani-mohan-appointed-sec-secretary/article31719040.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to protect migrant children’s interests||Andhra Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson G. Hymavathi on Sunday said officials and local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) that are dealing with migrant labourers returning home after lockdown from various States had been told to take utmost care to ensure protection of the interests of the children of these workers in accordance with the guidelines stipulated by the national-level Commission. She said the nodal officers at the quarantine centres should take special care to see that the needs of the children were given equal attention. The Child Welfare & Protection Officers should identify orphan kids if any, among the migrant population and produce them before the respective District Child Welfare Committees from where they could be shifted to child welfare homes. ‘Herculean task’ Appreciating the services of the government and the NGOs to the migrant workers, she said the stress of the Commission was on protection of the rights of children while handling the herculean task of bringing back home a vast population of the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-protect-migrant-childrens-interests/article31719195.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help workers in cinemas, CPI urges CM||The Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna urged the State government to come to the rescue of people working in the cinema theatres. In a letter to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishna said that there were around 15,000 people working in the cinema theatres across 13 districts of the State. The theatres have been closed since the fist phase of lockdown was imposed across the country in March. The managements of cinema theatres have not been paying salaries to the workers for the last two months. They were facing hardships due to the lockdown. The government should help them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-workers-in-cinemas-cpi-urges-cm/article31719176.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi proved his mettle again: Kanna||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had proved his mettle in the first year of the BJP-led NDA government and evolved into a leader of global stature.  ‘Revolutionary steps’ “Mr. Modi took several revolutionary decisions and transformed the country into a force to reckon with while the Opposition parties targeted him for the sake of criticism. The Citizenship Amendment Act, abrogation of Articles 370, breaking of the Ayodhya deadlock and the criminalisation of triple talaq are some of the many decisive moves made by the government amidst heavy odds,” Mr. Lakshminarayana told the media. The manner in which Mr. Modi handled the COVID-19 situation won accolades. Top priority is being given to poverty alleviation and the much-needed employment generation. Besides, the government has given a big boost to the industrial sector and fostered friendly relations with foreign countries in the emerging global order. India is poised to make its mark on the world stage under the leadership of Mr. Modi, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-proved-his-mettle-again-kanna/article31719178.ece
01 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Driving licence validity extended till July 31||Deputy Transport Commissioner (DTC) of Krishna district S. Venkateswara Rao on Sunday said in view of the lockdown, the validity of the driving licence, vehicle registration certificate and fitness certificate (that lapsed during the lockdown period) would be extended till July 31. In a statement, the DTC said the LLR and driving licene tests were being resumed from June 1. Mr. Rao said that following a directive by the government, the vehicles that were seized for operating unlawfully in the lockdown period and cases were booked against them, were being released without collecting any fine and the owners of the vehicles could collect them from the RTA office. Mr. Rao said people who wanted learner’s licence should download the RTO exam app from Google play store and practice before actually visiting the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/driving-licence-validity-extended-till-july-31/article31718723.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Export of mangoes begins from Visakhapatnam Port||A large consignment of Banganapalli mangoes grown in Nuzvid were shipped in a container vessel to London from Visakhapatnam Port for the first time. The consignment was sent through Visakha Container Terminal Private Ltd, a BOT operator of Visakhapatnam Port Trust, in the early hours of Sunday by merchant vessel Diaporos. “This is a proud moment for us. We have made a good beginning after introducing direct container liner service to Western Europe without needing any transhipment,” VPT Deputy Chairman P.L. Haranadh told The Hindu . The consignment, weighing 12 tonnes, is expected to reach London in a month. Locally grown watermelons are also poised for exports, also for the first time from the State, to Dubai next week. In another development, VPT recently received 14 tonnes of apples from Chile for distribution in Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring States. The export of the consignment through the port was initiated by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) from Government Pack House at Nuzvid near Vijayawada. It was ferried to Visakhapatnam by truck and exported in a refrigerated container at a set temperature of eight degrees centigrade. Watermelons need to be stored at a temperature between four and five degrees centigrade. The export was made by Sree Sadaa Siva Agro & Tech, Vizianagaram and transported after customs clearance by Merilyn Shipping & Transports. “This is the first export of the world-famous variety from Visakhapatnam Port through VCTPL, which is connected to all ports in the world with direct vessels to Europe and the Far East, said Aashish Pakalapati, General Manager of Merilyn Shipping & Transports. Overcoming hurdles VCTPL has put up a good show during the lockdown despite a labour and lorry transportation problem by handling 35,345 and 32,822 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) in April and May, 2020 as against 40,481 and 43,989 respectively during corresponding period last year. The terminal, which has a natural depth of 17 metres, is on the East Coast with close distance to Malacca Straits. It has a capacity to handle 0.55 million tonne per annum, which is being increased to over 1.5 million tonne with an investment of Rs. 633 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/export-of-mangoes-begins-from-visakhapatnam-port/article31719198.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unlock 1.0 fails to bring cheer to gym owners in Vizag||Unlock 1.0 does not have any good news for gym owners who were pinning their hopes of getting relaxation after shutting down their operations for over two months. On Saturday, several gym owners from the city held a meeting to discuss about the measures to be followed anticipating relaxation from the government. However, by the evening, their hopes were belied as the Centre did not lift curbs on them. Many of them expressed their dissatisfaction as even shopping malls are allowed to open from June 8 while ignoring the need for health conscious people to have workouts at gyms. According to the gym owners, they are worried over their future due to heavy loss caused by the lockdown. Almost 90% of the gyms are working in rented buildings in the district, for which the gym owners are not able to pay rents. We are financially hit due to the lockdown and unable to pay rents, they said. “We closed gyms on March 20 and even now, we are paying rents. I am paying Rs. 30,000 rent for gym place, apart from my house rent and other expenses. We gym owners also fear that the equipment will need repairs if they are not used properly,” said K. Ganesh, president, Visakha Gym Owners Welfare Association. He said the government should pass an order directing owners not to collect rents from gym owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unlock-10-fails-to-bring-cheer-to-gym-owners-in-vizag/article31719206.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Real-time information given to migrants on availability of buses||A monitoring mechanism has been set up to convey real-time information on buses and number of passengers from the Gurudwara and Isukathota boarding points and the Visakhapatnam railway station. This is part of the initiative by the UNICEF, the State government and civil society partners to help migrant workers stranded on the NH-5 and railway station. The initiative aims at improving relief operations available at the transit points of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram. At the boarding point the focus is to provide drinking water and snacks to migrants, especially children and pregnant and lactating women, in the group. The UNICEF, Hyderabad field office, is working with AP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Women and Child Development Department and Nature, a nodal NGO for Visakhapatnam district for COVID-19 relief. At transit points, over 300 migrant children and families are being helped daily. Among the facilities being offered are sanitary place for 100 persons and refreshments along with basic needs. Special kit A special kit has been prepared for adults with one litre water, fruits, bread, biscuits, soap sanitary pads and children kit with ORS, bananas, biscuits and sweet. “The real challenge is to ensure that all children and families reach their homes safe in their States,” said Prosun Sen, Communication Advocacy and Partnership Specialist, UNICEF, Hyderabad. Nature executive director S.B. Balaraju said constitution of State Migrant Commission would come in handy in addressing the problems of migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/real-time-information-given-to-migrants-on-availability-of-buses/article31719211.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Agency areas virus-free thus far||Strict enforcement of COVID-19 protocols and people’s cooperation have resulted in the Agency areas of the district remaining virus-free so far. Eleven mandals in the Visakha Agency have adhered to the social distancing norms and prevented the entry of outsiders into their hamlets ever since imposition of the lockdown. The district police, with the help of the Integrated Tribal Development Authority (ITDA), the Health Department and others, are enforcing the lockdown norms by setting up nine check-posts, three of them on the inter-State borders at Sileru, Araku and Munchingputtu to prevent entry of people from Odisha, East Godavari, Vizianagaram and other regions into the hamlets. The roads leading to the Agency area from the city too have been closed for vehicular traffic. Awareness drive According to the health officials, their teams, in coordination with ASHA workers, have played a crucial role in creating awareness about the pandemic among the tribal population. A number of people with suspected symptoms have been sent to Paderu for COVID-19 test, and all of them have been tested negative for the virus. Police personnel from Araku, Paderu and other areas have made announcements regarding social distancing and closure of weekly shandies even in the interior areas. “Team work, coordination between the Health, ITDA and other departments, cooperation from tribal people have helped check the spread of COVID-19 in the Agency,” said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Attada Babujee. “A number of hamlets have voluntarily set up barricades to prevent the entry of outsiders,” said Killo Surendra, member of the Andhra Pradesh Girijan Sangham. “A number of businessmen from Narsipatnam and Chodavaram usually attend the weekly shandies and the closure of roads connecting the rural and Agency areas has been proved to be a good move,” he said. The challenge ahead However, officials face a major challenge as nearly 1,500 persons from various States have reached the district. “Many tribal people working in other districts are returning to their native places in the Agency on foot through the Narsipatnam, Cheedikada and Butchayyapeta routes and it goes unnoticed. We need to be careful,” said ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar. He said the officials were enforcing social distancing at markets and other establishments. “People who are coming from other districts to the Agency are being picked up at the disembarking points such as railway stations and bus stations, and shifted to quarantine facility directly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakha-agency-areas-remain-virus-free-so-far/article31719031.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugus stranded in Dubai struggling to make ends meet||Many Telugus stranded in Dubai are struggling to make ends meet after having lost their jobs two months ago due to the coronavirus pandemic. Priyanka Janapareddy from Visakhapatnam and Karun Vijay Kumar from Kerala, fell in love when they were working in Hyderabad two years ago. After their marriage in December 2018 in Visakhapatnam, they decided to move to Dubai in search of better opportunities. Mr. Karun went to Dubai in November last year and Priyanka reached there a month later. Both got jobs as managers in different companies. Their joy, however, was cut short as they lost their jobs in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Visa blues “It is very difficult to survive here without a job as one person needs around 1,000 Dirhams for food and accommodation. We came here on visitors’ visas. The process of our job visa just started and the pandemic happened,” Priyanka, who was working as a business development manager, told The Hindu on phone from Dubai. “Many people came here on visitors’ visas and joined companies only a few months ago. My job visa process was stopped due to the lockdown. The UAE government has extended our visas without imposing any penalties up to December 31, 2020. Most of us were told that it would take around 10 months for the companies to get back on track,” she said. Left in the lurch Giving details of her travails, Ms. Priyanka said the rooms in the building where she lives have beds like berths in a train. “Around 90 people are living in 10 rooms. About 70 % of those living in our building have registered for repatriation. The Indian Embassy in Dubai is not responding to our queries and in the absence of proper information on how long we have to wait for our turn, we are all worried,” she said. She said she had not moved out of the building since March 20. Though the UAE Government has allowed all companies to resume their operations, it is highly unlikely that the normal business activities would resume in the near future. “When the Government of India announced repatriation flights, the process was very slow. Then it started prioritising with pregnant women, and senior citizens. The turn of people with visitors’ visa and those who have lost their jobs comes later,” lamented Ms. Priyanka. Similar is the story of Rama Devi from Bheemunipatnam and her husband M.P. Raju who works for an oil refinery in Sharjah. Mr. Raju is desperate to send his wife back home as she is three months pregnant. The couple has a three-and-a-half-year-old son and things are becoming increasingly difficult for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugus-stranded-in-dubai-struggling-to-make-ends-meet/article31719196.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor looking after Sudhakar changed||The Government Hospital for Mental Care authorities on Sunday changed the doctor who was looking after the condition of suspended doctor K. Sudhakar, who is being treated there after creating public nuisance on the road at Akkayyapalem on May 17. This decision was taken four days after Dr. Sudhakar wrote a letter to the hospital Superintendent to shift him to better healthcare facility alleging that he was being given psychotic drugs which caused reactions in his body. However, the hospital authorities claimed that there were nearly 40 doctors at the facility and change of doctor was a routine move, not due to any allegation. It may be recalled that mother of Dr. Sudhakar demanded that he be shifted to a private hospital for better treatment. She alleged that the turn of events was the outcome of political revenge after her son pointed out the government’s failure in providing masks to the doctors on COVID-19 duty. The CBI on May 30 filed an FIR against unknown police officials, public servants and others in the Dr. Sudhakar case, after being directed to do so by the High Court on May 22.  CBI visits KGH Meanwhile, it is learnt that CBI officials visited the King George Hospital (KGH) on Sunday. Sources said the officials had checked the CCTV footage to ascertain how many police personnel had brought Dr. Sudhakar to KGHand how many took him to Government Hospital for Mental Care. Sources said that the CBI team would collect the footage tomorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-looking-after-sudhakar-changed/article31719188.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three die after drinking surgical spirit in Vizag||Three persons died and one was hospitalised after they allegedly consumed surgical spirit at Kasimkota in Visakhapatnam district. Initially, the police suspected that they might have consumed spirit presuming that it was liquor, but investigation revealed that it was intentional and the persons apparently expected that consuming spirit would give them a better kick than liquor. The deceased have been identified as K. Anand (48), D. Nookaraju (61) and R. Apparao (45), all daily wagers from Kasimkota. “Anand was working with a pharmaceutical company at Parawada. After finishing his night duty, he returned home on Saturday morning. He reportedly stole some surgical spirit from his workplace,” said Anakapalle DSP K. Sravani on Sunday. On Saturday morning, Anand reportedly invited five friends to a party at his house and tried to convince them that consuming spirit would give them a better kick than liquor. “Anand, Nookaraju and Apparao reportedly started consuming the spirit from 11 a.m. By the evening, the three were fine which prompted another person to join the party. However, he consumed spirit in a very little quantity,” said the DSP. By Sunday morning, all the four fell sick and were shifted to Anakapalle Area Hospital. Three persons who consumed more spirit died while undergoing treatment. The fourth man is still undergoing treatment, she said, adding that they are in the process of ascertaining if more people have drunk the surgical spirit. Kasimkota Sub-Inspector L. Himagiri said that the police have registered a case and further investigation is on into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-die-after-drinking-surgical-spirit-in-vizag/article31718663.ece
01 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train services to resume from today||Passengers, with confirmed tickets, going to board trains at the Visakhapatnam railway station from June 1 should report at Gate No. 4 of Platform no. 8 (Gnanapuram side), at least two hours before the actual departure of the train. They will be allowed into station only after thermal screening. Arrangements have been made in close coordination with the civil administration to receive the passengers. Every passenger should be screened for COVID-19 virus infection before boarding and after alighting the train, as per the directives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Health Ministry, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar said in a statement on Sunday. Vehicles coming to drop passengers should enter through the arch at Gnanpuram and exit through the arch at Convent Junction-end. Platform No.1 is only for arrival passengers, i.e., passengers arriving at Visakhapatnam junction will be received on PF-1. The arrival passengers will be screened by authorities and will be allowed to leave the station only after completion of formalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-services-to-resume-from-today/article31719199.ece
01 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC with pic||V. Vizaya Bhaskar, Director, Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, was felicitated on his retirement from service on Sunday. He served in various cadres in the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ministry of Earth Sciences, at different stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc-with-pic/article31719201.ece
01 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dial your Commissioner today||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G Srijana said Dial your Commissioner programme will be held on June 1 (Monday) from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Citizens in the GVMC limits having any sort of grievances can complain during the programme by calling 180042500009, she said in a release on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dial-your-commissioner-today/article31719208.ece
01 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo park to organise online quiz on June 5||On the occasion of World Environment Day scheduled on June 5, officials from Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) are organising an online quiz on ‘Biodiversity.’ The quiz which is open for all will be organised at 9 a.m. on June 5 in the official website of IGZPhttps://www.vizagzoo.com/. For more details and rules of the quiz, interested can check zoo website, said IGZP Curator Yesoda Bai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-park-to-organise-online-quiz-on-june-5/article31719207.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Providing a lifeline||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/providing-a-lifeline/article31718727.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not a walk in the park||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-a-walk-in-the-park/article31719214.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chaos reigns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chaos-reigns/article31719190.ece
01 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Expert team visits Adilabad||The five-member team of experts on locusts constituted by the State government visited Adilabad on Sunday and conducted an aerial survey of bordering areas with Maharashtra along the Penganga river. Principal scientist and entomologist from Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University Dr. S.J. Rehman, who leads the team, explained the salient points of the origins of the locust swarms this year and the drift, to officials from agriculture, horticulture, forest, fire, police and other concerned departments at a review meeting. The media was however asked to leave the review meeting a few minutes into the proceedings by Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V. Satyanarayana, a member of the committee. This development came as a strange development as the leader of the expert team was repeatedly underscoring the need for media refraining from spreading a scare about the locust attack. Adilabad Collector A. Sridevasena said the media will be informed about the proceedings by the District Public Relations Officer. The team, which will be positioned at Ramagundam consists of Dr. R. Sunitha, Central Integrated Pest Management Centres, head of the department, Mancherial Collector Bharati Hollikeri and Warangal Chief Conservator of Forests M.J. Akbar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expert-team-visits-adilabad/article31719015.ece
01 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Helicopter couldn’t take off due to bad weather||The helicopter which was carrying the five-member team of experts on locusts on Sunday from Adilabad to Ramagundam returned to the aerodrome in town within a few minutes of taking off owing to bad weather. The six-seater machine was used by the team earlier to travel to Adilabad and conduct an aerial survey of the bordering areas with Maharashtra and assess the situation vis-a-vis locust attack. The pilot apparently decided to return after encountering strong winds which were prevailing in the area at that time. It is also said that the weather in Ramagundam was also not conducive for landing, according to information. The helicopter had taken off at 3.30 p.m. but returned and the passengers made their way to their destination by road. A police guard was stationed near the chopper at the aerodrome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/helicopter-couldnt-take-off-due-to-bad-weather/article31719017.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown outside containment zones extended||The State government on Sunday issued an order that the lockdown in force with certain relaxations ‘outside containment zones’ will continue till June 7 and that the provisions of lockdown ‘in containment zones’ were extended till June 30. The order also said that the restriction on movement of people from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., as contemplated by the Centre in its new guidelines called ‘Unlock 1.0’ - which were released on Saturday, would apply to the whole of Telangana too. No shops and establishments, except hospitals and pharmacies, will remain open after 8 p.m. There will be no restriction on inter-State movement of persons and no separate permission will be required for such movement, it added. The order was issued after a meeting of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy and other senior officials in the wake of Unlock 1.0 guidelines. The government had last week given certain relaxations to lockdown orders outside containment zones with the objective to permit all types of shops, except malls, to open in Hyderabad and lifted night ban on plying of road transport corporation buses elsewhere. However, certain activities were strictly prohibited which will continue till June 7. They include metro rail services, functioning of schools, colleges and other educational institutions, hospitality services likes hotels, lodges, bars, pubs, cinema halls, theatres, shopping malls, gyms, swimming pools, sports complexes, amusement and zoo parks, museums, auditoriums, religious places, function halls, celebrations and all gatherings for social, political, sports, entertainment, academic and cultural purposes. The inter-State movement of buses and other passengers vehicles which was also prohibited has now been allowed. The government had already permitted within the State movement of buses and passenger vehicles, except in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, which will continue to hold good. The other relaxations given by government will continue enabling operation of taxis, cab aggregators and auto rickshaws, take away and home delivery of food items from restaurants and functioning of barber shops, spas and saloons. Industries and construction activity was permitted and all private and government offices will function without any restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-outside-containment-zones-extended/article31719026.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain soothes the scorched twin cities||The city welcomed heavy showers in several parts on Sunday, which brought solace to people who had been enduring sizzling summer heat for the past one week to 10 days. The rain, which began between 12.30 p.m. and 1 p.m. after an extremely sultry and humid morning, lasted more than two hours in several locations, with varying intensities. Heavy and dusty winds that accompanied the rain resulted in tree branches being brought down and power-cut for long durations in several areas. According to the automatic weather monitoring stations across the city, Shanthi Nagar area in Patancheru and South Hasthinapuram in L. B. Nagar received the highest rainfall, of around seven centimetres. Hydernagar and BHEL in Ramachandrapuram received over five centimetres, while Vaidehi Nagar in Hayatnagar, Thorrur village in Abdullapurmet, Khajaguda, Prashanth Nagar, Chandanagar, Madhapur, and Sumitranagar too received heavy rainfall. Serilingampally, Saroornagar, Qutbullahpur, Saidabad, Khairatabad, Balanagar, Amberpet, Himayatnagar, Golkonda, Shaikpet, Uppal, Kukatpally and others too experienced considerable rainfall. Change in climate brought down the temperatures considerably, with the maximum hovering around 37 degrees Celsius only in the city. The Meteorology department attributed the rain to the upper air trough from Chhattisgarh to Lakshadweep across Telangana, Rayalaseema, South interior Karnataka and Kerala at 0.9 kilometres above the sea level. Besides, the low pressure area persists over South East and adjoining East Central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over East Central and adjoining South East Arabian Sea during the next 24 hours, and likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm, the statement from the department said. The area is very likely to move North and reach North Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts by June 3. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of he South West monsoon into some more parts, including South East Bay of Bengal, and likely to be favourable for othe nset of South West Monsoon over Kerala from June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rain-soothes-the-scorched-twin-cities/article31719002.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telugu expats send an SOS call||Faced with an uncertain future, job loss and ‘overstaying’ Indians trying to take advantage of the amnesty offer amid the COVID-19 pandemic situation, thousands of expatriates working in Kuwait are desperate to return back. Of the 50,000 expatriates registered with the Indian Embassy in Kuwait, at least 17,000 hail from the Telugu speaking Telangana and Andhra Pradesh States. Kuwaiti government had offered amnesty to all ‘illegally’ staying foreigners to leave their country in view of coronavirus. Limited number of flights operated to Hyderabad as part of Vande Bharat mission has only added to the anxiety of the Telugus, according to Gangula Muralidhar Reddy, a social worker helping the Indians in Kuwait. Mr. Reddy on Sunday called The Hindu from Kuwait City to narrate the woes of the thousands of Indians, more particularly those from TS and AP. “For the last 53 days, ever since the Kuwaiti government said all ‘overstaying’ foreigners will be allowed to leave the country, a large number of people have made beeline to the Indian Embassy and enrolled themselves,” he said. According to him, there is still no word from the authorities and the Indians are getting anxious. “A large number of the hapless expatriates have lost their jobs and have no money to buy air tickets. Several of them, including women have health issues and are completely demoralised and desperate to return home,” Mr. Reddy pointed out. Four Migrants Welfare Association representing Telangana State and over 40 organisations working for the expatriates from AP are looking at the two governments to ensure their safe passage. Mr. Reddy said in the 90s, at the height of Iraq War, thousands of Indians were evacuated free of cost by Air India. “The government of India can do the same this time also in view of the pandemic,” he said adding that this would be of great help to the Indians. “They can be sent to institutional quarantine and later provide employment as per their skills,” he urged the TS and AP governments. As per the data, 1.68 lakh illegal expatriates are staying in Kuwait, of whom Indians constitute 42,000. All these Indians have registered for safe exit from Kuwait and are presently housed in the Amnesty Centres run by that country. The appeal for Telangana government to step in and bring back the expatriates staying in Kuwait is growing. “The AP government has created a separate NRI department but in Telangana there is no such department or ministry. This is a long pending demand as lakhs of Telangana expatriates work in Gulf countries,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telugu-expats-send-an-sos-call/article31719035.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. nod to private labs for COVID-19 testing likely soon||Private laboratories in Telangana would soon be allowed to conduct tests for COVID-19, provided they have approval of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Senior officials from the Health department said guidelines are being framed to allow testing at private labs. The method of reporting number of samples tested, the results, criteria for the tests, and other conditions would be mentioned in the guidelines. Though the ICMR has approved 15 private labs in the State — all in and around Hyderabad — to conduct RT-PCR tests to detect coronavirus, the State Health department did not give its nod to them. Currently, samples collected from suspected patients are tested at nine government labs. There has been public demand to allow them to undergo tests at private facilities. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender had earlier said that government facilities are equipped to test a high number of samples. However, a few private labs in Hyderabad conducted tests. Senior officials said the samples tested were from other States. Telangana High Court on May 20, however, stated that private laboratories and hospitals can test samples and attend patients, respectively, provided they have ICMR approval. A day later, Mr Rajender said that they will review the court order to decide further course of action. “We are in the process of framing guidelines for tests at private labs. They will soon be allowed to conduct tests,” a senior official from the Health department said. It remains to be seen if the department fixes any ceiling on charges for the tests. More tests soon The nod to private labs is expected to result in a rise in number of coronavirus tests conducted in the State even as the Health department continues to face harsh criticism about low testing. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Saturday clarified that they are following ICMR guidelines in conducting tests. As per details provided by the Health Minister’s office, 22,842 tests were conducted till May 14 and 30,000 till May 29 — 7,158 tests in the past 15 days. In other words, around 477 tests were conducted per day in the past 15 days, leading to detection of a high number of positive cases. The number is likely to increase after private labs start conducting tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-nod-to-private-labs-for-covid-19-testing-likely-soon/article31718984.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fuel use on rise as life gets back into groove||Petrol and diesel consumption in Telangana is on revival course, presumably faster than anticipated, as COVID-19-triggered-lockdown and restrictions that severely impacted the offtake are being relaxed. ‘It is pretty good now’ is how R. Sravan S. Rao, executive director and State head of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, sought to sum up the pick-up in demand. As Telangana, like the rest of the country, braced up for the fight against the pandemic with the lockdown in the second half of March, roads became deserted as most of the vehicles stayed away and people remained indoors with police cracking down on those violating the guidelines. Indeed, the number of vehicles coming to petrol pumps turned into a trickle. Many petrol bunks also functioned only for a few hours in a day. According to officials, the fuel offtake in March was just one-fourth of that registered in March 2019. Improvement from May In April it improved, but still was a shade less than 50% of the consumption in the corresponding period the previous year. Things started looking up in May as the curbs were relaxed. The petrol offtake in the current month is around 75% compared to the same period last year, while in the case of diesel it is around 80%. A key driver of revival in diesel consumption was farm activity, specifically harvesting. Helping matters was also the Centre’s emphasis on facilitating road movement of cargo, particularly its insistence that inter-State movement of essential goods not be impeded. Petrol offtake could be linked to reopening of some commercial establishments, private offices allowed to function with limited staff and many people venturing out of their houses. Heatwave damper But for the heatwave-like conditions, the demand could have been slightly higher, Mr. Rao said, adding it, however, would be some months before return of normalcy in fuel offtake. Echoing similar sentiments on the long road ahead, a senior official of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL) said fuel intensive operations such as mining were yet to resume, many industrial units were operating with limited staff and only up to the permitted level of their capacity, while IT industry, where transportation of employees is a norm, continued with a work-from-home policy. Concurring with the officials on the time to normalcy, Telangana Petroleum Dealers’ Association president M. Amarender Reddy said the actual sales or fuel dispensed through nozzles would be relatively less as companies tended to push products to the dealers. For the trade, the lockdown translated into lower sales, even as operational costs remained the same and there was delay in receipt of payments from bulk users such as bus and truck operators who were supplied on credit. Big players National oil marketing companies IOC, HPCL and Bharat Petroleum Corporation dominate the automobile fuel market in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, accounting between them for around 95% of the 7.466 million tonne (MT) sales in 2019-20, while the rest is with private players. In Telangana, petrol sale last fiscal was 1.28 MT as against 1.19 MT in 2018-19, while diesel consumption saw a fall at 3.621 MT (3.85 MT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fuel-use-on-rise-as-life-gets-back-into-groove/article31718981.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Showers forecast for two more days||The trough from Chhattisgarh to Lakshadweep area across Telangana, Rayalaseema, South interior Karnataka and Kerala is resulting in rain and thundershowers, brought down the maximum temperatures in the twin cities and a few parts of the State on Sunday. Cloudy sky with chances of rain and thundershowers was forecast for the next two days. The annual Southwest monsoon is expected to makes its appearance in Kerala on Monday and it could take a few more days to reach here, according to the India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad Centre. Day temperature fell by close to six degrees Celsius due to the showers of 16.4 mm till 8.30 p.m. It was 37.3 degrees C during the day and minimum temperature continued to be above average at 29.6 degrees C. No large change was expected on Monday with maximum temperature around 38 degrees C and minimum temperature 28 degrees C. Only Hanamkonda recorded a lower day temperature as in Hyderabad at 37 degrees C. Otherwise, in most of the towns, it was hot with temperatures recording more than 40 degrees C. The highest temperature of the State was recorded at Adilabad 42.3 degrees C, Nizamabad 42.2 degrees C, Nalgonda 42 degrees C, Bhadrachalam 40.6 degrees C and Khammam 41 degrees C, the IMD meteorologists said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/showers-forecast-for-two-more-days/article31718996.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three OMC students, alumnus test positive||Junior doctors in Telangana are spending anxious moments with at least three more medical students and an alumnus of Osmania Medical College (OMC) testing positive for COVID-19. On Saturday, one post graduate (PG) student of the college had tested positive. All of them stay in the OMC hostel at Koti with two of the PG students being roommates. Test results of their close contacts are awaited. Worried for families Concerned about their safety and that of their family members, junior doctors who attend patients in government hospitals have demanded more tests to be conducted on healthcare professionals. They have also sought separate accommodation facilities so that their families are not exposed to the risk of virus, and reintroduction of mandatory quarantine for healthcare professionals. The first case was that of a gynecology PG student from the college who attended patients at a government hospital. Thereafter, her roommate, too, tested positive. Two other PG students are day scholars. Officials said 17 batchmates of the gynaecology student and her hostel mates will be tested. Though the hostel was sanitised, decision to close it or declare it as a containment zone is yet to be taken. Alumnus mystery “Contacts of the PG students were shifted to an unoccupied floor in a new hostel. Their belongings too were shifted to the new rooms,” said a student who stays at the college hostel. College authorities are now investigating out how the alumnus managed to stay in the hostel as he did not have the permission. Telangana Junior Doctors Association president K.U.N. Vishnu said that accommodation has to be provided to healthcare professionals to protect their families. “We are and will continue to work in the hospital. But why should we put our families at risk? Earlier, one-third of the workforce was quarantined for 5-6 days. That must be reintroduced,” he demanded. Officials said that the quarantine is still implemented in COVID-19 care centres, including Gandhi Hospital and Chest Hospital. “All standard protocols were initiated. We will follow Union Health Ministry’s guidelines to quarantine healthcare professionals. We are also providing safety gear to our professionals. Anyone working in a ward, such as emergency ward, where time to screen patients is less, we ask them to use personal protective equipment,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-omc-students-alumnus-test-positive/article31718986.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sports stars pledge to protect youth from tobacco addiction||Top sporting personalities from the city — former cricketer VVS Laxman, chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand and ace shuttler P.V. Sindhu — have joined hands to protect the youth of the country from the menace of tobacco products. “Youth are the backbone of a nation. It is heartening to see youth icons pledging support to spread mass awareness against the use of tobacco to make young students aware of the repercussions of tobacco consumption and the need to stay away from any form of tobacco,” the stars said in a statement released by Voluntary Health Association of India and Indian Dental Association of India and Indian Dental Association (Deccan Branch). “On World No Tobacco Day, let’s pledge to spread awareness on the risks of tobacco consumption and protect our younger generation from the menace of tobacco products,” Mr. Laxman said. A Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) carried out by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare conducted among students in India revealed that 14.6% of those in the age group of 13-15 years are using tobacco in India. Of those, 8.1% of students smoked tobacco. As many as 11% of all male students surveyed were found to be users of smoking or smokeless tobacco, while 6% of female students used smokeless tobacco and 3.7% smoked tobacco. Nearly 37% children in India start smoking before the age of 10 and each day, 5,500 children begin tobacco use. The findings of these studies highlight the need for targeted interventions among youth in general and students in particular, especially given the marketing overdrive of the tobacco industry to promote the use of tobacco among youth. Every year, on May 31, World Health Organization and partners mark World No Tobacco Day. The annual campaign is an opportunity to raise awareness on the deadly effects of tobacco use and second-hand smoke exposure, and to discourage use of tobacco in any form.  Let’s pledge to spread awareness on the risks of tobacco consumption and protect our younger generation from the menace of tobacco products. V.V.S. Laxman, Former cricketer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sports-stars-pledge-to-protect-youth-from-tobacco-addiction/article31718991.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Students draft plan to reclaim OU lands||The ‘illegal’ occupation of Osmania University peripheral lands has yet again brought into focus the need to save the lands and restore the glory of Telangana’s jewel. The legality of the lands has been a bone of contention, particularly the peripheral areas where several colonies have come up over the years. The only solution to end this is to construct a compound wall and at the same time give it a shape on the lines of world-class universities — this is among the several measures suggested by students, alumni and teachers to keep the lands safe and turn the university into a tourist spot as well. Senior faculty and students approached the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) officials with several suggestions, including constructing a compound wall, developing a walking and cycling track on the periphery on the lines of KBR Park, relocating people living in camps on the varsity campus, finding lasting solution to the controversial claims, refurbishing entry gates with little access to outsiders and ensuring the varsity showcases itself to the world in a grand way. About 90 to 100 acres of the varsity land out of the 1,627 acres are now disputed with claims pouring in from all four sides of the campus. Moreover, there are 10 camps where people have been living for several decades. Students want these camps to be shifted outside. A group of students and faculty members has submitted a representation to the GHMC seeking its help in giving shape to their ideas. It is said the GHMC is ready to implement the suggestions if the government directs it to do so. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, who is also an alumnus of the varsity, said plans suggested by the faculty and students can be viewed seriously. Since students are objecting to entry of private vehicles into the campus, the route can be closed with the Tarnaka-Adikmet road widened to accommodate the vehicle flow. They have also submitted some designs of their ideas. A senior faculty member said the group suggested that the Adikmet road be widened till the Jamai-Osmania flyover for creating the alternate route and divert the vehicle from the campus main road. Residents of the camps inside the campus can be shifted by allotting them double bedroom houses and the residents apparently expressed willingness to it. These houses can be built by demolishing the residential quarters beside the Distance Education building and the present residents, too, can be accommodated there easily. ‘Awaiting CM’s nod’ Mr. Rammohan agreed to the suggestions that four massive gates can be built on the four sides — near police station entry, NCC gate entry, and one each at Ramanthapur and Habsiguda approach roads. These will lend it a world-class varsity look as India is bound to attract more foreign students. “The idea of a compound wall with walking and cycling tracks too are implementable. GHMC or HMDA can do it only if Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao gives his nod,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/students-draft-plan-to-reclaim-ou-lands/article31718993.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railways Board forms eight member panel for cadre reskilling||The Ministry of Railways and the Railway Board is certainly busy with the proposed running of more trains from Monday, but in the meantime, it is also pushing ahead with its reforms agenda of transforming the working mode of its officers and staff in tune with the restructuring of various wings. The RB has announced the constitution of a eight-member high powered committee to look into various issues pertaining to the re-skilling of the staff. The members of the committee are principal executive directors and executive directors of engineering services, traffic & transportation, signal & telecommunication, finance, projects and others with an executive director being the convenor. The panel formed more than a fortnight ago has been tasked with identifying the cadre who can be trained and used for multi-skills, the scope and details of the kind of skills to be imparted to the chosen railway officials, fixation of seniority in the merged cadre, pay grades in the merged cadre and medical classification. The Railways had initiated a massive exercise of having a unified Indian Railways Management Service (IRMS) in the place of the current eight services, including engineering, rolling stock, traffic, finance and signal & telecommunications, among others. Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav had said that this became imperative to remove the “departmentalism” mindset in the top echelons and have a clear cut strategy for policy decisions in view of the massive investments expected under Public, Private Partnership (PPP) mode. Training modules The Railway Board communication has stated that the committee can take the assistance of Director General of National Academy of Indian Railways (NAIR) while formulating and finalising the training modules for the merged cadre. A manpower planning department has been made as the nodal branch for functioning of the committee from New Delhi. This particular branch will supervise the submission of the recommendations, implementation, answering any queries raised in different quarters and so on. The committee has been directed to submit its recommendations within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railways-board-forms-eight-member-panel-for-cadre-reskilling/article31719037.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ponnam question BJP’s contribution||TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar demanded a white paper from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on its contribution to Telangana in the last six years. At a press conference here, he objected to the claims of Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy that BJP addressed several key issues of the country, and said the issues taken up by the BJP had only divided the society and there is nothing for the poor people of the country. He said Triple Talaq, Abolition of Article 370 and Ram Mandir issues had only developed fissures in the society than solving the problems of the common man. He said the economy has taken a nosedive in the last six years affecting millions of poor and middle class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ponnam-question-bjps-contribution/article31719020.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SHRC directs DCP to file report on ‘manhandling’||The Telangana State Human Rights Commission took up the case of a man who claimed to have been assaulted by the police while in detention, and directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police (West Zone) to file a report. The petitioner, identified as Mohammed Ismail (30), who is a resident of Tappa Chabutra, said that a group of people had assaulted his brother Mohammed Akbar Ali late in the night on May 27 after which he sustained injuries. The petitioner said that when we went to file a complaint at the Tappachabutra police station, he was detained and alleged that two constables and a police van driver abused and beat him. He alleged that they did not accept his complaint. The TSHRC directed the DCP to file a report by July 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shrc-directs-dcp-to-file-report-on-manhandling/article31719011.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power supply affected in several areas||Heavy rain in several parts of the city disrupted power supply for a few hours on Sunday. Officials of the Southern Power Distribution Company attributed the interruption in power supply to minor problems such as insulation bursting/damage, loose contact, rust and dust in conductor joints and tree branches falling on transmission conductors. Although power supply was restored in about 270 out of about 300 feeders mostly in Hyderabad South and Central circles in one to three hours, it was delayed in some areas. According to discom officials, power supply was affected in Saifabad, Azamabad, Rethibowli, Indira Park, Mint Compound, A.C. Guards and a few other areas in the Central circle. In South circle, outage was reported in Charminar, Asmangadh, Begum Bazar, Sultan Bazar, Saidabad and a few other areas. Isolated instances of breakdown in power supply were also reported in Secunderabad and Rajendranagar circles but there were very few complaints in Banjara Hills, Cyber City, Saroornagar and Habsiguda circles. The officials stated that power supply was stopped to some of the feeders at sub-station level where the tree cover was more as rain intensified in the afternoon. In some areas, it was stopped after locals reported sparks at conductor joints, particularly near distribution transformers, as insulation was damaged by high temperatures in recent weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-supply-affected-in-several-areas/article31718994.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth murdered ‘by friends’||A 20-year-old youth was murdered by his friends in Bahadurpura here on Saturday night over previous enmity, the police said. The victim, Shaik Mohammed from Aibagh in Kalapathar, was found in a pool of blood in the bushes near Mir Alam tank. Police said that on Saturday evening, the youth’s friends Mohammed Sajid Khan, Syed Siddique and Mohammed Azzar went to the former’s house and took him with them to settle their previous disagreements. “Around 8 p.m.they took him and by 10.30 p.m. his grandmother Mumtaz Begum came to know about the death of her grandson. The accused slit his throat,” Bahadurpura inspector Durga Prasad said. He said that two weeks ago, the trio had a quarrel with the victim for smoking ganja and consuming liquor during the holy month of Ramzan. Mohammed’s parents passed away when he was child. On a complaint by his grandmother who suspected the hand of the friends, a case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-murdered-by-friends/article31718998.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Keshavulu’s tenure as TSSOCA director extended||The State government has extended the tenure of K. Keshavulu as Director of Telangana State Seed and Organic Certification Authority (TSSOCA) for a period of five years to enable him take up and complete the term as the president of International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) from 2022-25. In addition to his post as Director of TSSOCA, Mr. Keshavulu is also holding the charge as the Managing Director of Telangana State Seed Development Corporation and is the vice-president of ISTA. He was elected to the ISTA post in June last year during the 32nd congress of the international body held here. As per the ISTA constitution he would succeed as its president automatically when the body meets in New Zealand for its 33rd congress in 2022. The 32nd congress of ISTA was the first meet of the organisation held in Asia, first time in its 95 years history, and Mr. Keshavulu is the first Asian to be elected as its vice-president. “It’s a great opportunity for strengthening the Indian seed industry by improving the share in international seed market, improving the efficiency of seed certification agencies, seed corporations, accreditation of seed testing labs in the country and to improve global networking of seed companies,” Agriculture Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy said in the orders extending the tenure of Mr. Keshavulu. Mr. Keshavulu was the principal scientist in the seed science wing of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University before he was made the first Director of TSSOCA five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keshavulus-tenure-as-tssoca-director-extended/article31719033.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Hyderabad Boys’ running kitchen for migrants||A kitchen set up by ‘The Hyderabad Boys’ of the Sri Satya Sai Seva Organisation, Puttaparthi, led by Udayabhaskar Reddy has been making and supplying almost 8,000 food packets along with water sachets every day since April 13 for migrants leaving in trains to various destinations. A few volunteers have made the kitchen their home for the past 43 days and are ensuring all precautions are followed on the premises. G. Shantaram of Shobha Gardens has handed over the premises to run the mega programme by volunteers who are either self employed or working in private organisations with each being assigned a specific role. About 2.65 lakh food packets and 3,100 dry ration packs have been distributed. DIG CID, Women’s protection cell and in-charge of COVID-19 relief B. Sumathi has been personally coordinating with the team for providing food, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-boys-running-kitchen-for-migrants/article31718987.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC drive from today||A special week-long sanitation drive will be taken up in all 150 divisions of GHMC from June 1, a press statement said. The programme up to June 8 will mainly focus on clearing the garbage on the roadside, and in open plots, de-silting, and de-weeding of all nalas and areas with history of water stagnation, clearing of all construction and demolition waste from public areas and open plots, and clearing of roadside bushe. Each ward will be divided into feasible units and each area will be surveyed to identify the number of open plots, and those with garbage, C&D waste along roadside, water stagnation areas etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-drive-from-today/article31719003.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||15th LS members to pay tributes to martyrs||Members of the 15th Lok Sabha that passed the historic Telangana bill granting it separate statehood will gather at the Martyr’s Memorial on June 2, the formation day of Telangana, to recall the role played by them in the formation of the State and pay tributes to the people who committed suicide for the cause. TPCC working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar in a statement here said that members of the 15th Lok Sabha played a key role in the Telangana struggle, highlighting the cause in the Parliament and at other forums. Their role cannot be undermined as they confronted a strong lobby from the Andhra area politicians and fought for five years. “We highlighted the cause inside and outside the Parliament drawing nation’s attention to it and we will gather once again to pay tributes to the people,” he said. The members of that Parliament, including former Union Ministers -- Sarve Satyanarayana, Balaram Naik and others from various parties -- G. Vivekanand, Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav, Suresh Shetkar, Ramesh Rathod, Manda Jagannadham, Siricilla Rajaiah and Vijayashanti will be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/15th-ls-members-to-pay-tributes-to-martyrs/article31719021.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Elderly man killed in road accident||Alleged negligent driving by a GHMC garbage truck driver claimed the life of an 80-year-old man at Lalapet here on Sunday. The Osmania University police said the accident took place around 11.30 a.m. when AR Immanuel, a resident of Ramnagar in Tarnaka, was proceeding towards Lalapet on his scooter. “When he got down at Lalapet and reached Ambedkar statue junction, the truck driven by E Ravinder hit his two-wheeler from behind. As a result, Immanuel fell off the bike, suffered severe injury and died on the spot,” police said. A case was registered against Ravinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elderly-man-killed-in-road-accident/article31718999.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inter remaining exams on June 3||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has said that the remaining papers of the Intermediate examinations will be held on June 3 as per schedule. The second-year Intermediate Geography paper-II and Modern Languages paper-II will be conducted on June 3 from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. Students can download the hall tickets fromhttps://tsbie.cgg.gov.in. However, if any student who misses this exam due to non-availability of transport or caught in lockdown, such students can write Geography Paper-II in Advance Supplementary examination which will be conducted in the third week of July 2020 as regular candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-remaining-exams-on-june-3/article31719019.ece
01 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three killed as car rams roadside tree||In a suspected case of drunk driving, three persons, including an Armed Reserve Constable with Vikarabad police, were killed and their friend suffered severe injuries when their car rammed a roadside tree near Chevella in Ranga Reddy district on Sunday evening. Police said the accident took place between 6.45 p.m. and 7 p.m. near Mirzaguda Gate when the victims were going to Aloor village. Police constable Yenkatala Raghavender, his friends Sara Naresh and Garela Ravinder, all 30 years old and from Aloor, died on the spot. Nadikuda Naveen Goud is undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-as-car-rams-roadside-tree/article31718997.ece
01 June 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||IAS officer Kamineni Umapathi Rao cremated||Retired IAS officer and scion of Domakonda Kamineni Umapathi Rao (92) who passed away on Friday in Hyderabad was cremated at Laxmibagh crematorium at Domakonda mandal headquarters on Sunday. His son Anil performed the last rites. Megastar Chiranjeevi, his son Ramcharan and his wife and granddaughter of the departed senior bureaucrat Upasana, former MP Visweswar Reddy, relatives and villagers attended the funeral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ias-officer-kamineni-umapathi-rao-cremated/article31719041.ece
01 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Fig fetches him rich returns||A youth who quit his paying software job in Mumbai to return to his native village to take care of his parents has turned into a progressive farmer who has taken up cultivating fig (anjeer) and getting good income from it. Though Katla Srinivas had no idea about cultivation as his father was a coal miner in the Singareni Collieries Company Limited, he learnt farming through media especially The Hindu and took up cultivation of fig, which is normally grown in countries like the USA, Turkey, Israel and Spain, among others, in his ancestral lands at Thirmalapur village in Ramadugu mandal. Mr. Srinivas took up farming in order to provide nutritious food to his ailing parents. Two years ago when his parents were suffering from dengue the doctors advised him to add figs to their diet to help stop the falling platelet count and improve it. This motivated him to become a farmer to produce healthy nutritious food to the people. After doing research on cultivation of anjeer, he secured around 1,000 plants from Raichur and planted them in his 2.5 acres of land on an experimental basis in the year 2019 and used drip irrigation system. He faced several hardships in nurturing them as the plant does not grow in hot weather conditions. He consulted agriculture scientists and used South Korean technology in cultivation by providing nutrients from various oils and eggs to the plant. When the fruit started growing, the monkey and bird menace was another issue. He protected the crop by installing a plastic mesh to keep the birds away and guarded the fields from monkeys by using a public address system to make loud noises and maintained close surveillance. After 11 months, the trees started giving fruits, he is able to harvest 15 to 20 kgs of figs daily. He has been selling them at only Rs. 150 per kg. To ensure a longer shelf life he started washing the fruit in vinegar and is marketing the fruit himself. TS Planning Board Chairman B. Vinod Kumar and Choppadandi legislator Sunke Ravishankar also visited the fields and tasted his figs and lauded his efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fig-fetches-him-rich-returns/article31719047.ece
01 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Karimnagar civic body to take up sanitation drive from today||Buoyed by the successful campaign against the spread of COVID-19 in the town and emerging a role model for the country in containing the virus, the Municipal Corporation of Karimnagar (MCK) has decided to embark on an intensive sanitation drive from June 1 to 8 to check the spread of seasonal diseases in the town. Disclosing this to newsmen here on Sunday, Mayor Y Sunil Rao and municipal commissioner Valluru Kranthi said that they had chalked out strategies for taking up sanitation works in each municipal division by appointing special officers and involving all elected representatives and the general public. As part of the sanitation drive, they would take up cleaning of drains, clearing of open plots, removal of stagnant water and garbage and anti-larval operations such as spraying and fogging operations. They would also educate people not to dump garbage in open drains and impose heavy fine for littering. Similarly, they would chalk out strategies for plantation of saplings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-civic-body-to-take-up-sanitation-drive-from-today/article31719005.ece
01 June 2020||Karimnagar,TELANGANA||Toll charge hike on Rajiv Rahadhari||The biennial toll charge hike at the three toll plazas on the Rajiv Rahadhari (State Highway No. 1) from June 1 has come as a rude shock to vehicle users travelling between Ramagundam coal belt to Hyderabad. The Rajiv Rahadhari is the lifeline of the Karimnagar district as it not connected to a direct railway network to Hyderabad. Initially, it was a single road and later it was made a double road with the Asian Development bank (ADB) funds during the early 90s. Following the steady increase of traffic following the industrial corridor of Ramagundam, the road was later converted into four-lane by the then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy in 2008. The highway starts from Patny in Secunderabad and ends at Indaram, a distance of 206 km., of now Mancherial district. A major portion of the highway passes through the erstwhile Karimnagar district from Shanigaram to Ramagundam, covering almost 150 km. Though the road was converted into four-lane to reduce accidents, accidents still continue following the unscientific execution of the road due to several curves and non-compliance of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) norms. It is alleged that the executing agency had violated several norms of laying four-lane road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toll-charge-hike-on-rajiv-rahadhari/article31719027.ece
01 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Plea to free all political prisoners||Intellectuals, including ailing poet Varavara Rao, and Professor G N Saibaba, and several other political prisoners should be immediately released from jails in Maharashtra in the wake of outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, said CPI (ML-ND) State assistant secretary P Ranga Rao. There were clear-cut guidelines from the World Health Organisation (WHO) to release older people and those with pre-existing health conditions from prisons to protect them and safeguard their human rights in view of the vulnerability of the prisoners to COVID-19, he said. He was speaking at a “Deeksha” organised by the CPI (ML-ND) district committee at Ramnarsaiah Vignana Kendram here on Sunday in conformity with physical distancing regulations to press for the release of Mr Varavara Rao and other political prisoners. "Several intellectuals including poets, scholars and human rights defenders were falsely implicated by the fascist elements at the helm at the Centre in a bid to suppress the voice of dissent," he charged. Most countries around the world released prisoners from jails in adherence to the WHO guidelines to protect them from COVID-19. But the BJP-led Central government chose to keep many political prisoners of advanced age and those ailing from health issues behind the jail walls, he alleged. He demanded that the cases "foisted" against the human rights defenders be dropped. The intellectuals, including Mr Varavara Rao, Prof. Saibaba, and Prof. Anand Teltumbde, human rights activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Naviakha and other political prisoners should be released either on bail or parole without further delay, he said. Mr Rao said the Telangana government should ensure the release of Mr Varavara Rao, who had played a pivotal role in separate Telangana movement for decades, in view of his advanced age and deteriorating health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-free-all-political-prisoners/article31719008.ece
01 June 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||‘Speed up land acquisition process’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon the officials to acquire land in Chinnashankarampet, Toopran and Ramayampet mandals for digging of Ramayampet canal. Funds will be released soon after informing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said. Mr. Rao visited Mission Bhagiratha at Komatibanda and held a review meeting with MLAs, Collector K Dharma Reddy and others. He said that out of 54 km. of canal work, about 40 km. was completed in Siddipet district limits. However, only 30% work of 14 km. in Medak district is complete, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speed-up-land-acquisition-process/article31719029.ece
01 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Jagadish, Uttam in war of words||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy were on Sunday engaged in a heated verbal spat at a meeting to chalk out farming strategy as per regulated cultivation policy. The meeting called by District Collector Prashant Jeevan Patil, held at Udayaditya Bhavan on the Collectorate campus, was attended by officials and leaders of various parties from Nalgonda Assembly constituency. According to Nalgonda MLA K. Bhupal Reddy, the record procurement of paddy here in the concluded season was the result of the efforts put in by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the Minister. And for more profitable agriculture as envisioned in the new policy, he said, every leader should set aside politics and take forward the policy. Other leaders present were Zilla Parishad chairman Banda Narender Reddy, MLC A. Narsi Reddy and MP B. Lingaiah Yadav. When Energy Minister Jagadish Reddy started his speech saying, “The TRS government is the only one to make full loan waiver for farmers,” the Congress chief took objection. “Not a single rupee has been waived till date, when would the waiver be implemented? Even 50% of farmers are yet to get Rythu Bandhu for the concluded season,” he said. Standing face to face, with just a chair between, the leaders pointed fingers at each other and intensified their war of words. “This is not the Assembly nor the Parliament. This is not debate. You can’t ask me questions here,” the Minister replied, taking on the Congress leader, alleging that the senior leader is violating the decorum of the meeting. Speaking to press later, the Minister said the Congress is against the minimum support price for farmers and has become a barrier in the development in the State. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the TRS government is indulgent in self-praise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagadish-uttam-in-war-of-words/article31719013.ece
01 June 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Giri Poshana meets the nutrient needs of tribals||In a move to extend nutrition food for tribal people, Agribusiness and Innovation Platform (AIP) of International Crops Research Institute for Semi Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) and Department of Tribal Welfare, Telangana, have jointly launched Giri Poshana - a tribal nutrition project. The project commenced in January 2019. The aim of the project is to provide nutritional support to tribal women (pregnant and lactating) and children (3-6years) through Anganwadi centres (AWCs) along with the Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDA) with focus on aspirational districts of Komaram-Bheem Asifabad, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Jayashankar Bhupalpally in Telangana. Balanced diet This project is promoting dietary diversity towards improving health status of tribal children and women and is implemented through selected AWCs under the ITDAs at Utnoor, Bhadrachalam and Eturunagaram. The target group are provided with nutritional food products: multi-grain meal, jowar meal, multi-grain sweet meal, energy bar, nutri-cookies and jowar bytes. Among these six products three are Ready to Cook (RTC) and three are Ready to Eat (RTE). These food products have been developed by NutriPlus Knowledge Programme (NPK) at AIP- ICRISAT using local crops and are based on millet, sorghum, and pulses. The food products contain sorghum and millets (source of micro nutrients and vitamins, prebiotics, antioxidants) and pulses (source of protein) ICRISAT field supervisors are monitoring and ensuring that all the beneficiaries receive GP food either at home or from the AWCs. A total of 7,241 beneficiaries have received Giri Poshana food in the month of March 2020. Further, AIP team has explored different ready-to-eat products which can replace ready-to-cook products. Jowar meal is to be replaced by millet flakes mixture, multi grain meal by peanut – fried gram chikki and multi grain sweetmeal by ragi- jaggery cookies. While identifying the products, it was ensured that the nutritional values of the new RTE food products are similar to the RTC products which are being discontinued for this period. To deliver the food, most of the teachers are visiting homes, measuring and delivering the ration once in 15 days while taking precautionary measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19. “Ready-to-eat food is being distributed in ITDA areas of Telangana as part of Giri Poshana in ITDAs – Utnoor, Eturnagaram and Bhadrachalam. Ready to eat food has been distributed in both March and April. Eight food processing units are going to become operational soon to produce these foods locally,” Dr. Saikat Majumdar of ICRISAT told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/giri-poshana-meets-the-nutrient-needs-of-tribals/article31719043.ece
01 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Five injured as rig overturns||Five persons were injured, one of them seriously, when a bore-rigging vehicle overturned on Rajiv Rahadari at Kondapaka on Saturday night. According to the police, the right hand of Rajesh, a driller, was severed from the body. He was shifted to Hyderabad for treatment. Kuknoorpally police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-injured-as-rig-overturns/article31719006.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Sharing bread to survive||“We are surviving on Khubz bread for the last few weeks. A packet of five such flat breads are shared by three of us Telugus,” said Bhukya Sambhaji, an expatriate from Sirikonda mandal of Nizamabad district about their plight post lockdown. “For the last two months, we did not get salary and we were evicted from our rooms for non-payment of rent. We took shelter in our friends’ room but again driven out. We expected our passports to come by May 30 but it did not happen and we have been driven away by the local police. We are desperate to return to India,” he said pleading in an audio WhatsApp message sent to The Hindu on Sunday. Another worker too echoed similar sentiment and pleaded with the Indian Embassy in Kuwait to bail them out as they feared that coronavirus would spread further. “Our hopes were on lifting of lockdown in Kuwait from May 31 but it has now been extended by two more weeks and we do not know what is going to happen,” he lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sharing-bread-to-survive/article31719036.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||KTR coins new ‘abbreviation’ for CM-father||The three-letter abbreviation, KCR for Kalvakuntla Chandrasekhar Rao, is not new just to the people of Telangana but also all those who follow Indian politics. His popularity, in spite of having critics, which is common in public life, has grown in leaps and bounds as he successfully led the mass movement in support of statehood to Telangana since 2001 and it has multiplied across the country after formation of the new State as he took over the reins of the youngest State in the country in 2014. However, his son K. Tarakarama Rao, popularly know as KTR, who is also a Cabinet colleague of KCR, has coined a new abbreviation for his Chief Minister-father on Friday as Mr. KCR inaugurated a pump-house of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project to fill water in the Kondapochammasagar reservoir. Mr. KTR tweeted that KCR would now also stand for ‘ Kaalvalu (canals), Cheruvulu (tanks/lakes) and Reservoirlu (reservoirs)’ as Kaleshwaram project spread its presence in those forms in different parts of Telangana. Why not? A responsible son has every right to coin the new abbreviation as the people enjoying the benefits of the project have already recognised its three virtues – KCR , says a ruling party leader considered ‘close’ to the ‘power-full’ family!      Amidst the struggle of the government to save its people from COVID-19, the State is faced with a potentially new threat from a different enemy which could cripple its agriculture. As a precaution to protect farmers from locust swarm in case it headed towards Telangana, the government formed a five-member committee to conduct an aerial survey and determine the course of the swarm. The committee declared in Adilabad on Sunday that the swarm had changed its course and that farmers need not have any apprehensions about damage to their crop. It was coincidence that the swarm had emerged in a northern State at a crucial time when agricultural operations for a new season were set to begin shortly all over the country. In Telangana, the State government had much bigger plans to regulate agricultural activity with crop specific acreage.    When liquor shops reopened in the State after 45 days of shut down on May 6, there were long queues of people desperate for drink at the outlets. But, a look at the shops as one passed by presented a pathetic look now. There was not even a single buyer across the counters at most shops. The reason was not far to comprehend. People had run out of money to buy their favourite brands due to unemployment on account of lockdown. What little they had saved when the shops were shut was exhausted in the initial days of reopening of the trade. Also, the 16% or more increase in the price of bottles contributed to sales going down. The haves could afford the increase but the have nots felt the heat. B. Chandrashekhar & N. Rahul||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-coins-new-abbreviation-for-cm-father/article31719023.ece
01 June 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. to ramp up fever clinics||The Madhya Pradesh government plans to leverage the increased awareness of COVID-19 and the network of private practitioners to ramp up fever clinics across the State to detect symptoms early, augment sampling, streamline the referral system and bring down mortalities. As cases surge, and fan out over newer territories, around 1,000 fever clinics planned in both urban and rural areas will act as the first point of care for possible COVID-19 patients, facilitating early identification and treatment of influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory infections which may help stymie the coronavirus’s advance, say officials. The clinics provide an opportunity, says Mohammed Suleman, Health Additional Chief Secretary, to a suspect to directly approach a clinic even if certain areas are not monitored by health workers. “People now know reporting in time to hospitals can reduce the risk,” he said. Initial fatalities in the State can be ascribed to late presentation at hospitals, added Mr. Suleman, besides co-morbidities. “Active surveillance and early testing can help counter that. And fever clinics can aid this,” he said. The onus, with presumably increased awareness over months, rests on the community. Few fever clinics, already operational in hotspots Bhopal and Indore, were witnessing increased footfall in the past 10-15 days, Mr. Suleman said. At a clinic in Bhopal’s Bairagarh, Day 1 witnessed seven patients, which jumped to 36 the second day. Whereas, 166 patients approached a clinic in Banganga in Indore on the first day, and 336 on the second. The clinics are being set up in densely populated areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-to-ramp-up-fever-clinics/article31718940.ece
01 June 2020||Bhopal,||DGP’s response sought over M.P. killing||The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission has sought within three weeks a report from the Director General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Ashoknagar, on the reported killing of a tribal man and injury to four others by a group over a land dispute. The group even burned down their hut. The Commission’s Chairperson Narendra Kumar Jain on Saturday sent the notices to the officers over the incident which occurred on May 26 at the Kulua Chakk village of the district. The police had announced a reward of Rs. 60,000 on the main accused Girraj Yadav and others who were absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dgps-response-sought-over-mp-killing/article31718939.ece
01 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Millennium City reports 97 new cases, total number stands at 774||The number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram crossed the 700 mark on Sunday, with 97 new cases recorded. The total number of cases in Gurugram is now 774, the highest in the State. According to the State health bulletin, 168 new cases were recorded across the State on Sunday taking the tally to 2,091. The total number of active cases in the state is 1,023. Gurugram has 487 active cases, which is more than one-third of the total cases in the State, followed by Faridabad (191) and Sonepat (50). Similarly, Faridabad has the second highest number of COVID-19 cases with 367 followed by Sonepat (199). So far, Gurugram has recorded three deaths and 60 patients were discharged on Sunday. The Gurugram district administration has also issued a statement reassuring its residents that there was adequate medical preparedness and shortcomings noticed in hospitals and sample collection were streamlined. It further said there were enough medical facilities and the majority of the cases were asymptomatic that do not need special medical attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/millennium-city-reports-97-new-cases-total-number-stands-at-774/article31718927.ece
01 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Locust control: ‘govt. ignoring non-chemical measures’||Prof. Rajinder Chaudhary, Advisor, Kudarti Kheti Abhiyan, Haryana has expressed disappointment over the fact that despite the known side-effects of aerial spraying of pesticides, the government’s locust control policy was focussed only on chemical spray. He said they completly ignored non-chemical measures. In a letter to the agriculture Ministers and agriculture secretaries of the Centre and Haryana, Prof. Chaudhary said a number of effective non-chemical remedies were suggested by experts from India and abroad, including Chintala Venkata Reddy, an organic farmer from Telangana, who was awarded the Padma Shri this year, to control locusts without serious side-effects. Safe measures Providing a list of these safe and effective measures along with references and sources in the letter, Prof. Chaudhary has requested the government to control locusts only through biological and non-chemical measures rather than hazardous chemical measures. “If chemical methods cannot be junked all together, then at least in the areas near the population and close to catchment and storage areas of waterbodies, the government must adopt the safer non-chemical measures instead of adopting chemical measures,” said Prof. Chaudhary. He also referred to a press note recently issued by the Centre indicating steps to increase its capacity for aerial spray of poisonous pesticides for locust control. According to Prof. Chaudhary, there is no doubt that the locust attack was a menace that could be ignored, but it must also be ensured that locust control measures do not pollute air, water, environment and food chain. While the ill-effects of aerial spraying of dangerous pesticides were well-established, it is rather disheartening that in spite of the fact that the government honoured an organic farmer with the Padma Shri this year, his advice on safe control of locust was being totally ignored by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/locust-control-govt-ignoring-non-chemical-measures/article31718937.ece
01 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam confident of testing 10,000 samples a day||Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said that the State government has acquired the capacity to test 10,000 swab samples for COVID-19 per day. “We have surpassed many States in testing one lakh people so far. We are sure of ramping up the number to 2 lakh by June 15 as we are confident of our capability to conduct 10,000 tests a day,” he told newspersons on Sunday evening.  The government was aiming at saving public money by reducing the period of institutional quarantine to four days by June 10. More tests would enable the government to release those who test negative early, he added. “But nobody would be sent to home quarantine without his or her samples being tested for negative results,” Mr. Sarma said.  Three-layer system Claiming that the State has facilities to treat 4,232 patients at a time, the Health Minister said a three-layer system has been put in place. By 7 pm on Sunday, Assam recorded 1,272 COVID-19 positive cases with 1,080 of them active and 185 discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-confident-of-testing-10000-samples-a-day/article31718938.ece
01 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||City buses to ply in U.P. from today||Inter-district buses will ply in Uttar Pradesh and so will city buses but within laid down protocols from June 1, the State government said on Sunday, announcing a number of relaxations for the next phase of the lockdown. While the buses would have to follow the seating capacity protocol, passengers would not be allowed to stand during travel, Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said. Inter-district services The State RTC said it would resume “all kinds of inter-district” services. The citizens would also be able to enjoy other relaxations. Public parks would be allowed to open daily twice, from 5 a.m. to 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m., for jogging and physical activities. Marriage halls would also open but gatherings would be restricted to 30 persons. Carrying weapons to marriage halls (for celebratory firing) would be prohibited and invite legal action, said Awanish Awasthi, Addl. Chief Secretary, Home Department. Salons and beauty parlours would also be allowed to open shop but with conditions of social distancing and other precautionary measures. All government offices will open with 100% attendance but employees would function in three shifts, while industrial activities outside containment zones will also resume. No entry from hotspots However, the government said people would still be prohibited from entering Ghaziabad and Noida from containment zones and hotspots in Delhi. It said it was close to testing 10,000 per day. The target was to reach daily testing of 15,000 by June 15, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary, Health Department. The official also said the State had reached a milestone of 1 lakh COVID-19 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-buses-to-ply-in-up-from-today/article31718947.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. seeks Rs. 5,000-crore aid from Centre to pay salaries||Manish Deputy Chief Minister Sisodia on Sunday said that the Delhi government has sought an aid of Rs. 5,000 crore from the Centre to help pay salaries of Delhi government employees as it had suffered a loss in revenue due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sisodia said that after reviewing the Delhi government’s minimum expenses, it was found that the government needs around Rs. 3,500 crore every month to pay salaries to employees and to meet other office expenses. “The GST collections in the past two months have only been Rs. 500 crore and after combining it with other sources, we have managed to collect Rs. 1,735 crore. But we actually need at least Rs. 7,000 crore,” Mr. Sisodia said. In a digital briefing, Mr. Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio said that he has written a letter to the Union Finance Minister, seeking aid. “Other States have received financial assistance from the Disaster Relief fund, but the Delhi government has not received any such aid yet,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added Delhi does not receive any sort of aid from the Centre usually, but now the State’s revenue has been severely affected due to the induced lockdown. “It is about time we received some financial relief from the Centre to be able to pay salaries of our employees — teachers, doctors, engineers, civil defence personnel, etc. — involved in COVID-19 relief work,” he said. In his letter, Mr. Sisodia said that for the financial year 2020-21, the Delhi Legislative Assembly has passed the budget of Rs. 65,000 crore. Of this, Rs. 35,500 crore constitutes committed expenditure towards establishment, devolution to local bodies and interest and loan repayment liability to the Government of India. In the normal course, he wrote, Delhi was confident in managing its budgetary requirement but due to the lockdown, the State needed immediate help from the Centre.    One-time grant The one-time grant of Rs. 5,000 crore will thereby help Delhi tide over the immediate crisis. This will also facilitate the Delhi govt. in releasing the grants to the municipal corporations of Delhi who largely depend on the Delhi government to pay salary and other establishment,” Mr. Sisodia wrote.  The GST collections in the past two months have only been Rs. 500 crore and after combining it with other sources, we have managed to collect Rs. 1,735 crore. But we actually need at least Rs. 7,000 crore Manish Sisodia Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-seeks-rs-5000-crore-aid-from-centre-to-pay-salaries/article31718942.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||City sees biggest jump with 1,295 cases, COVID-19 tally touches 19,844||Cases of COVID-19 in the Capital continued to see a spike with 1,295 fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 19,844 on Sunday. This was the highest single-day jump in the number of cases coming, a day before the “unlock” measures are set to be rolled out on Monday. According to a heath bulletin from the Delhi government, there were 13 deaths in the past 24 hours. The total number of deaths was 473 with 57 deaths being added to the official toll on the basis of case sheets received from hospitals by the Death Audit Committee. The previous highest single-day spike was 1,163 recorded on May 30. The Delhi government said that 416 patients had recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,478. At present, there are 10,893 active cases in Delhi. A front-line sanitation worker of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who was admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital, who had tested positive for COVID-19 has died, a civic body spokesperson said on Sunday. Posted in Badarpur, the worker was admitted to Lady Hardinge Hospital after which he was shifted to Lok Nayak for dialysis and treatment but he did not survive, the SDMC said. The civic body had earlier announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh for front-line workers who succumbed to the disease. In another incident, a North Delhi Municipal Corporation school principal, who was associated with a hunger relief centre, has contracted the virus. The school where ration was being distributed has been sanitised and up to nine people who came in contact with her have been traced and directed to stay in quarantine. The bulletin said that memorandums have been issued to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, which have been asked to explain the reasons for delay in reporting deaths. Notices issued Show-cause notices have been issued to AIIMS, Lok Nayak Hospital, RML Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital seeking explanation for the delay in reporting deaths, which violates the directions issued by the Health Department and the DDMA under the Disaster Management Act. It added that an advisory has been issued to Lok Nayak Hospital, asking it to be careful and follow the orders/guidelines issued in true letter and spirit so that there is no anomaly in the figures being reported by the government. The health bulletin added that the Health Minister had conducted several review meetings to assess the situation and an order was issued regarding additional guidelines for better management of bodies of COVID-19 patients/suspects persons at the mortuaries of various hospitals under the Delhi government. The government has passed an order to declare GTB hospital as designated COVID-19 hospital with its full bed capacity of 1,500 in order to augment further the availability of beds in designated COVID-19 hospitals. The government has set up a five-member advisory committee to examine and suggest various steps of Homeopathy System of Medicine for immunity booster for COVID -19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-biggest-jump-with-1295-cases-covid-19-tally-touches-19844/article31718929.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Showers bring respite, but temperature likely to soar||Rain and wind turned the weather pleasant in the Capital with the maximum temperature settling six degrees below normal at 34.6 degrees Celsius and the minimum settling seven degrees below normal at 20 degrees Celsius. After overnight rain that was accompanied by gusty winds, the sun was out in the day but clouds gathered by evening, ushering in another spell of rain. The city recorded 9.2 mm rainfall overnight and 2.2 mm during the day till 5 p.m. Palam received more rain during the day at 10.2 mm. The cool spell had come after a heat wave that saw temperature soar to 46 degrees Celsius, the hottest the Capital has endured in 18 years. However, the mercury is going to shoot up again. The forecast for June 1 reads: “partly cloudy sky with possibility of very light rain. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 38 and 21 degrees Celsius respectively.” A Met official said that although temperatures are likely to rise by two-four degrees over the next few days, a heat wave is unlikely as there is a fresh western disturbance forming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/showers-bring-respite-but-temperature-likely-to-soar/article31718944.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||Solicitor General, 2 others made SPP/ special counsel in riots case||Three senior law officers — Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor Generals Maninder Acharya and Aman Lekhi — have been appointed Special Public Prosecutor/ Special Counsel in a case involving the arrest of a 25-year-old woman in relation to the Delhi riots. The submission was made by Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra before the High Court, which was seized of a habeas corpus petition filed by the brother of Gulfisha Fatima, an MBA student, who has been under continued detention since she was arrested on April 9. Mr. Mehra said Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain had made an endorsement approving the appointment of Special Public Prosecutor/ Special Counsel to represent Delhi Police in the current case. He stated that the above law officers/ special counsels would represent the Delhi government and police in the case since the approval of the Delhi government was specifically obtained. The Central government submitted that the approval of the Home Minister was obtained by Delhi Police so as to avoid any controversy. Submission was made in response to a query made by the High Court, on the date of the previous hearing, seeking clarity on who will represent the police and government in the case. The petition was filed by Aqil Hussain over the continued detention of his sister under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) when the Special Courts that could extend custody were not functioning due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Ms. Fatima, along with others, was initially arrested over an FIR lodged in Jaffrabad police station for allegedly instigating a crowd to block the road near Jaffrabad metro station on February 22 to protest against the CAA and NRC. Later, the stringent provisions under UAPA were invoked against her in a separate FIR, which is under investigation by the crime branch. Delhi Police had earlier opposed her bail application before the trial court saying that her conduct was “attributable to anti-national activity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/solicitor-general-2-others-made-spp-special-counsel-in-riots-case/article31718935.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two ASIs die of COVID-19||Two Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspectors died due to COVID-19, taking the overall casualty figure due to the virus in the force to three, said officials on Sunday. They said 52-year-old Vikram died at 11.30 a.m. on Sunday during treatment at the Army Base Hospital here while 54-year-old Shesh Mani Pandey passed away at the same facility on Saturday evening. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava tweeted: “Delhi Police family mourns the loss of 2 brave police officers in our fight against Corona pandemic despite best efforts to save them. We pay homage to ASIs Vikram and Shesh Mani Pandey and may their souls rest in peace. We are committed to providing all help to their families[sic].” The officials said Vikramwas posted in Sultanpuri police station. He got unwell on May 25 and went to the Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital where the doctor advised him one-week medical rest. Back at his residence in Kirari Suleman Nagar here, he started having difficulty in breathing next morning, said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO (Delhi Police). He is survived by his wife and three sons aged 24,19 and 15, he added. A few other policemen from Sultanpuri police station were also tested positive for the virus but most of them have recovered, another official said. On the other hand, Pandey worked with the Finger Print Bureau of the Crime Branch in Central Delhi. DCP (Central), Sanjay Bhatia, said the ASI was tested for the virus on May 26 at the Lady Hardinge Medical College after he complained of fever and cough. His result came positive on May 28, Mr . Bhatia said. Following his death, four officers from Crime Branch, who were said to be in “close contact” with him, have been sent for home quarantine. However, their test reports are awaited, the DCP said. Pandey is survived by his wife Madhuri and three children. Mr. Shrivastava on Sunday interacted with all SHOs through videoconferencing and briefed them in detail about the circulars and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on preventive steps against the virus. Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Singh Randhawa said nearly 500 police personnel have been tested positive for COVID-19 so far, out of which over 200 police personnel have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-asis-die-of-covid-19/article31718932.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||Saurabh- fire brief||A fire broke out at an Army canteen in Sadar Bazar area here on Sunday morning, Delhi Fire Service officials said. No casualty has been reported, they said. The fire department was informed around 9 a.m.The blaze was brought under control by 9.50 a.m..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/saurabh-fire-brief/article31718933.ece
01 June 2020||Noida,||9 new cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Nine more people, including five persons associated with a media house, tested positive for COVID-19 in U.P.’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Sunday, taking the total in the district to 414, officials said. Also, one patient was discharged, leaving 113 active cases, they said. The district has so far recorded seven deaths due to the deadly virus. Among the new patients are four men aged 22, 27, 28, 45 and a woman aged 28 — all of them relatives of a person who works at Zee Media office in Noida and had tested positive for COVID-19, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/9-new-cases-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31718930.ece
01 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Lockdown relaxation: curbs ease on shops, travel, banking in Gujarat||The Gujarat government has announced relaxations in lockdown with efffect from Monday and decided to allow shops and businesses located outside the COVID-19 containment zones to operate without any restriction of the odd-even formula. State transport buses will be allowed to operate with 60% passenger capacity, two-wheelers allowed to have a pillion rider, and four-wheelers with six or more seats can have three passengers along with the driver. Banks in both containment and non-containment zones will be opened and government offices allowed to operate with full capacity. A government resolution (GR) to this effect was issued late on Saturday night. Restrictions will however continue on single screen cinema halls, multiplexes, educational institutes, large public gathering, cultural events, swimming pools, zoos, public gardens, tourist places and beaches, it said. According to the GR, shops and businesses in non-containment zones will be open from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. “The government will allow all shops, except those located in containment zones or placed under negative list, to open between 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. in municipal areas and till 8 p.m. in areas outside the municipal limits. The odd even formula for shops located in shopping complexes and markets will be done away with in the fifth phase of the lockdown or Unlock-1 starting Monday,” according to the GR. Shops located in malls and restaurants will be allowed from June 8 in accordance with the standard operating procedures (SOPs). City buses have been allowed to operate in non-containment zones with passenger limit of 50% in Ahmedabad and Surat, and 60% in other cities, it said. The State government will also come up with a list of micro-containment areas, which will continue to remain under restrictions along with the containment zones, with only essential services allowed there between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Nobody living in these areas will be allowed to leave for work. Street vendors will be allowed to operate only in areas designated by the urban local bodies starting June 8, it said. All economic activities will be allowed in areas outside the containment/micro containment zones, and industries allowed to operate with 100% capacity with physical distancing, it said. Liquor shops have been allowed to open for permit holders. Curfew will be imposed across the State between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., the GR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lockdown-relaxation-curbs-ease-on-shops-travel-banking-in-gujarat/article31718956.ece
01 June 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Schools must reopen in June, says Thackeray||Schools in Maharashtra must start their academic year in June, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday in a videoconference with Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad and Education Department officials. Mr. Thackeray also directed that schools should open wherever possible with safety precautions and compliance with physical distancing norms, and at other places use of digital platforms could be explored. “The novel coronavirus pandemic shouldn’t be a roadblock in the education of children. The academic year has to be started from June. Maharashtra should set an example before the rest of the country. Methods such as online, offline, or pre-loaded tablet can be explored. These options can be used in remote areas with problems of connectivity,” said Mr. Thackeray at the meeting also attended by eminent individuals from the field of education. Mr Thackeray said that those schools which were used for institutional quarantine would be sanitised. Ms. Gaikwad said the academic year starts on June 15 in some parts of the State, and on June 26 in Vidarbha. “We are in the process of preparing a standard operating procedure by consulting experts, parents, and officials. We have also made preparations to start using online, television, and radio for education purposes. All schools will also receive textbooks by June 15,” the minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/schools-must-reopen-in-june-says-thackeray/article31718951.ece
01 June 2020||Mumbai,||From national capital to Maximum City, relief knows no borders||Gurpreet Kaur Wasi considers herself to be a “strong person who doesn’t normally get fazed”. But something within her gave way a few weeks back. A young boy in Delhi’s Kashmere Gate, down to skin and bones due to starvation, died in front of her. Ms. Wasi (52) was in the area distributing food. Her work through North East Delhi during the lockdown and earlier, when riots tore through the area, inured her to many things except hunger. “Earlier, I used to tell people that urban hunger is a myth, that nobody in Mumbai or Delhi goes without food,” she said. There’s always a temple or gurudwara that feeds people, or at the very least, a vada pav that is within reach, she believed. “But today, I’ve seen a starvation death. I’ve seen how critical food is.” Getting people together The situation is “equally difficult” in Mumbai, said Ms. Wasi. Through connects on social media, she has extended her field of operation to Maximum City and has so far supported over 1,000 families through a network of volunteers from Dharavi to Juhu Gully and even Kalwa. She has also started to help with transporting migrant labourers. Ms. Wasi, a digital entrepreneur who helps grow small businesses, was no stranger to volunteer work, having worked with Khalsa Aid International and the Super Sikh Foundation. When the Delhi riots broke out in February, she decided she couldn’t just be a mute spectator and contacted the deputy police commissioner of North East Delhi, the hub of the violence. “I decided to see what I could do by myself. The area was all sealed under curfew, and I got permission for helping with rations,” she said. Eventually, Khalsa Aid got involved in relief work, paving the way for other organisations to get there. Just as she decided to pull out of there, the novel coronavirus lockdown was announced. Ms. Wasi continued her relief work in the area, collecting money from family and friends. For a while, she worked alone, before she put out a call on Facebook for volunteers. Gradually, she started receiving support from all over. The Mumbai connect Through these connections, a Mumbai support group came into existence — filmmakers, an entrepreneur, and an online trainer joined hands through WhatsApp to form the Mumbai COVID relief group, which grew over days and weeks. Fatima Humra Jilani from Versova is one such volunteer. The 43-year-old curriculum head with an online computer training startup was, like Ms. Wasi, a lone warrior when she began, motivated by the urge to just go out there and “do something”. Ms. Jilani began by putting out a call for volunteers on her society’s WhatsApp group. From serving cooked meals to those affected by the lockdown, she has now switched to distributing groceries. When Ms. Jilani started, she had no idea whom to approach for help locally. “I needed someone to talk to, and to get some direction. Gurpreet gave me that, and connected me to people. This increased my confidence,” she said. K.K. Mookhey, who runs a cyber security company in Mumbai, was also introduced to Ms. Wasi’s work during the Delhi riots. He is now actively involved in COVID-19 relief work through Ms. Wasi’s WhatsApp group, besides several others. “I’m on at least 20 groups in Mumbai,” he said. Like him, Navneet Ranjan, a filmmaker and social entrepreneur who runs the Dharavi Diary project that works with children from the area, too began COVID-19 relief with Ms. Wasi’s group, but is now on his own. “Gurpreet helped a lot, but the bandwidth for the group eventually became large. I’m now thinking of starting a crowdsourcing campaign for Dharavi,” Mr. Ranjan said. Among them all, Ms. Jilani is someone who Ms. Wasi was still hands-on with, helping her raise funds, connecting her to people, or just motivating her. The two connected often. Despite never having met her, Ms. Jilani said she felt a sense of comfort working with Ms. Wasi. “She joins dots for me, and ties things up quickly. There is never a need to go through a process to reach her.”    Family support Despite coordinating relief efforts in Mumbai and Delhi, Ms. Wasi said she was “not left with a choice.” Ms. Wasi credits her family for being a source of support. “I get at least five calls every morning. I have kids, but don’t even know what’s going on at home,” she said. The learnings along the way have been huge too. Duplication of effort or people working in silos, Ms. Wasi said, is common. “In Delhi, everybody knows everybody. The NGO and civil society or social work scene is not as organised in Mumbai. It’s taken us long to find out who’s doing what here,” she said. Also, there is often a need to verify the genuineness of those who seek help. Over time, Ms. Wasi learnt to “trust everything that comes in,” with checks and balances in place. “You also get to know from telephonic conversations, you use your gut to figure it out,” she said. Perhaps the most sobering learning for her has been to look beyond her ‘privilege’. “People in vulnerable areas couldn’t care about the novel coronavirus. The first time that struck me was when I went to a slum, thinking people would come to me asking for help. They didn’t want to come near me. They know the disease comes ‘from people like us who drive cars’, and it’s no fault of theirs,” she said. Sometimes, people have said, “We have to die either way. It’s better to die in hospital than from hunger.”  Earlier, I used to tell people that urban hunger is a myth ... But today, I’ve seen a starvation death. I’ve seen how critical food is Gurpreet Kaur Wasi Digital entrepreneur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/from-national-capital-to-maximum-city-relief-knows-no-borders/article31718949.ece
01 June 2020||Mumbai,||Namaste Trump caused spread of COVID-19: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday alleged that the Namaste Trump event in Ahmedabad to welcome U.S. President Donald Trump in February was responsible for the spread of novel coronavirus in Gujarat, and later in Mumbai and Delhi, which some of his delegates visited. Mr. Raut also hit out at the Centre saying the lockdown was implemented without planning, but now the responsibility of lifting curbs was left to the States. “It can’t be denied that the spread of novel coronavirus in Gujarat was because of the massive public gathering held to welcome U.S. President Donald Trump. Some of the delegates, who accompanied Trump, also visited Mumbai, Delhi, which led to the spread of the virus,” Mr. Raut said in his weekly column in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana .  Mr. Raut also said that any move to pull down the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA overnment and impose President’s Rule in the State, would be suicidal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/namaste-trump-caused-spread-of-covid-19-raut/article31718957.ece
01 June 2020||Panaji,||From today, Goa to get more trains, flights||Trains and flights are expected to arrive in Goa in large numbers from Monday as the fifth phase of the lockdown brings with it a greater rollback of restrictions, officials said. Three trains originating from Delhi and Mumbai will halt at Madgaon station, and so would Mangala Express (New Delhi to Ernakulum), Netravati Express (LTT-Mumbai to Thiruvananthapuram) and Duronto Express (Nizamuddin to Ernakulum), Konkan Railway public relations officer Baban Ghatge said. The State has set up facilities to test passengers, he added. The New Delhi-Vasco Goa Express will also start its regular trips from Monday. As per standard operating procedure, anyone arriving in Goa will have to either carry a COVID-19 negative certificate from an ICMR-certified lab or get himself tested for the infection here. A repatriation flight will arrive from Dubai on Monday, bringing home those stuck in the Middle East. Besides, two Srilankan Airlines flights carrying 200 Indians working on different ships abroad are scheduled to land at Goa airport on Monday, Dixon Vaz, founder president of Goa Seamen Association of India, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/from-today-goa-to-get-more-trains-flights/article31718954.ece
01 June 2020||Pune,||Real estate body looks to fill void created by migrant exodus||The Pune chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has announced a drive to train and hire youth across the State in Pune’s real estate and construction sector, in an attempt to fill the vacuum caused by the return of migrant labourers to their hometowns. The initiative from CREDAI-Pune Metro, called ‘Kushalta’, aims to train around 50,000 youth across villages and towns to transform them into a skilled workforce for the State, as well as Pune district’s burgeoning real estate sector. The pilot project will involve training around 1,000 youngsters. Suhas Merchant, President, CREDAI-Pune Metro, said at least 200 big projects have been held back owing to the exodus. “We estimate that around 70% of the migrant labour population in the State has gone back to their hometowns during the COVID-19-induced lockdown,” said Mr Merchant. “There is a massive labour shortage plaguing the construction sector in the district and the State, and there is tremendous uncertainty on when these migrant labourers will return.” ‘Kushalta’, which is to be implemented through the ‘Kushal CREDAI’ wing of the confederation, will also provide local youth an employment opportunity, said Mr. Merchant. “We plan to train 50,000 youth from the State’s rural hinterland and towns and transform them into a skilled and semi-skilled workforce in the construction segment,” he said. The confederation will soon issue advertisements in this regard, besides working closely with the local administration across the State to source the youth. Realtor J.P. Shroff, who heads the Kushal CREDAI wing said their past experience of training over 35,000 construction workers in making them more efficient and productive, would be the key driver of this initiative. Separate training modules would be developed to help trainees adapt to the work climate in the construction sector, he said. The free training programmes and workshops will be conducted in Pune once the lockdown is lifted. The contractors will provide for their food and lodging. Aditya Javdekar, Secretary, CREDAI Pune Metro, said CREDAI will act as a facilitator in the process of training and placement. “The relevant details for the enrolment to these programmes will be announced soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/real-estate-body-looks-to-fill-void-created-by-migrant-exodus/article31718953.ece
01 June 2020||Brasilia,||Coronavirus numbers cross six million||The number of COVID-19 cases worldwide topped six million Sunday as Brazil registered another record surge in daily infections and divisions deepened on how to deal with the pandemic. Latin American countries are bracing for difficult weeks ahead as the virus spreads rapidly across the region. This contrasts to other parts of the world where the pace has eased and permitted a cautious exit from lockdowns that have wrecked economies and stripped millions of their jobs. The new epicentre In Brazil — the epicentre of South America’s outbreak with nearly 5,00,000 confirmed cases — disagreement among its leaders over lockdown measures has hampered efforts to slow a virus that has cost nearly 30,000 lives. President Jair Bolsonaro, who fears the economic fallout from stay-at-home orders will be worse than the virus, has berated Governors and Mayors for imposing what he calls “the tyranny of total quarantine.” Even as his country surpassed France to have the world’s fourth-highest death toll, Mr. Bolsonaro called for Brazil’s football season to resume. The pandemic has killed nearly 3,70,000 people and infected more than six million worldwide, according to an AFP tally. As the virus progresses at different speeds around the globe, there has been pressure to lift crippling lockdowns, despite the lack of a vaccine and experts warning of a possible second wave of infections. South Africa will reopen its economy on Monday, the continent’s hardest-hit country moving to level three of a five-tier lockdown. Some good news turned sour in China, where the first flight carrying Europeans arrived on Saturday since the country suspended visas in late March. Just a day later, Chinese authorities said a German engineer on the flight had tested positive for coronavirus as an asymptomatic carrier. With infection numbers falling in many of Europe’s most affected countries, restrictions are being steadily eased. Parks open in Paris Parks opened in Paris on the weekend for the first time in months, ahead of restaurants, cafes and bars reopening on sidewalks and terraces on Tuesday. “Paris needs to support its restaurants and bars. They are the heart of our city,” Mayor Anne Hidalgo said, as some restaurants jumped the gun by opening early, with police largely turning a blind eye. Across the Atlantic, the U.S. capital Washington also resumed outdoor dining, while on the West Coast, restaurants and hair salons in Los Angeles reopened. New York City, the worst-hit American city with about 21,500 coronavirus deaths, is on track to begin reopening the week of June 8. The overall U.S. death toll has topped 1,03,000 out of more than 1.7 million cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/coronavirus-numbers-cross-six-million/article31718647.ece
01 June 2020||Surabaya,||100-year-old Indonesian woman beats COVID-19||A 100-year-old Indonesian woman has recovered from COVID-19, making her the country’s oldest survivor of the deadly respiratory illness. Kamtim, who like many Indonesians goes by one name, was discharged from hospital this week after a month of treatment in her hometown Surabaya, Indonesia’s second-biggest city, officials said. An inspiration East Java Governor Khofifah Indar Parawansa said she hoped Ms. Kamtim’s story would give a boost to at-risk residents — the illness is especially dangerous for older people and those with chronic conditions. “I hope her recovery can motivate elderly people during the pandemic,” Ms. Parawansa added. Born in 1920, Ms. Kamtim was taken to hospital last month after showing symptoms and she was later confirmed to have contracted the virus. Siti Aminah, the woman’s daughter-in-law, chalked up her recovery to “discipline and persistence”. “Every day I checked her condition with nurses and they always told me that she was very strong and diligent about taking her medicine,” Ms. Aminah said. “She was very motivated to get better.” It was not clear how the home-bound woman contracted the virus. “She probably got it when people from the neighbourhood came around to visit since she never goes outside,” said Ms. Aminah. Low testing rate Indonesia has confirmed more than 26,000 cases of COVID-19 and 1,613 deaths. But the sprawling Southeast Asian archipelago of more than 260 million has among the lowest testing rates in the world. Researchers estimate the true number of virus infections and fatalities is several times the official toll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/100-year-old-indonesian-woman-beats-covid-19/article31718641.ece
01 June 2020||Tehran,||Talks with U.S. futile, says new Iran Speaker||Iran’s new Parliament Speaker said on Sunday that any negotiations with Washington would be “futile” as he denounced the death of a black American that has led to violent protests across the U.S. Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, a former commander of the Revolutionary Guards’ air force, was elected Speaker on Thursday of a chamber dominated by ultra-conservatives following February elections. The newly formed Parliament “considers negotiations with and appeasement of America, as the axis of global arrogance, to be futile and harmful,” he said in his first major speech to the chamber. Mr. Ghalibaf also vowed revenge for the U.S. drone attack in January that killed Qasem Soleimani. “Our strategy in confronting the terrorist America is to finish the revenge for martyr Soleimani’s blood,” he told lawmakers, pledging “the total expulsion of America’s terrorist army from the region”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/talks-with-us-futile-says-new-iran-speaker/article31718643.ece
01 June 2020||Madrid,||Madrid, May 31, 2020 (AFP) -||Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said Sunday he will seek Parliament’s approval to extend Spain’s state of emergency one final time, which would keep the COVID-19 lockdown in place until June 21. The current emergency is set to expire on June 7, and the Premier said that one last two-week extension was required.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/madrid-may-31-2020-afp/article31718644.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The waning of subaltern solidarity for Hindutva||As the plight and precarity of migrant workers take centrestage, a pertinent question is about its political bearings. The fact that an overwhelming majority of those precariat are subalterns or Dalit-Bahujans, who, since 2014, shifted to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Hindutva in a big way, merits the question whether they would rethink their saffron link and return to the fold of non-BJP parties. Understanding this puzzle requires a brief engagement with the structure of subalterneity and its dynamic interplay with the Hindutva and Muslim question in India.  Contrasting claims There are two contrasting claims of subalterneity — one oppositional to Hindutva and the other conciliatory towards it. There is a deep fraternity towards Muslims in the oppositional view as they are believed to be low caste Hindus who converted to Islam to escape from Brahmanical Hinduism. Pasmanda politics of the Muslim community is a reciprocal response to this claim of oppositional subalterneity. On the other hand, the conciliatory subalterneity which is friendly to Hindutva, heralds a phenomenon which I term as subaltern Hindutva, which at present is the dominant political discourse in the western, central and northern States of India, and of late has made a remarkable entry in the east, particularly in Bengal by winning over a majority of Dalits and tribes. It takes a constructivist approach of myth building and argues that Muslim rule and a secular discourse of minority appeasement is responsible for their precariat position. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-endorsed three volume book by BJP Dalit leader Bizay Sonkar Shastri claiming Dalits to be upper castes before the advent of Islam in India is a case in point. Back to 2014 To decipher the expected political behaviour of the subalterns in the wake of the current crisis engulfing reverse migration-bound workers, one needs to go back to 2014 to deconstruct the phenomenon of the mainstreaming of subaltern Hindutva which overwhelmed the democratic discourse of India except in the southern and northeastern States. It led to most non-dominant Other Backward Classes (OBC) and Dalits abandoning social justice-centric parties and rallying behind the BJP. Three factors explain this shifting alliance of the subalterns in 2014. One, with the deepening identitarian turn in the democratic discourse since the mid-1980s, the numerically weaker subaltern castes, particularly in the western, central and Hindi heartland States, were aspiring to carve a niche for themselves within the discourse of subalterneity. Since, the oppositional subalterneity was vanguarded by dominant OBC and Dalit caste leaders, the weaker subaltern caste members felt relatively deprived. Two, the BJP witnessed an electoral decline at the national level in the 2000s until 2014. However, in its six year stint during National Democratic Alliance-I, the party had effectively quelled its image as being anti-Mandal and anti-reservation. Three, by late 2013, when the Modi phenomenon appeared on the political horizon with a package of subalterneity, Hindutva and development, the target was two-fold: the secular and the oppositional subalterneity. Since both had an indispensable Muslim constituency, they became clubbed as one, their ideological incommensurability notwithstanding. The majority of non-dominant OBCs and Dalits nurturing a sense of relative deprivation eagerly embraced both the BJP and Hindutva. It was an active political choice by majority of the subalterns against the secular. It is in this context that since 2014 we have witnessed the emergence of a new dialectic — of ‘the secular vs the subaltern’. A discourse of solidarity What is at stake for the BJP and Hindutva in the wake of the ongoing migrant crisis? In other words, if subalterns came to the fold of the BJP by willing to bypass secular parties for order, certainty and opportunity packaged as Hindutva’s model of social justice, would the turmoil in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic change it? The answer lies in the discourse of solidarity that lies behind the spectacular success story of Hindutva’s subaltern outreach. Subaltern Hindutva is premised on the claims of cultural and political solidarity among Hindus across the spectrum. Thus, it is the perpetual need and demonstration of solidarity across the Hindu spectrum that is indispensable for the hegemony of subaltern Hindutva. It must be remembered that unlike Savarkarite Hindutva which signified ideological dogmatism of upper caste Hindus, subaltern Hindutva weighs more on the instrumental side. The latter is an outcome of an active political bargain between the subalterns and traditional proponents of Hindutva. Subalterns carry a thick deal of political legitimacy and hence they are needed. Hindutva has the accommodating space which subalterns need to satiate their democratic desire for political representation. The leadership profile of the BJP as a party from the top to the rank and file, has an impressive presence of the subalterns. Other parties have had to give a substantial share of these spaces to Muslims; in the BJP’s case, it shares them with subalterns and other caste Hindus, thereby placing the party in an advantageous position to offer the best deal. Hitherto, the Prime Minister’s personal charisma, his claim to conciliatory subalterneity and the corresponding trust factor have created a sense of solidarity between him and the majority of subalterns. Therefore, much of the political attack on him became a collective attack on the subalterns. Criticism of his government and its policies from the vantage point of secularism versus communalism metamorphoses into one of secularism versus subalterneity. Impact on States, Opposition This throws a semantic challenge for the non-BJP parties endeavouring to employ the language of political economy to privilege material politics over the cultural one. In the past, the cultural solidarity of subalterns with Hindutva, particularly in the Hindi heartland, the prime suppliers of inter-State migrant workers depending upon cash and labour intensive informal sector, sustained the shock therapy of demonetisation. However, equations seem to be changing now. Media reports and feedback from the ground in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, where migrant workers have returned show that the political mood is layered. Unambiguously, they are not happy with the Prime Minister and the way in which they were treated. Hence, there is a clear sign of a waning of the sense of solidarity which they had for him in the past. There is a feeling of being abandoned by the state. Nevertheless, there is an interesting twist here. While they are not happy with the Prime Minister, they are more angry with the State governments and their leaders. Hence, in Bihar it is Nitish Kumar and in West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. A section of subaltern section in Bengal apparently believes that Ms. Banerjee on a few occasions relaxed lockdown norms for the benefit of the Muslim community. This means, the waning of subaltern solidarity to Hindutva and the Prime Minister does not translate into a significant change of political action as there are no alternative solidarities. In fact, given that there is a greater degree of anger against the regional parties in the western and northern States along with West Bengal, it is plausible that the BJP may not suffer much therein. Economic precarity and material politics do not succeed in the absence of a powerful anchor. In the past, the Opposition was able to defeat the cultural politics of the BJP on a material plank in States such as Delhi, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh as it had State-level anchors who acted as a bridge between material crisis and its electoral translation. However, the same may not be true about the national scenario as the Prime Minister combines both, persuasion and policy. It is persuasion that holds the ground perpetually leaving policy weaknesses on the high road to nowhere. On the other hand, the prime Opposition party, the Congress, seems to be a party lacking both an effective anchor and programmatic action. True, the ongoing crisis is fertile ground for political change, but the will to execute it is missing. The crisis and political action do not seem to interact. They exist in parallel. Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst and is associated with Peoples Pulse, a Hyderabad-based research institution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-waning-of-subaltern-solidarity-for-hindutva/article31718628.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The dimming of a Chinese strongman’s aura||To the outside world, China seeks to project a picture of monolithic unity behind President Xi Jinping’s highly centralised leadership. However, media tropes point to a greater scrutiny of his role and leadership style, especially during the early stages of the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan. Reports have surfaced alleging delays in reporting facts, conflicting instructions and tight censorship. Observers have drawn parallels between Mr. Xi and his powerful predecessors, Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, perhaps a tad unfairly to both the iconic architects of the People’s Republic of China (PRC). A timeline of change Mao presided over the founding of the PRC in 1949. He consolidated his leadership during the Long March in the mid-1930s. Despite his many detractors, he remained the undisputed leader of China until his death on September 9, 1976 even if, towards the end, it was the Gang of Four, led by his wife Jiang Qing, which had usurped power in his name. Mao banished his adversaries frequently, whether it was Liu Shaoqi, Lin Biao, or even Deng Xiaoping. Mao’s reign after the founding of the PRC lasted 27 years. By comparison, the 67-year-old Xi Jinping has been at the helm for just under eight years. Deng Xiaoping, the paramount leader who never held the posts of either Head of State or Head of Government, changed China’s economic destiny with bold and far-sighted policy shifts, ushering in the Four Modernisations of agriculture, industry, defence, and science and technology. The open-door policy, beginning the late 1970s, enabled China to emerge as the world’s largest recipient of foreign direct investment and a trade behemoth. Deng generally favoured a collegial form of decision-making in consultation with a clutch of senior leaders – the Party’s “Eight Elders”. Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang, both successive General Secretaries of the CPC, were for long Deng’s “left and right hands”, but when they were perceived as deviating from the CPC’s line, they were packed off ignominiously by the party elders led by Deng. From 1990 until his death in 1997, Deng’s only title was that of the Honorary Chairman of the Bridge Association of China. Yet, he remained the unquestioned leader, wielding great power even in his dotage, long after his successor Jiang Zemin had assumed the top posts. Spotlight on Xi The history of the CPC suggests that Mr. Xi wields less power than either Mao Zedong or Deng Xiaoping. He perhaps evokes more fear than respect on account of his ruthless anti-graft campaign that has brought down even high-ranking People’s Liberation Army (PLA) generals and Politburo members. In the consensus-driven system of the CPC developed after the Cultural Revolution, it was not uncommon to target the gofers of rivals, but top Party and PLA leaders were generally considered inviolable to avoid retribution when fortunes changed. In contrast, Mr. Xi has put behind bars “tigers” such as PLA Generals Xu Caihou and Guo Boxiong, political heavyweights such as Bo Xilai, Zhou Yongkang and Sun Zhengcai, besides thousands of “flies” — venal lower-ranking cadres. The question is not whether but when disgruntled forces might challenge Mr. Xi’s leadership. Since reining in the pandemic in China, the Chinese economy has had a head start, but it is clearly not out of the woods. Economic hardship could spark off public dissent and harsher security measures. Moreover, a military confrontation with the United States leading to a “loss of face”, however limited the engagement, is a risk that Mr. Xi can ill afford. Indignation could lead the Chinese people, nurtured on hubris, to quickly direct their ire against a leader who has abandoned Deng Xiaoping’s advice, so well captured in the abbreviated aphorism, “hide our capacities and bide our time”. Having steered through a constitutional revision in early 2018 that permits him to stay on in power beyond two terms, no doubt Mr. Xi would wish to preside over not just the centenary celebrations of the CPC in 2021 but also the hundredth anniversary of the founding of the PLA in 2027. Trouble areas The run-up to the PLA’s centenary harbours potential for instability and conflict, especially in relation to China’s avowed goal of reunification with Taiwan. Any use of force by China could drag the U.S., and perhaps its allies too, into the maelstrom, a view supported by the recent passage of the Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act by the U.S. which seeks to inter alia strengthen Taiwan’s de facto independence. Contrary to tradition, Mr. Xi has no anointed successor. When he assumes the mantle again beyond the 20th CPC Congress in 2022, he will thwart the ambitions of an entire “sixth generation” leadership. The only leader after Deng to have an extended stint was Jiang Zemin who was General Secretary from 1989-2002, President from 1993-2003 and Chairman of the CPC’s Central Military Commission (CMC) from 1989-2004. Jiang had clung on to the CMC post well after the baton had been passed to Hu Jintao as General Secretary of the CPC and President of the PRC. He survived after loosening his grip on power perhaps because he did not ride roughshod over other influential power centres. By comparison, Mr. Xi is “riding a tiger”. A recently leaked internal report of the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations (CICIR), a think-tank affiliated to the Ministry of State Security in Beijing, purportedly warns China’s top leadership of a rising tide of anti-China sentiment in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the worst since the Tiananmen incident of June 1989. The leak may point to internal churnings or it could well be meant to convey that China remains undaunted. The analogy is also reminiscent of China’s short-lived isolation after Tiananmen. The hope, that an economically rich and prosperous China would gradually become liberal and democratic, has been belied. Whether the current U.S. pressure on China for its controversial policies towards Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong, and Taiwan will induce change remains to be seen. For now, the face-off continues and demands for accountability for the outbreak are mounting, testing Mr. Xi’s leadership. The alienation by China of a sizeable section of the international community and public criticism of Mr. Xi, including in the Chinese social media, suggest that the sun may have reached its zenith. Sujan R. Chinoy, a China specialist and former Ambassador, is currently the Director General of the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-dimming-of-a-chinese-strongmans-aura/article31718631.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A phantom called the Line of Actual Control||At the heart of India’s and China’s continued inability to make meaningful progress on the boundary issue are four agreements — signed in September 1993, November 1996, April 2005 and October 2013 — between the two countries. Ironically, India and China keep referring to these agreements as the bedrock of the vision of progress on the boundary question. Unfortunately, these are deeply flawed agreements and make the quest for settlement of the boundary question at best a strategic illusion and at worst a cynical diplomatic parlour trick. Here’s how. According to the 1993 agreement (on the maintenance of peace and tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China border areas), “pending an ultimate solution”, “the two sides shall strictly respect and observe the LAC between the two sides... No activities of either side shall overstep the LAC.” Further, both the 1993 and the 1996 agreement (on confidence-building measures in the military field along the LAC) say they “will reduce or limit their respective military forces within mutually agreed geographical zones along the LAC.” This was to apply to major categories of armaments and cover various other aspects as well, including air intrusions “within ten kilometres along the LAC”. No bearing on ground reality The specification of this phantom LAC as the starting point and the central focus has made several key stipulations and articles of the four agreements effectively inoperable for more than a quarter of a century. In fact, many of the articles have no bearing on the ground reality. Article XII of the 1996 agreement, for instance, says, “This agreement is subject to ratification and shall enter into force on the date of exchange of instruments of ratification.” It is not clear if and when that happened. Astonishingly, nowhere in the 1993 agreement is there the provision to recognise the existing lines of deployment of the respective armies, as they were in 1993. The agreement does not reflect any attempt to have each side recognise the other’s line of deployment of troops at the time it was signed. That would have been the logical starting point. If both armies are to respect the LAC, where is the line? The ambiguity over the LAC has brought a prolonged sense of unease and uncertainty and thus exponentially contributed to the military build-up in those areas. The absence of a definition of this line allows ever new and surreptitious advances on the ground. Had the wordsmiths of the 1993 agreement begun the exercise with the phrase “pending an ultimate solution, each side shall strictly respect and observe the line of existing control/deployment” instead of the “LAC”, it would have been more possible to keep the peace. In such a case there would have been two existing lines of control on the map — one for the physical deployment of the Chinese troops and the other for the physical deployment of the Indian troops. This would have rendered the areas between the two lines no man’s land, and would have ensured that the two armies were frozen in their positions. In effect, in the eastern sector, where the Chinese have not accepted the loosely defined McMahon line which follows the principle of watershed, and the western sector, which is witnessing another episodic stand-off, the LAC is two hypothetical lines. The first is what Indian troops consider the extent to which they can dominate through patrols, which is well beyond the point where they are actually deployed and present. The second is what the Chinese think they effectively control, which is well south of the line they were positioned at in 1993. Now consider para 4 in Article II of the 2013 agreement (on border defence cooperation). It enjoins the parties to “work with the other side in combating natural disasters or infectious diseases (emphasis mine) that may affect or spread to the other side”. Given this serious intent, how do we read the latest round of fisticuffs and intense physical scrimmage between Chinese and Indian soldiers that left at least 70 Indian soldiers injured and hospitalised in Ladakh? It could have exposed some of the Indian soldiers to a local Chinese mutation of COVID-19. Forget physical distancing, were they even wearing masks? Perceptions of LAC It is in this theatre of the militarily absurd that we should look at the outcome of the attempted exchange of maps in the western sector where this round of confrontation continues between India and China. This came after the exchange of maps in the middle sector where divergences were the least, i.e., the existing line and the Chinese and Indian idea of the LAC were more or less the same (in 2002). Kanwal Sibal, who was the Foreign Secretary then, and Wang Yi, the head of the Chinese delegation, met in New Delhi in 2003 for this purpose. It had been agreed that both sides would exchange maps to an agreed scale on each side’s perceptions of the location of the LAC in the western sector. The idea was to superimpose the maps to see where the perceptions converged and, crucially, where they diverged. Due to the contentious nature of the sector, it would provide a starting point, not the end point, to discuss how to reconcile divergences presumed to be significant, given Chinese military behaviour on the ground there. Each side handed over its map to the other. Mr. Wang took the map, gave it a long, hard look, and wordlessly returned it. He provided no reason for his action. The meeting effectively ended there. Had he been instructed not to accept any map the Indian side provided? Or did he make a spur-of-the-moment decision that this exchange was not in China’s interests? In hindsight, it is obvious that Mr. Wang didn’t think the map was in Chinese interests, because if he had, the Chinese would have with them, officially, New Delhi’s claim with regard to the LAC in the western sector where they wanted the most territory. That meant that their hands would have been tied because New Delhi could subsequently say that the Chinese were intruding into India’s LAC. By disregarding the map, China is not bound in any way by New Delhi’s perception of the LAC, and therefore does not have to limit liberty of action. This was evident then and is especially evident now. Because the nature of the terrain, deployment, and infrastructure and connectivity asymmetries in the border areas continue to be so starkly in China’s favour that it is clear that the Chinese are in no hurry to settle the boundary question. They see that the cost to India in keeping this question open suits them more than settling the issue. sudarshan.v@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-phantom-called-the-line-of-actual-control/article31718638.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A week in which a reporter and the Solicitor General failed||A report, “Death in Goa: woman alleges that daughter was murdered” (May 26), failed to adhere to journalistic standards in reporting about people with different sexual orientations. For nearly a decade, various journalistic organisations have been striving to create a culture where there is fair, accurate and inclusive reporting of the life stories and concerns of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) people. The focus of the guidelines on reporting the LGBTQ community is to create journalistic standards to not only treat LGBTQ people with fairness, integrity and respect, but also ensure that they are not stigmatised and victimised by society. Raising fundamental questions Dr. Joy Muthipeedika, a neurologist from Kochi, was disappointed with the report as it quoted only one source despite the controversial circumstances that led the death of the activist. He wrote: “It is a clear affront to the LGBTQ community which has been battling stigma and the violence of conversion therapy since long. By publishing the misrepresentation of the post-mortem report from the side of the oppressors and simultaneously suppressing the voice of the deceased, your reporter has contributed to the further demonisation of the LGBTQ community in India. Let me remind you that India no longer criminalises the community. It is unfortunate that your newspaper with its long history of defending democracy has, however inadvertently, supported narrow, vicious, and violent social reaction.” Academic J. Devika of the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram, was equally appalled at the way in which the staff reporter reported the death of the young woman. She listed out some key information, all in the public domain, that the reporter failed to see: one, the young girl was identified with the LGBTQ community; two, she left home following conversion therapy; three, it left her, a budding wrestler, a physical wreck; and four, the post-mortem confirmed suicide. Ms. Devika wondered what prompted the staff reporter to merely restate the version of the young woman’s family, whom she unambiguously referred to as her “oppressors”. There were similar letters raising fundamental ethical questions. The readers are right and the reporter is wrong. The solution to this quagmire does not lie in removing the story — even with a disclaimer — as that would amount to tampering with the archives. What is required is an exhaustive follow-up report that respects the dignity of the LGBTQ community, and more vigilant gate-keeping by the desk. Bearing witness Meanwhile, the Solicitor General of India added three more terms to the growing list of derogatory epithets to describe professionals committed to informing the citizenry. On May 28, during the Supreme Court hearing of the suo motu case regarding the plight of migrant labourers, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta referred to journalists as “vultures”, “prophets of doom”, and “armchair intellectuals”. Apart from making these stunning observations, he also gave a terribly skewed picture of the celebrated photojournalist, Kevin Carter. Carter documented Apartheid excesses in South Africa and the famine in different parts of the continent, among other things. Instead of looking at credible sources of information to understand Carter’s contributions to journalism, his moral and ethical dilemmas, and his trauma of covering tragedy after tragedy in Africa, Mr. Mehta chose to borrow from a WhatsApp forward about the photojournalist. My column, “Lens of truth, lens of empathy” (April 4, 2016), dealt with the tragic life of the South African photographer. Fact-checking organisations such as AltNews exposed how the Solicitor General cited a false WhatsApp forward as a fact in the apex court. Mr. Mehta should know that journalism has three inalienable components: bearing witness, empathy or humanity, and holding power to account. Photojournalism is one of the finest tools to bear witness because it brings home the cruel nature of our reality, shakes a society out of its deep slumber, and forces those in power to act and redeem themselves. In fact, the suo motu case regarding the plight of India’s migrant workers would not have happened if photojournalists were not witness to their long and painful journey. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-week-in-which-a-reporter-and-the-solicitor-general-failed/article31718634.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s time for a universal basic income programme in India||The ongoing crisis is creating changes that could end up dividing society into pre- and post-COVID-19 days. These changes are also likely to exacerbate the novel challenges accompanying the fourth industrial revolution. Today, disruptive technologies like artificial intelligence are ushering in productivity gains that we have never seen before. They are also steadily reducing human capital requirements, making jobs a premium. A microcosm of these trends can be seen in Silicon Valley. The region is home to five of the world’s eight most valuable companies. These giants, all technology companies, have a cumulative market cap of over $4 trillion, yet they together directly employ just 1.2 million people. Tool to eradicate poverty Many consider a universal basic income (UBI) programme to be a solution that could mitigate the looming crisis caused by dwindling job opportunities. UBI is also deliberated as an effective poverty-eradication tool. Supporters of this scheme include Economics Nobel Laureates Peter Diamond and Christopher Pissarides, and tech leaders Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk. UBI in its true sense would entail the provision of an unconditional fixed amount to every citizen in a country. Nevertheless, countries across the world, including Kenya, Brazil, Finland, and Switzerland, have bought into this concept and have begun controlled UBI pilots to supplement their population. India’s huge capacity and infrastructure-building requirements will support plenty of hands in the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, even before the pandemic, India was struggling to find enough opportunities for more than a million job aspirants who were entering the job market each month. The 2016-17 Economic Survey and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had once proposed quasi-basic income schemes that leave out the well-off top quartile of the population as an effective means of alleviating poverty and hunger. The fiscal cost of a UBI pegged at Rs. 7,620, at 75% universality, was 4.9% of the GDP. A UBI on par with the numbers suggested by the Economic Survey could lead to targeted household incomes increasing by almost Rs. 40,000 per annum, since the average Indian household size is approximately five.  The political will was nonetheless lukewarm because of the costs involved. Requirements to trim some of the existing subsidies to balance the resultant deficit were also difficult political minefields for the then government. So the proposition was finally shelved. Different times The times now are very different. IMF has projected global growth in 2020 to be -3.0%, the worst since the Great Depression. India is projected to grow at 1.9%. The U.S. economy is expected to fall by 5.9%. The unemployment rate and unemployment claims in the U.S., since President Donald Trump declared a national emergency, is the highest since the Great Depression. Unfortunately, India does not even have comparable data. Lockdowns in some format are expected to be the norm till the arrival of a vaccine. With almost 90% of India’s workforce in the informal sector without minimum wages or social security, micro-level circumstances will be worse in India than anywhere else. The frequent sight of several thousands of migrant labourers undertaking perilous journeys on foot in inhumane conditions is a disgraceful blight on India. One way to ensure their sustenance throughout these trying times is the introduction of unconditional regular pay checks at maximum universality, at least till the economy normalises. If universal basic income ever had a time, it is now. Anil K. Antony is the Convener of INC – Kerala Digital Media, and the National Coordinator of PIIndia.org, a COVID19 action group. Tweets @anilkantony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-time-for-a-universal-basic-income-programme-in-india/article31718635.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Land of the unfree||If ever there were a doubt that racism in the U.S. had outlived eight years under former President Barack Obama, the events of this week, including protests following the death of an African-American, George Floyd, in police action in Minneapolis, Minnesota, have set them to rest. Even as rallies and police crackdowns engulfed a wide swathe of American metros, President Donald Trump inserted himself into the controversy and triggered a broader debate on censorship of posts by social media platforms. On Friday, Twitter masked and attached a caution note to a tweet by Mr. Trump for “glorifying violence”. In that tweet he had labelled protesters calling for action against police for Floyd’s death “THUGS”, adding “when the looting starts, the shooting starts”, a reference to a threat by a police chief, who in 1967 declared “war” and vowed violent revenge on African-Americans in Miami Beach. As outrage spread across social media, Mr. Trump appeared to dial down his rhetoric subsequently, tweeting, “It was spoken as a fact, not as a statement.” This is hardly the first time that the U.S. President has fanned the flames of hatred. He has said, among other things, that Mexicans were rapists and drug dealers, and in early 2017 he banned visitors from certain Muslim-majority countries. It is almost inevitable that racial tensions will bubble to the surface in an election year and explode when incendiary remarks are made by leaders. Amid such a toxic public discourse, fuelled by a Republican Commander-in-Chief, hope for a more reasonable, tolerant and bipartisan approach rests on the shoulders of Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic Party nominee. Should Mr. Biden select an African-American or a minority community leader as his running mate, the base of potential voters could broaden and help improve the Democrats’ odds of taking back the White House. The potential candidates for this role include California Senator Kamala Harris and Representative Maxine Waters, former National Security Adviser Susan Rice, not to mention former First Lady Michelle Obama. However, the mere tokenism of including persons of colour as a vice-presidential candidate or in a potential Biden cabinet of 2021 will not suffice to heal the painful fractures in American society, riven by hateful rhetoric on race. The balm must include far-reaching legislative reform on the use of excessive force by police against minorities, punishment for all hate crimes, workplace discrimination, and inhumane treatment of migrants at the border. Unless such an agenda, focused on the complete reform of government institutions toward supporting a pluralist ethos, is adopted by the next occupant of the White House, the American dream will remain a mirage for many.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/land-of-the-unfree/article31718623.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Open with caution||It is a truth universally acknowledged now that the severe restrictions to contain COVID-19 produced traumatic displacement of the weakest sections, while the check on infection spread was modest. The Centre’s move for a phased unlocking of public activity after the rigorous lockdown since March 25 sets the stage for people to resume their jobs and undertake some travel. The ‘Unlock 1’ plan should ensure a careful restarting of activities, the most important of which is the delivery of goods and everyday services, including health services unrelated to COVID-19 infections. Latest data since the virus surfaced in the country show that 13 cities, including some of the biggest metros, host 70% of the cases, and many of the earlier restrictions will continue there. Retaining curbs on big gatherings, such as in religious places, is reasonable, given the history of these sites unwittingly becoming super spreaders. But States must show diligence in actively testing and quarantining individuals in cities with high incidence to significantly control the spread. Half-hearted approaches to implementing the measures mandated by the National Directives for COVID-19 Management, such as those on face cover, physical distancing in public places, shops and establishments, spitting, and gathering in large numbers, can only worsen the crisis, especially with resumption of public transport. Citizens who have accepted severe curtailment of liberties during the lockdown can be persuaded to adopt a healthy public behaviour code using measures that are civil, yet firm. Even with the easing of the lockdown, the severe economic contraction caused by loss of jobs requires governments to demonstrate as much commitment to mitigating misery as to containing infection. A genuinely universal PDS with adequate supplies of foodgrain, ensuring that no one is left behind, must be provided in all States. Cash supplements should reach all intended beneficiaries. This needs to be underscored, as surveys of workers who lost jobs after the pandemic indicate rising hunger levels and missing financial support. Some sections, such as Dalits, women, and low-skilled workers are even worse off. For the elderly, vulnerable individuals and children below 10, the Centre’s advice is to shelter in place even during the relaxation phase. This is medically sound advice, but cannot be done over a long period in big cities, as they cannot access goods and services at their doorstep, simply because they are classified as non-essential. The course of COVID-19 in the weeks ahead is by no means predictable, and the Centre recognises the possibility of new rural clusters emerging due to large-scale return of migrants. Whether in the cities or the countryside, ‘Unlock 1’ must prioritise some actions: create public awareness that the virus is present, ramp up testing, provide health services, and intensively monitor relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/open-with-caution/article31718622.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Japanese form of strike||Workers in a big industrial establishment in Japan were on strike, but work in the factory was in full swing, with all the employees wearing strike badges on their arms. This very much surprised the Union Minister of State for Steel and Heavy Engineering, Mr. K. C. Pant, who visited the factory in Japan during his recent trip there. The workers did not stop work, or interfere with the process of production in the national interest. Mr. Pant, who was inaugurating the Agrobin Trades Industrial Estate in Edapally near here [Cochin, May 31], said the management of the factory was fully cognizant of the fact that there was a strike and started negotiations for a settlement of the dispute. Thus the workers, the management and the country did not suffer. Mr. Pant said such an attitude and climate were highly essential for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/japanese-form-of-strike/article31718632.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Why the humble FD is the best choice now||Over the course of the past one month, I received many more queries on debt investments than usual. If you think this happened solely because of the Franklin India debt fund fallout, that isn’t the case. There were questions on buying gilts, gilt funds, going for Bharat Bond ETFs, buying bank AT1 bonds and why not fixed deposits in Yes Bank! The chief reason for all these questions is actually the low interest rate scenario prevailing in bank deposits and post office small savings scheme. The search for higher rates has begun! But in the process, it is important not to choose options that are ill-suited to your risk profile. Here are some points you will do well to remember: Gilts may be unsuitable If your objective is to get regular interest income through a buy-and-hold strategy of safe, government debt securities (called gilts), it not a good idea now. With gilts nosediving to under 6%, you lock into low interest now, just as you would lock into a long-term FD at low rates now. What people do in such scenarios is tactically play this, by entering when yields are expected to go down (and cause prices to rise) and exit with come capital gain when rates touch a low. But if you are not a bond market watcher who is ready to time investments, gilts will not help you at this stage. A discerning investor said he could overcome the need to tactically do this himself by choosing gilt funds as the fund manager would book some profits or enter opportunistically. True. Gilt funds can be good long-term options. But what he did not know is that gilt funds, too, can deliver negative one-year returns, when rates suddenly turn adverse. So, would the investor be willing to see some market-linked losses in his gilts (which he sees as a proxy to FD)? Another investor told us that he was advised gilt funds as a six-month product and that he could generate 6% in six months. Now, I am not refuting the possibility of such returns in the current scenario. But what he was not told is that the gilt funds can be very volatile and you can lose capital if the interest rate suddenly moves up. Your FD would give you an assured return even over six months, but not so your gilt funds. They need a longer time frame to tide over such volatility and rate risks. The same holds good for Bharat Bond ETFs too. They are quality papers of PSUs and their yields (current 10-year ETF at 6.81%) are better than gilts but there is no escaping price volatility. The question you need to ask yourself is whether this is the best return you can get if you simply hold for 10 years. And again, they don’t fit your bill for steady income or far higher returns, in the current low rate scenario. Bonds and equity risks With the search for higher returns came the risk appetite for AT-1 bonds of banks, once again. Many asked us whether investment into AT-1 bonds of ‘safer’ banks such as SBI or ICICI Bank are not advisable. Well, they are indeed less risky than other banks. But the issue lies in believing that these bonds are similar to FDs, when they are not. AT-1 bonds are built to be part of the permanent capital for banks (like equities). They carry many terms that make them unlike a debt instrument. They can skip interest payment (and not carry it as a due), under certain conditions. They need not mature in five or 10 years. They can write down your principal and move on! I am not trying to scare you with these details. There could still be bonds that are worth your attention but only if you know that these are unsuitable for capital preservation and that the risks are high. They are most definitely not a substitute for FDs. This is not to dissuade you from any of the above products. I would like you to understand that some of them can carry price volatility (from interest rate moves) and can cause capital losses, while some carry risks you did not know existed. If you didn’t know this, you may be looking at the wrong options, and if you were simply looking for substitutes for deposits. Should you, therefore, stick to low-interest deposits? You should, if you are only looking for products similar to FDs. You should go for the above options or similar ones only if you understand market risks. That is, the price of these instruments can swing to market movement (like equity) and even cause losses temporarily or for extended periods. You need to understand if your timing is right whether the residual maturity is low or high, to assess the risk. Otherwise, it is better to wait it out with deposits. Interest rates are unlikely to remain low for years together. A year or two will likely see rates move north. Bear the pain for a while and do not also yield to high rates offered aggressively by new-age banks. While you have the comfort that banks aren’t allowed to fail in India, a merger or restructuring or even bank insurance is not a quick solution to getting back your money. In these times, discretion is the better part of valour.  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/why-the-humble-fd-is-the-best-choice-now/article31718607.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Does your risk appetite really matter?||You should buy an investment product that suits your risk appetite, so you are told. This statement presupposes that you know your risk appetite, and that your risk appetite does not change with time, even if you invest in a product through a long-dated systematic investment plan (SIP). Suffice to know that determining your risk appetite is difficult because of behavioural reasons. Also, your risk appetite will change over time due to factors other than aging. In this article, we explain why buying an investment product is more a function of your life goal than your risk appetite, when you self-manage your investments. Goal pitted against risk You cannot pursue all your life goals because you have to balance your current lifestyle and savings. This forces you to prioritise your goals. How do you decide on goal priority? A simple test is to ask a question: can your goal be postponed? If not, then the goal is high priority. Your child’s college education fund, is an example. Suppose your current high-priority goal is to accumulate Rs. 1 crore as down payment to buy a beach house eight years hence. Given your current lifestyle and your income levels, you can save, say, Rs. 75,000 each month to achieve this goal. So, a compounded annual return of 8.5% on your savings will help you accumulate Rs. 1 crore at the end of eight years. You believe that investing in equity is risky and prefer bank deposits. But bank deposits earn a pre-tax return of 5.75% and a post-tax return of 4%, assuming a marginal tax rate of 30%. Given that you need 8.5% post-tax returns, yielding to your perceived risk appetite means you will fail to achieve your goal. Surely, you cannot give up on your high-priority goal because of your presumably low risk appetite. What should you do? Present versus future You have two choices: increase your monthly savings so that earning 4% on bank deposits will help you accumulate Rs. 1 crore in eight years. Or, invest in products that can offer higher returns but carry higher risk. Now, curbing your current lifestyle to save more is easier said than done. You could marginally increase your monthly savings, but you may still need to invest in risky investments (read equity) to achieve your goal. That said, how should you choose your equity investments: active funds or index funds? Note that index funds carry market risk viz. the risk that the fund will decline in value along with the broader market. In addition to market risk, active funds carry active risk viz. the risk that the fund could underperform the benchmark index. You may want to settle for only market risk, given that you have to invest in equity despite your concern for such investments. And that means choosing a large-cap index fund. The risk of investing in a large-cap fund is the price you pay for your current lifestyle. That is, less savings means better current lifestyle as you spend more of your income now, but that forces you to invest in equity to earn higher returns. Conclusion Your risk appetite is not a factor you should consider when investing to achieve high-priority goals. The argument is simple: if your savings cannot help you achieve your high-priority goal with bank fixed deposits, then you have to invest in equity. If taking risk can help you improve your chances of achieving your goal as well as balance your current lifestyle and savings, then not taking risk is risky. So, start your equity SIPs sooner than later.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/does-your-risk-appetite-really-matter/article31718609.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Gold, silver remain range bound in May||The price of precious metals remained range bound in May. The sentiment was influenced by the news flow relating to key economic data and stimulus packages announced across the globe. Besides, the news flow relating to the COVID-19, too, played a role in influencing their prices. Comex gold gained 3.4% to settle at $1,751.7 an ounce by the end of May. The price action in Comex silver was more dramatic with the white metal gaining 24.2% to settle at $18.5 an ounce. In the domestic market, MCX gold futures gained 4.5% to settle at Rs. 47,069 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures gained 22% to close at Rs. 50,096 a kg. As observed last month, Comex gold was confined to the trading range of $1,650-1,800. The short-term outlook is positive. Comex gold has bounced back from the lower end of the range which is a sign of strength. A move to the immediate resistance at $1,775-1,785 is likely. The uptrend would gather momentum on a close above $1,800. The positive outlook would be under threat if the price closes below the support level at $1,650. Comex silver, too, moved in line with last month’s expectations. The price moved up and reached the target of $17.8-18 mentioned in the previous post. The short-term outlook is positive and Comex silver can move to the short-term target of $19.3-19.8 range. A breakout above $18.2 would be a sign of strength and strengthen the case for a rise to the target zone. A fall below $16.5 would be a sign of weakness and warrant a reassessment of the positive view. MCX gold futures ruled firm and achieved the target zone of Rs. 47,800-49,000 mentioned last month. The short-term outlook is positive and gold futures is likely to progress to the immediate target zone at Rs. 49,100-49,800 zone. A breakout past Rs. 47,700 would confirm the bullish case scenario. The short-term trend would turn weak if the price falls below Rs. 44,800 per 10 gm. MCX silver, too, achieved the target of Rs. 47,500-48,000. The strong breakout in the price of May 29 is a positive sign. It is likely to head higher to the immediate target zone at Rs. 52,000-53,000 per kg. A breakout above Rs. 51,000 would lend momentum to the upside.  (The author is a Chennai based analyst/trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-silver-remain-range-bound-in-may/article31718611.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask us||Q.I retired from a government-owned bank in July 2018. My employer has got a medical assistance fund for retirees and their spouses. From this fund, a group mediclaim policy is taken for covering hospitalisation expenses subject to a maximum of Rs. 4 lakh per hospitalisation. Recently, I was admitted to a hospital for undergoing a neurosurgery for Parkinson’s disease and the total expenses amounted to Rs. 15 lakh. Of this, the insurance company paid Rs. 4 lakh and the balance amount was paid by me. After writing to the bank, I received Rs. 8 lakh from the medical fund leaving Rs. 3 lakh to be borne by me. Now, my question is: are the amounts received from the insurance company and the bank taxable?  R. Sampath A.There are no express provisions entailing taxability of medical insurance claims in the Income Tax Act, 1961. It is widely understood that such claims received from insurers are reimbursements in nature, as medical expenses are already incurred by the policyholder wherein insurers either take over such expenses in cashless claims or make a direct payment to policyholders on scrutiny of medical records and bills. In our opinion, such receipts are not taxable in the hands of the policyholder irrespective of the deductions claimed under section 80D. With respect to the amount received from the fund of the bank, the querist has not clarified whether the fund is registered under Section 12A/12AA/10(23C). The amount received from the funds registered under the sections referred to are not subjected to tax. Q.I had taken a home loan of Rs. 20 lakh in 2016. About 10 days ago, I received Rs. 2.3 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana interest subsidy. Is it tax exempt or taxable? Besides, I also pre-paid Rs. 2 lakh towards the home loan.    Selvakumar V. A.As per the scheme policy, interest subsidy will be credited upfront to the loan account of beneficiaries through primary lending institutions, resulting in a reduced effective housing loan and equated monthly instalment (EMI). The interest subsidy under CLSS is released on approval of the nodal agencies directly to the applicant’s lender in lump sum. As this results in reduced EMIs over the remaining tenure of the loan, it can be considered as a “capital receipt”. Capital receipts are not chargeable to tax under the Income Tax Act. This view is also supported vide an ITAT Ruling in Kolkata bench in the case of DCIT V. Pricewaterhouse Coopers Pvt. Ltd. in 2016.  (The author is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article31718605.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article31718613.ece
01 June 2020||MUNICH,||Bayern goes 10 clear||Bayern Munich moved closer to a record-extending 30th league title after its Polish striker Robert Lewandowski ended a personal jinx in a 5-0 drubbing of struggling Fortuna Dusseldorf in the Bundesliga on Saturday. The result left leader Bayern, which is chasing an eighth successive league title, top of the standings on 67 points from 29 games, 10 ahead of closest rival Borussia Dortmund. Lewandowski snapped his goal drought versus 16th-placed Fortuna when he scored for the first time against it to give Bayern a 3-0 lead in the first half after a Mathias Joergensen own goal and Benjamin Pavard header opened the floodgates. Lewandowski made it 4-0 shortly after the break with another predator’s finish before left back Alphonso Davies completed the rout in the 52nd minute after weaving past three defenders. Meanwhile on Sunday, Marcus Thuram and Alassane Plea combined to score three goals as Borussia Monchengladbach crushed Union Berlin 4-1 to reclaim third place with five matches left.  The results: Borussia Monchengladbach 4 (Neuhaus 17, Thuram 41, 59, Plea 81) bt Union Berlin 1 (Andersson 50).   Saturday: Bayern Munich 5 (Joergensen 15-og, Pavard 29, Lewandowski 43, 50, Davies 52) bt Fortuna Dusseldorf 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-goes-10-clear/article31718730.ece
01 June 2020||Chennai,||‘Game is more physical and faster’||The former coach of the Indian women’s basketball team Tamika Williams stressed the need for Indians to improve their skills with respect to strength and speed, to become more competitive at the highest level. Changed a lot Speaking at a webinar, organised by the Indian Basketball Players Association, Williams, a former WNBA player and who coached the Indian women’s team during the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou said, “The game has changed a lot over the last 10 years. It is more physical and faster with scores of 70-80 the norm from the 50-60 points.” “So the one area where the Indian women need to focus and get better is to become stronger. “When I was here, there was some apprehension to working on core strengths, lifting weights and being stronger because they did not want to become very muscular. But once they realised what it could do to their games, it changed.” The route Williams also added that more Indian women need to go through the US university system and slowly lay the foundation by teaching the local talent at the grassroots level and help them take the next step. Former India player Appoorva Muralinath who is currently an assistant women’s coach at Dean College, Massachusetts said, “The strength and conditioning part of the game is something we are not used to, but it is a huge part of the game. “It does not just help you avoid injuries or recover faster from one, but it goes beyond that. It is not just about becoming big. “ Knowing you are stronger takes your game to a different level and makes you believe in yourself that you can take on any opponent.”  The strength and conditioning part of the game is something we are not used to Appoorva MuralinathFormer India player||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/game-is-more-physical-and-faster/article31718787.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||National federations to distribute ITF relief||The International Tennis Federation (ITF) has roped in the national governing bodies of each country to help route financial support to lower-ranked players reeling under the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. Close to a dozen Indians are expected to receive money from the programme aimed at singles players ranked 501-700. This is different from the fund set up by the ATP, WTA, Grand Slam nations and top players led by Novak Djokovic. “Doubles players ranked between 175 and 300 will also be helped,” an ITF source said. “It’s a nominal amount, less than $2000 (per player).” It is understood that only those players who have been competing in the last 10 months are eligible. The likes of Karman Kaur Thandi (606), Y. Pranjala (664), Manish Suresh Kumar (642) and Arjun Kadhe (655) in singles along with Saketh Myneni (180), Vishnu Vardhan (199) and Rutuja Bhosale (196) in doubles are set to benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-federations-to-distribute-itf-relief/article31718737.ece
01 June 2020||London,||Sports ready for restart in the UK||“The British sporting recovery has begun” the UK government proclaimed as it approved the return of domestic competitive action behind closed doors from June 1. But with much of the country still in effective lockdown, Culture, Media and Sport Secretary Oliver Dowden, told a news conference on Saturday: “For more than two months after sport stopped and after weeks of round-the-clock discussions with medical experts and professional sports bodies, I’m delighted to announce today that the government has published guidance which allows competitive sport to resume behind closed doors from Monday (June 1) at the earliest.” Horse racing is set to be the first major sport back in action on Monday. The England and Wales Cricket Board will step up plans to restart the sport behind closed doors after the British government gave the green light to return to action. Meanwhile, there have been no positive findings from the latest round of coronavirus testing carried out in the Premier League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-ready-for-restart-in-the-uk/article31718794.ece
01 June 2020||NEW YORK,||US Open: various options being explored||Charter flights to ferry players and limited entourages from Europe, South America and the Middle East to New York. Negative COVID-19 tests before travelling. Centralised housing. Daily temperature checks. No spectators. Fewer on-court officials. No locker-room access on practice days. All are among the scenarios being considered for the 2020 U.S. Open — if it is held at all amid the coronavirus pandemic — and described to The Associated Press by a high-ranking official at the Grand Slam tournament.  “All of this is still fluid,” Stacey Allaster, the U.S. Tennis Association’s chief executive for professional tennis, said in a phone interview. “We have made no decisions at all.” With that caveat, Allaster added that if the USTA board does decide to go forward with the Open, she expects it to be held at its usual site and in its usual spot on the calendar. The main draw is scheduled to start Aug. 31. “We continue to be, I would say, 150% focused on staging a safe environment for conducting a U.S. Open at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York on our dates. It’s all I wake up — our team wakes up — thinking about,” Allaster said. “The idea of an alternative venue, an alternative date...we’ve got a responsibility to explore it, but it doesn’t have a lot of momentum.” An announcement should come from mid-June to end of June, Allaster said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/us-open-various-options-being-explored/article31718796.ece
01 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Sports fraternity getting restive||The sports fraternity in the State is getting restless after missing more than two months of regular training because of the COVID lockdown. Their general impression is that enough of ‘training from home’ has been done, which cannot ensure match-fitness. Chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand is armed with a new model of training to implement all the Covid-19 guidelines, even thinking of allocating separate courts for the lead players. Awaiting clarity But, Gopi also is waiting for clarity as to when he can resume full training. Renowned badminton coach and Dronacharya S.M. Arif felt that the State government must take a call at the earliest. “When so many other things can be opened, why not stadia? I appeal to the government to allow training sessions immediately. “I have been getting complaints from parents about kids becoming restive. A serious threat to their mental make-up cannot be ruled out if stadia continue to be closed,” he said. Time to start World championship bronze medallist and ace shuttler B. Sai Praneeth also said it was time they start training. “We cannot just go on with this home training. There has to be a way out as early as possible,” he said. Former India football captain Victor Amalraj said that many States have already opened their stadia and Telangana should also do so. Will follow guidelines “There are always guidelines to be followed and obviously the coaches and the athletes should be conscious of this and will definitely abide by them for their own and others’ safety,” he said. Former national champion B. Chetan Anand said that the break from training cannot be for too long, given the cramped BWF tournament schedule. Even the HCA top brass is keen to meet top government officials to seek permission to begin training. Meanwhile, a deputy director of Sports Authority of Telangana State informed that the stadia might remain closed for another week, when fresh instructions are likely to be issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-fraternity-getting-restive/article31718976.ece
01 June 2020||CHENNAI,||SRFI to launch app for registration||The Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI) has introduced a few measures to be adopted on its National circuit. SRFI secretary Cyrus Poncha and national development officer Harish Prasad said in a webinar on Saturday that these measures would be implemented gradually, once the lockdown is lifted. Among the initiatives Poncha announced are the launch of a mobile app “in a couple of months” for players, coaches, referees and academies to register in tournaments and the addition of I-Spin Pro, a personal identification number for professionals, to the existing I-Spin free account. Players will also be able to withdraw entries three hours prior to closure (9 p.m.) on deadline day. Asked whether this facility could be misused, Poncha said it was brought in with the intention of helping players but it was something the SRFI would monitor and “look into”. There is no change, for the present, in the dates and venues for the National junior/sub-junior championships (scheduled in Mumbai from Oct. 31 to Nov. 6). “The SRFI rankings till April have been frozen, and an updated rankings list will be released after the junior Nationals,” said Poncha. Girls in the under-11, 13, 15 and 17 age-brackets will be able to participate in one additional category: under-19. “This will not be applicable to boys as of now,” said Poncha. Closed State championships, which earlier had two-star ranking points, will carry only one star now. While the World Squash Federation has prescribed a set of guidelines to be followed, Poncha said, “They are not an all-encompassing one that could work in all countries [uniformly]. We are waiting for new guidelines from the State and Central governments to plan our next course of action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srfi-to-launch-app-for-registration/article31718793.ece
01 June 2020||KOLKATA,||National camp likely from June 10||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI), the first National sports federation to hold online classes during the lockdown, is taking initiatives to resume the National camp from June 10. “We had a detailed discussion with our boxers and coaching staff last week. After their unanimous willingness to start the training process, we have proposed the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to start the camps for both Olympics qualified and men and women boxers of the remaining categories in Patiala from June 10,” BFI president Ajay Singh told The Hindu . Ajay said the federation tried to keep the boxers in good physical and mental shape. “My colleagues in BFI and the coaches put together a master plan that ensured all the Olympic-qualified boxers, along with probables, were connected and online classes were initiated.  “I spoke to each one of them to understand the challenges. Maintaining weight was a problem for some and mental wellness and diet were some of the key challenges. Due to home training, many faced a roadblock as they did not have the right equipment at home. However, this issue was immediately resolved by SAI as new sets of equipment were delivered at most of the boxers’ houses.” The BFI chief said a team of officials and support staff closely monitored the athletes. “BFI also ensured that a specific monitoring system was implemented and online coaching was seamlessly introduced so that boxers could resume training and maintain the level of fitness that is necessary for elite athletes... customised diet charts were also made available,” said Ajay Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-camp-likely-from-june-10/article31718902.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Happy coach Rastogi recounts journey||When Karan Rastogi was world No. 4 junior in 2004, Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic had no great ranking to speak of. Gael Monfils, who had beaten Karan in the semifinals of Australian Open juniors, was World No. 1 that year, having won the Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon junior titles. Andy Murray was World No. 2 junior and had won the US Open. “I remember I was drawn to play Djokovic in the first round of the Australian Open. Later, they changed the draw as there was a mistake,” recalled the 33-year-old Karan, who is happily coaching the Hong Kong Davis Cup and Fed Cup teams. “It took a while to gain their trust, as they had not seen me,” he said about coaching in another country.  Having quit the game owing to a back injury which did not go away even after surgery, Karan took to coaching in 2012. Permanent residency “After coaching a few players for about six months in Mumbai, I came to Hong Kong on a 10-month contract. It is already eight years, and I have got a permanent residency here,” said Karan, in an Instagram chat with coach M. Balachandran. Karan had the best of support from his parents, and had training stints in BAT in Chennai, apart from the IMG Academy in Florida where he used to train with the likes of Serena Williams, Maria Sharapova at the Nick Bollettieri Centre. Fresh memory The memory was fresh about sharing room with Kei Nishikori at the IMG Centre, and how the Japanese was already having a sponsor, and a physio to help him. “Nishikori was three years younger to me. He was special, so quick and agile,” said Karan. The stint in Florida also opened the eyes of Karan about the need for higher levels of physical fitness. Acknowledging his parents’ role, Karan said, “the sacrifice of my mom and dad, you can’t put in words. All credit to them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/happy-coach-rastogi-recounts-journey/article31718904.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dingko tests positive for COVID-19||Asian Games gold medal-winning former boxer Dingko Singh, already battling liver cancer, has tested positive for COVID-19, adding to his health complications which earlier came in the way of an urgently-arranged radiation therapy. The 41-year-old Arjuna and Padma Shri awardee has been admitted to a hospital at Imphal, more than a week after returning from Delhi. “He was negative when he left from Delhi but has tested positive on his return to Manipur,” revealed a source close to the boxer. “While he was in Delhi, his nurse had tested positive but he himself was negative at the time of leaving.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dingko-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31718732.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura stuns Carlsen||Comeback-man Hikaru Nakamura knocked out World champion Magnus Carlsen with a thrilling 3-2 win in their third mini-match to reach the final of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge on Friday. After a day of rest, Nakamura will take on the 2018 World rapid champion Daniil Dubov for the title. Nakamura, blown away 3-0 in the first mini-match and staring at defeat in the opening game of the second mini-match, eventually crossed the finish line when Carlsen resigned soon after overlooking the loss of a rook in the Armageddon game of their third mini-match.  The result (semifinal, third mini-match):   Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nakamura-stuns-carlsen/article31718731.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vinesh to be nominated for Khel Ratna||Wrestling World Championships bronze medallist Vinesh Phogat is set to be nominated for the Khel Ratna for the second year in a row while Rio Olympics bronze winner Sakshi Malik wants to be in contention for Arjuna, although she already is a recipient of the country’s highest sporting honour.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-to-be-nominated-for-khel-ratna/article31718739.ece
01 June 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal’s grand old buildings bear the brunt of Amphan||When super cyclone Amphan swept through south Bengal last week, it not only flattened thousands of houses, but also severely damaged some of its centuries-old heritage structures. Palaces, mosques, temples or offices depicting Islam’s footprint on the Bengal frontier to architectural traditions of European colonialism, gardens from the time of 19th century resurgence in Bengal’s cultural landscape to the recently renovated British-era buildings all bore the brunt. Shubha Majumder, superintending archaeologist of the Kolkata Circle of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), said a report on the damage had been sent to the headquarters of ASI. For Antara Mukherjee, a teacher and heritage enthusiast, the experience is “traumatic”. Many of the old buildings, gardens, mosques or colleges in Hooghly district were damaged, said Ms. Mukherjee, who has managed to map the damage with a team from the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), within a week of the cyclone. Serampore College, founded 200 years back by William Carey, a cultural anthropologist who played a significant role in the spread of western education, is one of the damaged buildings. The mahogany windows of the stately main building, dropped from the first floor and broke into pieces. “The garden in front of a heritage building in the college is ruined,” Ms. Mukherjee said. The Dupleix Palace at Chandannagar, built by French Governor-General Joseph Francois Dupleix, also suffered severe damage. Another damage listed by the INTACH members is that to the Hooghly Imambara constructed between 1841 and 1861. “It has two bronze towers at the top and one of it has plain gone,” Ms. Mukherjee said. The main structure of an early medieval brick temple, Jatar Deul, dating back to the 11th and 12th century CE (Current Era) in Namkhana of South 24 Parganas “has not suffered major damage but the compound and boundary walls have been destroyed,” Mr. Majumder said. Narrow escape In Kolkata, the newly restored Metcalfe Hall has suffered some structural damage, while the Currency Building in city’s central business area narrowly escaped when a tree fell a few metres away from the main structure. The iconic St. Andrew’s Church nearby, which dates back to 1818, also sustained severe damage. “ Iska hawa murga chala gaya (the weathercock atop the church flew off),” said Avadesh, the upset gatekeeper of the church, who has been working in the premises for nearly 50 years. “It was the main attraction and prestige of the church,” he said. “Our first priority will be to remove the trees near the structures and sites. As far as the complete restoration is concerned, it will take time, maybe a few years,” said Mr. Majumder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/bengals-grand-old-buildings-bear-the-brunt-of-amphan/article31718799.ece
03 June 2020||Washington,||SpaceX’s spacecraft docks with ISS||SpaceX’s Dragon spacecraft with two NASA astronauts on Sunday successfully docked with the International Space Station after a historic launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, marking the dawn of a new age in commercial space travel.    Elon Musk’s SpaceX company confirmed the successful docking of NASA astronauts Bob Behnken (49) and Doug Hurley (53) with the ISS, the orbiting laboratory. “Docking confirmed — Crew Dragon has arrived at the @space_station!” the California-headquartered company announced on Twitter. NASA also took to Twitter to announce the docking. The crew will be welcomed aboard the ISS, where they will become members of the Expedition 63 crew, which includes NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy. The liftoff also assumes significance as it marks the launch of humans into orbit from the U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade. The SpaceX Crew Dragon spacecraft, carrying astronauts Behnken and Hurley, lifted off on Saturday atop the company’s Falcon 9 rocket from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. With the liftoff, SpaceX became the first private company to launch people into the orbit, a feat achieved previously by only three governments: the US, Russia and China. The launch, postponed early this week due to inclement weather, gave Americans something to cheer about as in the last three months they have lost over 1,00,000 of their countrymen due to the COVID-19 that has brought the economy to its knees. More than 40 million people have lost jobs. Top U.S. leadership including President Donald Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, and thousands of curious Americans had gathered to watch the launch live on a bright Sunday afternoon. Congratulating Mr. Musk, NASA and the astronauts, Mr. Trump described the launch day as a great day for the country. The President said he spoke with Mr. Musk, whom he called one of the “great brains”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/spacexs-spacecraft-docks-with-iss/article31718728.ece
01 June 2020||KOCHI,||Rare scorpionfish found in Gulf of Mannar||Researchers at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) have found a rare fish from Sethukarai coast in the Gulf of Mannar. Camouflaged within the seagrass meadows, the band-tail scorpionfish ( Scorpaenospsis neglecta ), well-known for its stinging venomous spines and ability to change colour, was found during an exploratory survey of the seagrass ecosystem. This was the first time that the particular species was found alive in Indian waters, said a press release. The fish has the ability to change colour and blend with its surrounding environment to escape from predators and while preying. “During the underwater survey, this species was first sighted as a coral skeleton. On first look, its appearance was totally confusing and we doubted if it was a fish or fossilised coral skeleton covered with bivalve shells. Colour changing “It started changing when we disturbed it by touching a dead coral fragment. Within four seconds, the skin of the fish changed from white to mottled black colour,” said R. Jeyabaskaran, senior scientist at CMFRI, who led the team of researchers. The fish is called ‘scorpionfish’ because its spines contain neurotoxic venom. Neurotoxic “When the spines pierce an individual, the venom gets injected immediately and it can be extremely painful,” Mr. Jeyabaskaran said, adding that eating the fish would lead to death. The specimen has been deposited in the National Marine Biodiversity Museum of the CMFRI. The research work was published in the latest issue of the journal Current Science .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/rare-scorpionfish-found-in-gulf-of-mannar/article31718785.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Cause of misery||Many have been inspired by Adi Sankara’s Advaita philosophy that postulates the non dualistic wisdom embedded in Vedanta teachings. The core of his teaching is that the Supreme Brahman alone is real and is the essence of Sat-Chit-Ananda, Existence-Knowledge-Bliss. All else that is manifest as the universe is on account of His Maya and Brahman and Atman are one and undifferentiated. There are many who accept this theory of non dualism, and many who differ or accept alternative views on the oneness of Brahman and Atman. Among the many texts that explain the Advaita doctrine and try to simplify it so that it is accessible for the common man, the ‘Laghu Vasudeva Mananam’ offers valuable and practical insights into this doctrine, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. As the title implies, it is a condensed version of an original text that is attributed to one Vasudeva which is believed to be lost. From the content, format and arguments in the text, it is clear that it is the work of an ardent and dedicated disciple who has not disclosed his name. The author shows how the origin of human misery is linked together by many factors forming as it were a chain of samsara. Samsara is binding on all beings. The root cause of samsara is avidya or ignorance of self knowledge. As long as one associates with the body and is involved with the world without the perception that the atma is the only reality, one is caught in dissatisfaction and limitations. One searches to seek fulfilment through desires. Desires lead to karma or action; this results in papa and punya. In reverse order too, papa punya leads one to karma, that is, more action. The chain can be cut if desires are cut. For this one has to realise that the self is the essence of bliss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/cause-of-misery/article31718687.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 08:14 IST,||Sudoku - June 1, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-1-2020/article31719477.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Believe in yourself||The Joint Entrance Exams (JEE) are life changing for IIT aspirants. The JEE Main (JEEM) is the first stage to clear for those who aspire to take admission in the IITs. Those who missed the exams in January must appear in the second phase normally conducted in April, which has now been delayed due to COVID-19. Even those who take the exam in January appear for the second phase since the best of the two scores is considered. The JEE Advanced (JEEA) aspirants are also advised to appear in the JEEM second phase to ensure that they qualify to take the JEEA exam. Due to COVID 19, both exams have been delayed, which means an extended preparation time is available to aspirants. The JEE Main mostly has questions of singular concepts; some are direct formula based. On the other hand, the questions asked in the JEE Advanced require in-depth understanding of concepts and their application and are even multi-conceptual. Such questions not only require a solid foundation in the subject but also clarity in concepts along with high analytical skill, reasoning power and exposure to problem-solving of various types. Here are a few tips and tricks to help students strengthen their preparation.  Smart planning and time management is key: First  is a smart revision plan that covers the entire syllabus in available time. Make a study task table that utilises time effectively by dividing the subjects and topics on a daily basis. Allocate equal time to each subject so that due attention is paid to each topic/concept.  Utilise resources efficiently: Mastering the concept is a must, so choose study material that is easy to understand. At this stage, NCERT books and concise study notes and tricks to solve seemingly difficult questions will be the handiest. Do not confuse yourself by referring to multiple authors, as different writers have various methods to solve a problem.  Attempt online mock tests: Methodical planned revision and daily mock tests will help overcome weaknesses, increase speed and accuracy and keep you updated with current trend and exam pattern. Go through past papers, online mock tests, doubt clearing sessions, and get expert opinion from real-time analysis. Learn from your mistakes and avoid repeating them. Attend regular mock tests to understand weaknesses. This provides a comparative as well as progressive analysis that will help plan your preparation.  Ensure clarity of concepts: Solve quality problems covering all types and patterns from past years. Cracking the JEE requires clarity of concept and application and analytical skills.  In the last week: Do intermittent quick revisions from your short notes. Go through formulae and concepts of every chapter in all three subjects. Do not attempt new problems. Focus on polishing your strengths by regular revision, testing, analysis, and corrective action. Believe in yourself, work hard and stay focused with positive energy. Taking time to relax or rest also prepares the brain to recall what you have learnt. Keep calm, as nervousness can adversely affect your performance.  On D-Day: Start with the subject you are most confident about. First, attempt those questions to which you know the correct answer. Do not invite negative marks by attempting questions you do not know anything about. For JEEA, in addition to the above, attempt questions that do not have negative marks even if you have to guess. Finally it is the relative performance and not absolute level of difficulty that matters. The writer is the Director FIITJEE Group and Ex-CMD MECON under MOS    Methodical planned revision and daily mock tests will help overcome weaknesses, and increase speed and accuracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/believe-in-yourself/article31718617.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The business of law||Corporate law — also known as company law, business law and enterprise law — is one of the fastest growing fields of law in India. High domestic demand, improved infrastructure, rising penetration of the Internet and smart mobile devices, and various government initiatives such as Startup India and Make in India are continuously giving a boost to domestic as well as multinational corporations in India. Corporate law in India, or any other country, deals with laws governing the rights of the businesses and their people and legally empowers them in the establishment, funding, dispute settlements, ownership of titles, and all the legalities necessary for their successful operation. Rising demand Be it issues related to finance, offshore operations, licensing in the international market, insurance of assets and capital, or mergers and acquisitions between various entities, the help and assistance of a corporate lawyer is the need of every business organisation today. In addition, a corporate lawyer or consultant also guides the client in resolving various pending cases in different tribunals and in preparing various deeds, contracts and negotiations. Apart from the blue-chip and multinational corporations, there are more opportunities for corporate lawyers. Handsome packages A fresher’s package in India usually depends on the market value of the institution from where he/she acquired the degree. For example, if one is a pass-out from a top-level National Law University (NLU), then he/she has chances of beginning with an annual package of Rs. 12-15 lakhs. After five-seven years of work experience, it may reach up to Rs. 25-30 lakhs. On the other hand, a fresher from mid-level NLU usually begins with an annual package of Rs. 7-10 lakhs. In general, remuneration depends on work experience. Many multinational companies also hire Indian corporate lawyers for their overseas subsidiaries. Moreover, Legal Process Outsourcing (LPOs) recruit law graduates for their processes dealing with laws in the US or the UK. Qualifications One can opt for a three-year law course after graduation or a five-year course after high school. However, more people now prefer the latter. The The LLB course is regulated by the Bar Council of India. Specialisations are done at master’s, M.Phil or PhD stage and pursued by those who are interested in academics. Corporate law offers incredible opportunities to work on a myriad issues. Besides providing financial stability, it also improves contacts in the industry and helps to develop good connections in the society. The writer is an advocate, Supreme Court of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/the-business-of-law/article31718620.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||It’s not business as usual||Sometime last month, Vishnu Kant Tiwari, a South Avenue resident, was stopped by policemen patrolling the streets. Accosted by the men in khaki, he said it was his routine post-lunch walk. The lockdown guidelines were read out to him, but he casually responded that he doesn’t believe in COVID-19. Mr. Tiwari was promptly booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Delhi Police has taken action against nearly four lakh people since the beginning of the lockdown for venturing out on the streets without valid reasons, possessing no movement pass and for not wearing mask. A total of 24,731 people were booked under IPC Section 188 and 3,64,253 were charged under Section 65 of the Delhi Police Act. “We have not only booked people for violating lockdown guidelines but also seized 38,654 vehicles. We try to convince people to stay in but when they refuse to listen, we initiate legal action against violators,” said a police officer.  A case of excess?   All the same, some complained that charges were slapped on them unnecessarily. Mohammad Arshad, a motor mechanic who owns a shop in North Delhi’s Civil Lines, said he went to get some tools and cash from his shop when a policeman clicked a few pictures of the shop. Later, he got to know that he was booked for violating lockdown orders. In another instance, Sumit Banerjee, a resident of Palam, said he was stopped by two policemen on a motorcycle when he went to get milk for his daughter. He tried to explain them the reason but they refused to listen and booked him. However, a senior police officer said that they have proof, both pictures and videos, in every case. “We will submit the evidence of violations in court. The court will decide the future course of action,” added the police officer.  Dogged by old habits   Manisha Sethi [name changed] was booked for not wearing a mask at the Vasant Kunj market. “I told the policeman that the grocery shop was about to get shut and I covered my face with a stole but he refused to listen. He made me sign on a paper sheet and told me to ask a relative to come to the police station. I went back home only after my husband came and signed a surety bond,” she recounted her experience. Harish Khanna, a resident of west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, said he apologised to the policemen for stepping out without wearing a mask, but he was nonetheless taken to the police station and let off only after five hours. “Though no case was registered, it was a harrowing experience. I forgot to wear the mask because it was not a habit yet. After the incident, I always keep a spare mask in my pocket,” said Mr. Khanna. Mukesh Singh, a senior citizen and Safdarjung Enclave resident who was booked when out on his morning walk, said the police should be more considerate: “People are already under stress due to financial crisis and an FIR against them will bring more misery. In most cases, they were unaware of the restrictions because some of their routines have become punishable offences. Walking, strolling or going out for household work was a routine until the lockdown. I request the police to consider the situation and give some relief to people.” ‘ Lenient approach’   But a senior police officer countered that they have been generous. That’s the reason, he says, most of them (3.64 lakh) were booked under the Delhi Police Act and only 24,731 under the more stringent IPC Section 188. Their motive, thus, is to warn the violators and not drag them into a legal battle. The violation of Section 188 attracts jail term of one month or fine up to Rs. 200 or both and if the disobedience causes danger to human life, health or safety, the person can be punished with a six-month jail term and a fine of Rs. 1,000 or both. On the contrary, cases registered under Section 188 will reflect in the police file on violators, which would hamper a person during passport or character verification. “In the case of character verification, a case and its status will show in the profile of violators,” said the officer. “The reason for detaining people under the Delhi Police Act was to make them realise their mistake and take assurance that they won’t repeat it in future, without putting them through any legal trouble.” The officer also suggested that lockdown breaches should be akin to traffic challans where the violator can be fined on the spot and FIR registered only for repeat offenders or if the person had knowingly violated the rule. He said with lockdown rules being progressively eased and more people out on the streets, the focus is those stepping out without wearing a mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-not-business-as-usual/article31718916.ece
01 June 2020||June 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The time is NOW||Even after the coronavirus pandemic subsides, its ripple effects will have a permanent impact on education. While most institutions have shifted to online teaching, this approach will be challenging in the long-term. Amid what is likely to be a deep economic recession, students and parents have begun to question what type of higher education provides the best value (if any). COVID-19 is forcing parents to become tech-savvy in a short span, to help their children learn. This may become the new normal with far-reaching implications for students from lower economic groups. Unlike the west, we have never developed a backup online education dissemination plan. According to the 2018-19 All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE), there are 993 universities, 39,931 colleges and 10,725 independent institutions nationwide. Unfortunately, higher education institutions are concentrated mostly in urban areas, and that is the reason for the poor Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER). An effective online education system can mitigate this challenge and GER can reach beyond 80%. Looking inwards  Many students today travel abroad to get a good education, primarily due to the lack of globally ranked education institutions in India. COVID-19 will definitely limit their international travel and the proportion of foreign students enrolled in Indian universities will also reduce. If India is to be featured on global education platforms on a large scale, this is the time. Significant focus needs to be laid on technology and innovation with improvisations in the IT infrastructure. Such a crisis can be turned into an opportunity to align with upcoming prospects. This is the perfect occasion to understand possible threats, spot loopholes and work on capacity building. We have never given online or distance mode of education as much weightage as the regular mode. This is the right time to change this mindset. The University Grants Commission (UGC) and other regulatory bodies need to revise their protocols so that online education is made more mainstream. Faculty selection criteria should also be amended to check for technology friendliness. The current disruption in the education sector will lead to a paradigm shift in the learning process. This will bring more transparency and address the delivery of quality education on a large scale while ensuring inclusive e-learning. Paul Reville, the Francis Keppel Professor of Practice of Educational Policy and Administration at Harvard Graduate School of Education, says, “We don’t simply want to frantically struggle to restore the status quo because the status quo wasn’t operating at an effective level and certainly wasn’t serving all of our children fairly”. The already existing financial and technological disparities among various students have been made more apparent by the current scenario. There are opportunities for universities to leverage the Internet and offer an “anytime, anywhere, anyone” model of higher education. The real challenge will be for professional courses like Medicine, Nursing and Engineering. The education system should also focus on creating innovative career opportunities, as we could see a complete change in the future job markets. With the young population in India being a large number, policy makers should look at developing a consortium-type cluster university platform. A group of premier institutions like IoEs can form a virtual cluster education model to offer low-cost, high-quality, professional education that does not need separate campuses or geographic boundaries. This requires enormous investment and the majority of the Indian institutions cannot afford that unless the government provides support. The national education budget should absorb the cost of these technologies for at least all the IoEs regardless of their status as private or public. India spends considerably less on education compared to many other countries. The IoE tag permits certain institutions to admit up to 30% international students with no restrictions levied on the fee charged from them. They can also hire foreign faculty up to of 25% of the total number. With the focus on online or distance learning, hiring foreign faculty will be easy and cost-effective. In the recent past, India has become one of the fastest-growing sources of outbound students. This outbound travel can be reduced significantly if global levels of quality can be obtained from Indian universities. Also, IoEs like Jamia Hamdard, IITs and IIMs can enhance their capacity through online mode. While this will trigger a competition to attract Indian students, India will enormously benefit in the long run and also emerge as a world leader in quality education with global rankings coming as a bonus! Shibu John is Professor and former Dean, School of Management and Business Studies, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi. Seyed Ehtesham Hasnain is Vice Chancellor, Jamia Hamdard and Former Vice Chancellor, University of Hyderabad, and Former Invited Professor, IIT Delhi, and Former Member, University Grants Commission (UGC).  A longer version of the article is available online.   This is the perfect occasion to understand possible threats, spot loopholes and work on capacity building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-time-is-now/article31718616.ece
01 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia reviews online classes||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday conducted a review of online and SMS/IVR-supported learning for Delhi government schoolchildren during the lockdown and said that around 9 lakh students attended classes over the last two months. The Delhi government introduced and implemented five programmes to support the learning of students across all classes during the lockdown as part of its ‘Parenting in the time of Corona’ initiative launched on April 4. Digital technology On the concluding day of the programmes, Mr. Sidodia said that it was challenging, at first, to conduct online classes with the help of digital technologies as this had never been used at this scale before. The five programmes introduced were live online classes for Class 11 students, everyday English and personality development for Class 10 and 12 students, online maths classes for Class 9 students, digital entrepreneurship mindset classes for students of Class 9 to 12 and SMS/IVR-enabled activity classes for Kintergarten to Class 8 through parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-reviews-online-classes/article31718908.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||AAP govt. gets 10 days to release funds to auto drivers||The High Court has granted 10 days’ time to the Delhi government to release financial assistance package of Rs. 5,000 each to eligible drivers of autorickshaws, e-rickshaws and Gramin sewa, who have not yet received the amount. The High Court was informed that the Transport Department has identified 11,780 applicants holding non-chip PSV (public service vehicle) badges out of which a sum of Rs. 5,000 has already been deposited directly in the bank accounts of 4,835 persons. When the Transport Department stated that the remaining 4,825 persons will get the assistance package deposited into their bank accounts in a period of 15 days, the court said, “Already enough time has been taken by the respondent No.4/Transport Department to release the assistance package as the scheme was announced in early April, 2020, and now, it is already end of May, 2020”. “There was enough time for the Department to have processed all the applications and released the funds to those who were eligible,” a Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad remarked. “As a last opportunity, we grant 10 days’ time to the respondent No.4/Transport Department to clear the balance list by depositing a sum of Rs. 5,000 each into bank accounts of the eligible non-chip PSV badge holders, whose grievance has been espoused in the present petition,” it ordered. The HC’s direction came while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by Nayee Soch Society seeking directions to the Department of Transport to provide a one-time financial benefit of Rs. 5,000 each to lifetime PSV badge holders. The plea stated that the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on April 2 announced a one-time relief assistance package of Rs. 5,000 each to autorickshaw, e-rickshaw and Gramin sewa vehicle drivers, as a compensation for the loss that they would suffer on account of the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-govt-gets-10-days-to-release-funds-to-auto-drivers/article31718905.ece
01 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Food, water & supplies: an auto driver’s journey to help migrants||Every time a Shramik Express is ready to leave the railway station here, Gurpreet and his “team” — comprising a teacher, an NGO worker and a Navy trainee among others — ensure that they reach on time with food, water, biscuits, masks and other supplies for the migrant workers and their families returning home. This has been a routine for Gurpreet, an autorickshaw driver, for almost a month now. Besides, the 46-year-old also transports food in his vehicle to a community centre in Sector 23A twice a day and helps distribute it to over 2,000 people, who gather from nearby slums and regularised colonies. Gurpreet is the sole breadwinner in a family of five, which includes his elderly parents. Loan for autorickshaw He has to pay a monthly loan installment of Rs. 2,050 for his autorickshaw. However, neither the financial constraint nor the fear of contracting the deadly virus has dampened his spirit. “This is what we have learnt from our parents, gurus and teachers. Initially, my parents were a little apprehensive about my safety. But I told them that Guru Gobind Singh sacrificed his four sons to protect our religion. We cannot help others if we fear for our own safety,” said Gurpreet, who came to settle in Gurugram’s Ganga Vihar two decades ago with his parents. As he could not afford to provide food to the needy due to financial constraints, he decided to do his bit by offering to transport the food in his autorickshaw free-of-cost and help distribute it. It all started when Gurpreet saw some people from NGOs distributing food to the poor at the Sector 23A community centre, but found that they were in need of manpower to transport and distribute it. “I offered to help. Soon, more like-minded people joined us and we became a team of sorts,” said Gurpreet. However, this act of philanthropy comes with a cost. Gurpreet needs to shell out around Rs. 7,000 per month for fuel in the times when his income is nil. He said he could do it because of support from his parents, his wife Manpreet Kaur and their son. Earlier, MCG would provide them food to be distributed, but after it discontinued the service a fortnight ago, Gurpreet and his team now source it from the Red Cross Society and a construction company. Though his area remained designated as a containment zone for over a month, he took special permissions from the district administration to continue to transport and distribute food. He, however, downplayed the recognition coming his way for his good work with the district administration and others tweeting about him. “I have been getting phone calls, SMSes and WhatsApp messages after the tweets, and it feels good to be appreciated,” he said. Rent trouble But Gurpreet felt the administration could do more for the migrants in terms of providing them food and ensuring that they were not troubled by their landlords for the rent. He also wished more people could come out and help the less privileged ones in these difficult times.  I have been getting phone calls, SMSes and WhatsApp messages after the tweets, and it feels good to be appreciated Gurpreet   Autorickshaw driver||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-water-supplies-an-auto-drivers-journey-to-help-migrants/article31718907.ece
01 June 2020||New Delhi,||Peak power demand expected to see a rise||Delhi saw a drastic drop in peak power demand since the COVID-19 outbreak led to a nationwide lockdown. However, with restrictions easing now, discoms expect demand to rise and even surpass last year’s figures in the month of July. Compared to April 2019, peak power at the same time this year clocked 3,362 MW — a reduction of nearly 41%. Similarly, peak power in May last stood at 6,461 MW while this year it has marked 5,464 MW. However, since the easing of lockdown restrictions, it has started to pick up. The electricity discoms said that various arrangements to forecast load and ensure adequate supply through power purchasing agreements have been made to ensure smooth supply. So far, discoms such as BSES and Tata Power-DDL have reported that the peak power on at least three days last week was marginally higher than the same time last year. The major drop in demand has come primarily from commercial and industrial establishments, which would typically account for maximum consumption during the day. At the current rate, with increased easing, discoms have projected peak power to reach 7,500 MW in July. To help ensure reliable supply, various arrangements have been made dealing with accurate demand forecasting as well as ensuring a robust distribution network, said a BSES official. He said BSES used the lockdown period to strengthen its infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/peak-power-demand-expected-to-see-a-rise/article31718917.ece
