02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China agree to hold more talks to resolve LAC stand-off||The third round of Corps Commander-level talks on Tuesday between India and China, the second one after the June 15 Galwan Valley clashes, yielded the promise of more talks at the military and diplomatic levels to disengage at the “face-off sites” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Twenty Indian soldiers were killed by Chinese troops in close-quarters combat in the Galwan Valley while Beijing has not given any official figure of its dead or wounded. Rajnath to visit Ladakh In another sign that India is now taking the Chinese build-up along the LAC seriously, it was made known that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would visit Ladakh on Friday. “Both sides have emphasised the need for an expeditious, phased and stepwise de-escalation as a priority,” an Indian military source said. “This is in keeping with the agreement between the External Affairs Minister and his Chinese counterpart during their conversation on June 17 that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and that both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely.” To achieve this, more meetings are expected both at the military and diplomatic levels to arrive at a mutually agreeable solution and to ensure peace and tranquillity along the LAC as per bilateral agreements and protocols, the source stated. The talks between Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang Military District, began around 11 a.m. at the border meeting point at Chushul on the Indian side and went on for more than 12 hours. The process of disengagement was complex, the source said. The meeting was long and held in a business-like manner, keeping in view the COVID-19 protocols. The discussions reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce the tensions along the LAC. Responding to questions on the talks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, “The two sides continue working towards implementing the consensus reached at the two earlier rounds of commander-level talks and made progress in effective measures by front-line troops to disengage and de-escalate the situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-agree-to-hold-more-talks-to-resolve-lac-stand-off/article31967044.ece
02 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||Sattankulam deaths: murder case filed, one held||Within hours of commencing the investigation, sleuths of the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Wednesday arrested one of the sub-inspectors of police Raghu Ganesh after altering the case of custodial death of trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks into a murder case under section Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The State investigating agency has named sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and constables Maharajan, Chelladurai, Murugan and Muthuraj as the accused. A hunt is on to nab all the other accused in the case that attracted the wrath of Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court as the traders died in judicial custody. Earlier, the Thoothukudi district police had registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of Code of Criminal Procedure. Inspector General of Police CB – CID Shankar told presspersons here before leaving for Sattankulam that his team would decide on registering a case of murder against the officers only after getting evidences. Mr. Shankar, who arrived here on Wednesday along with Superintendent of Police Vijayakumar, said the CB-CID police had commenced investigation in the morning. Sources in the CB-CID said over 10 teams were assisting DSP Anilkumar, who has been entrusted with the investigation. Over 40 personnel, including two more DSPs and 11 inspectors, have fanned out to different parts of the district. Earlier, Mr. Shankar and Mr. Vijayakumari held comprehensive discussions about the investigation at Sattankulam police station. Mr. Anilkumar, who met the family members of Jayaraj, gathered information pertaining to this case from them. As the CB-CID team, including Mr. Shankar and Mr. Vijayakumar, returned to Thoothukudi around 7 p.m., Deputy Inspector General of Police (Tirunevleli Range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Thoothukudi SP S. Jayakumar had discussion with it. Meanwhile, Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate-1 M.S. Bharathidasan continued his inquiry at Tiruchendur Government Guest House where he recorded the statements of a good number of witnesses, including the doctor of Sattankulam Government Hospital Vinila.  Special Correspondent from Chennai adds  The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in Delhi has issued notices to the Tamil Nadu Director General of Police and senior authorities calling for an inquest and relevant documents over multiple complaints received in connection with the custodial deaths of Jayaraj and J. Benicks. The reports must be submitted within six weeks. DMK MP Kanimozhi, R. Sureshbabu of Bengaluru and Commission's Special Monitor Maza Daruwala had submitted complaints about the incident to the NHRC. “The Commission has examined the contents of the complaints. It has also perused various media reports relating to this incident,” the NHRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sattankulam-deaths-murder-case-filed-1-held/article31967133.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||151 new cases, local transmission up||Local transmission of COVID-19 continues to grow at a steady pace in the State with 19 more persons, including six personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in Kannur district, contracting the disease from the community on Wednesday. The COVID cluster among CISF personnel in Kannur has grown big for the past few days. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who briefed media, said the State had to ready itself to face new challenges in the coming days as the number of patients seemed to be growing steadily, post lockdown. However, the number of cases of local transmission and the State’s death rate had not shown a significant spike, he said. Kerala reported 151 new cases on Wednesday, including one death, taking the death toll to 25. However, in what should be seen as a big balancing act which goes a long way in reducing the strain on the health system infrastructure, 132 persons have recovered from the disease. The number of active cases is thus stabilised at 2,130. The cumulative number of cases reported since the outbreak now stands at 4,593 and the total recoveries at 2,436. One more death was added to the State’s COVID tally when the test results of a 68-year-old security staff at Nadakkavu in Kozhikode district, who had committed suicide on June 27, turned out to be positive. Of the new cases, 86 cases were diagnosed in persons who had come from abroad and 45 cases in people who had come to the State from other parts of the country. The number of persons put on surveillance is 1,87,219, out of which 2,831 persons with mild COVID-like symptoms are isolated in various hospitals. The State has tested 6,564 samples in the last 24 hours. The number of hotspots is 124 now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/151-new-cases-local-transmission-up/article31967396.ece
02 July 2020||Pune,||5,537 new cases in State; tally crosses 1.80 lakh mark||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 5,537 new COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day surge yet, pushing the State’s tally to 1,80,298. This is the fifth time in less than a week that the State has recorded a daily spike of over 5,000 cases. Of the total cases, 79,075 are active ones. The State also recorded 198 more deaths, taking its toll to 8,053. Of these, 69 were reported in the last 48 hours, while the remaining 129 were from an earlier period, State Health Department officials said. With 1,487 new cases, Mumbai’s tally has touched 79,145, of which 29,715 are active. The city also recorded six more deaths, pushing its toll to 4,631.  State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “A total of 2,243 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally of recoveries to 93,154. The State’s recovery rate stands at 51.67%, while its case fatality rate is 4.47%.” Pune’s case load soared to 23,317 on Wednesday, with the district reporting a spike of 888 cases, its second-highest single-day spike so far. The district also recorded 28 more fatalities, taking its death toll to 783. Of the total cases, 10,989 are active, while 11,545 patients have been discharged so far. Aurangabad district in Marathwada reported its highest single-day surge of 323 cases, taking the district’s total tally to 5,651. Of them, 2,935 cases are active cases. Thane district reported another massive spike of 656 cases, taking its total cases to 15,301. No new deaths were recorded, keeping its toll at 71. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the infection curve continued to rise, with civic bodies recording a staggering number of positive cases. The Thane Municipal Corporation reported 407 new cases, pushing its case load to 10,329. It also recorded 22 deaths, taking its toll to 361. The spike in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation continued unabated, with 467 new cases bringing its cumulative tally to 7,970. Five more deaths took its toll to 94. Mira-Bhayandar reported 147 new cases, taking its tally to 3,739, while 29 more fatalities raised its death toll to 158. Navi Mumbai recorded 242 new cases, taking its total to 8,114, while Vasai-Virar reported 185 new cases, pushing its tally to 4,914. “Till date, of a total of 9,92,723 laboratory samples, 1,80,298 (18.16 %) have tested positive. Nearly 26,000 samples were tested across the State on Wednesday,” Dr. Awate said. He said 6,08,660 people across the State are in home quarantine and 38,396 are in institutional quarantine.  2,243 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the State’s recoveries to 93,154. The recovery rate stands at 51.67%, while the case fatality rate is 4.47%.  Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5537-new-cases-in-state-tally-crosses-180-lakh-mark/article31967521.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka asked to vacate govt. bungalow||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was on Wednesday asked to vacate the government accommodation allotted to her in 1997 within one month, as the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry cancelled the allotment. The Directorate of Estates under the Ministry wrote to the Congress general secretary, informing her that the allotment of the Type 6B house at 35, Lodhi Estate, had been cancelled as her Special Protection Group (SPG) cover that entitled her to such an accommodation had been withdrawn. Though the SPG protection had been revoked in November last year, the Ministry was informed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs only on Tuesday, an official said. “Consequent upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover by Ministry of Home Affairs, which does not have provision for allotment/retention of Government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of Type 6B house No. 35, Lodhi Estate, New Delhi, is hereby cancelled w.e.f. 01/07/2020. One month concessional period on the same rent i.e. upto 01.08.2020 is allowed as per rules,” the Directorate of Estates wrote. The letter said if the house was not vacated by August 1, “damage charges/penal rent” would be charged. According to an HUA Ministry official, Ms. Vadra had been allotted the accommodation on February 21, 1997 due to security concerns. SPG protection to Ms. Vadra, her mother, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and brother, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was revoked after an amendment to the SPG Act that restricted the security cover to the Prime Minister and his family, and former Prime Ministers and their kin for a period of five years after leaving office. Ms. Vadra had accumulated dues of Rs. 3,46,677 as of Tuesday and had been issued a notice to clear it on Wednesday evening. She made an online payment to clear the dues later in the evening, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priyanka-asked-to-vacate-govt-bungalow/article31967254.ece
02 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Home isolation suggested for asymptomatic patients||Amidst an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases that has raised concerns about the availability of hospital beds, medical experts have suggested to the State government to treat asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in home isolation to reduce the burden on hospitals. The advice was given by several experts at a meeting convened by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Wednesday to deliberate on the guidelines and strategy to be implemented in COVID-19 management in the State. As many as 1,272 new cases were reported on Wednesday in Karnataka — the highest single day count so far — taking the total to 16,514. After the more than two-hour discussion, the experts, comprising Ashish Sathapathy, WHO’s Regional Team Leader, and Manipal Hospitals Group Head Sudarshan Ballal, among others, told presspersons that putting asymptomatic patients in home isolation instead of admitting them in COVID-19 hospitals was a standard norm followed by various countries. They stated that nearly 60% of the COVID-19 patients who were admitted in the hospitals presently could have been kept under home isolation. Now they are spending their time in hospitals by working on laptops or watching their mobile phones, they said. They said that asymptomatic patients could be monitored remotely and advised the government to focus on treating people with serious conditions and comorbidities. They asked the government to use telemedicine extensively to treat more patients and stressed the need for training more doctors on using tele-ICU. They also suggested to the government that more manpower was required to work on field and for the contact tracing of patients. They also suggested to the government to ensure an uninterrupted supply of oxygen and new medicines to hospitals to cater to patients. The Chief Minister held a meeting of senior Ministers and bureaucrats on the issue later. A clear picture in this regard is expected to emerge by Thursday when he will hold one more round of meeting with Ministers and officials. New guidelines in this regard are expected to be issued either on Thursday or Friday. Those who attended the meeting, included Sharan Patil, Chairman of Sparsh Group of Hospitals, K. Bhujang Shetty, Chairman, Narayana Netralaya, Prabhudev N., former Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru University, Satish K.S. of Vikram Hospital, and Anjanappa, retired Director of KIMS, among other members of the task force and expert committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-isolation-suggested-for-asymptomatic-patients/article31967088.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi quits Chinese social media site||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official page on Chinese social media website Weibo went blank on Wednesday, with the removal of his photograph and all 115 posts made over the past five years. Mr. Modi initiated the process of exiting Weibo following the Union government’s decision to ban 59 Chinese apps. The government on Monday decided to impose the ban on the apps, including Weibo, citing threats to data security and India’s sovereignty. This marks a sudden end to Mr. Modi’s “Weibo diplomacy” that was launched with fanfare in 2015 as a means to directly communicate with the people of China before his first visit there as Prime Minister. His first message said, “Hello China! Looking forward to interacting with Chinese friends through Weibo.” Mr. Modi had 2.44 lakh followers. On Tuesday, Mr. Modi’s photograph was removed from his official page, and only two posts of the 115 he posted over the past five years remained. Both had photographs of Mr. Modi with Chinese President Xi Jinping. It took two days for the last posts to be removed. According to government officials handling the matter, the procedure to exit Weibo was “complex” for official and verified accounts and an official process was initiated. The officials said the process was delayed “for reasons best known” to the Chinese side. “Prime Minister Modi had 115 posts on Weibo. It was decided to manually delete them and after much effort, 113 posts were removed,” said a source. “There were two posts left and these are posts with photos of President Xi. On Weibo, it is difficult to remove posts with the photo of the Chinese President. Which is why two posts still remained,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-quits-chinese-social-media-site/article31967047.ece
02 July 2020||CUDDALORE,||Six workers killed, 17 injured in boiler blast at T.N. power plant||Six workers were killed and 17 injured — 11 of them critically — after a boiler exploded in Unit V of the thermal power station-II of the NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) in Neyveli on Wednesday. This was the second accident at the power station in less than two months. On May 7, a boiler explosion occurred in Unit VI, killing five persons, including two permanent staff members. The power station has seven units of 210 MW each, totalling 1,470 MW. Around 9.45 a.m., contract workers and permanent staff members were active at the unit when the accident occurred. Thick smoke billowed out of the plant. The deceased were identified as Silambarasan, 25, Arun Kumar, 25, Padmanabhan, 30, Ramanathan, 42, Venkatesa Perumal, 37, and Nagaraj, 30. The NLCIL said all of them were contract workers. Of the 17 injured, 16 were referred to Chennai with more than 40% burns. Unit tripped According to NLCIL sources, “Unit V shut down after it tripped on Tuesday night. The workers and engineering staff were attempting to revive it when a fire broke out in the boiler, resulting in the explosion.” Power generation in the unit was stalled after the accident. All other units in the station and other thermal power plants worked as usual. “Unit V of TPS-II, Neyveli, was under shutdown, and maintenance activities were under way when a fire broke out in the boiler, followed by an explosion. The explosion caused injuries to the NLCIL maintenance team, comprising one executive, two supervisors, three non-executive employees and 17 contract workmen,” NLCIL said in a statement. “Out of the 23 injured, six workmen engaged by a contractor succumbed to injuries on the spot. The other 17 injured were immediately rushed to the NLCIL hospital. Of them, 16 were referred to Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, for further higher specialty treatment, while one with minor injuries is being treated at the NLCIL hospital,” NLCIL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-workers-killed-17-injured-in-boiler-blast-at-tn-power-plant/article31967049.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Six more die, but slight dip in new cases in State||The State witnessed six more deaths and 657 new COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours. The number of new cases and deaths came down slightly compared to the past three days after the highest spike of 813 fresh cases and 12 deaths on June 28. The tally rose to 15, 252, zooming past the 15,000-mark. The number of discharges is also gradually increasing as most of those admitted weeks ago began recovering from the disease. In the past 24 hours, 477 patients have recovered, the highest in a day so far. As of Wednesday, a total of 6,988 patients recovered and over 1,500 of them have recovered in the past four days. The recovery rate is comparatively low at 45.8%. The number of active cases increased to 8,071. Three new deaths each were reported in Krishna and Kurnool districts. With a total of 66 deaths, Krishna district’s mortality rate is at 4.34% and with 68 deaths, Kurnool’s mortality rate is at 3.33% Anantapur continued to report huge number of cases with the latest single day spike of 118 new local cases. It is followed by Kurnool (90), East Godavari (80), Guntur (77), Kadapa (60), Krishna (52), Chittoor (35), Nellore (33), Prakasam (28), Visakhapatnam (21), West Godavari (15) and Vizianagaram (2). No new cases were reported in Srikakulam. Among imported cases, 39 are of people from other States and seven are of people from other countries.  New landmark in testing Kurnool district crossed the 2,000-mark as its tally of local cases reached 2,045. It is followed by Anantapur (1,689), Krishna (1,519), Guntur (1,426), East Godavari (1,209), Chittoor (1,089), West Godavari (1,010), Kadapa (1,000), Nellore (641), Visakhapatnam (563), Prakasam (398), Vizianagaram (161) and Srikakulam (63). Meanwhile, the number of samples tested in the State crossed the nine lakh-mark with 28, 239 tests conducted in the past 24 hours. So far, 9.18 lakh samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-die-but-slight-dip-in-new-cases-in-state/article31967034.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan flags off huge fleet of ambulances, mobile units||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday flagged off a huge fleet of 1,088 units of ‘108’ ambulances' and ‘104’ mobile medical units coinciding with National Doctor’s Day, at Benz Circle here. District in-charge Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy and Minister for Health, Medical and Family Welfare A. Kali Krishna Srinivas and officials of the Health Department also took part in the launch ceremony.  The line-up of the 432 ambulances (108) and 656 mobile medical units (104) on M.G. Road from Benz Circle towards the Police Control Room junction become a cynosure of eyes. Drone visuals of the ambulances rallying onto the Kanakadurga Varadhi from Benz Circle went viral on the Internet. According to Mr. Kali Krishna Srinivas, the government spent Rs. 201 crore on the new units and for the first time, 26 neo-natal ambulances are being made available as part of the 108 service. These ambulances are equipped with Sick Newborn Care Units, he added. Ideally, the ambulances are supposed to reach a caller’s area in less than 15 minutes in urban areas. In rural and Agency areas, the ambulances are supposed to reach the needy within 20 minutes and 25 minutes respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-doctors-day-jagan-flags-off-1088-strong-ambulance-fleet/article31966970.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS records over 1,000 cases again||The State has yet again witnessed more than 1,000 COVID-positive cases on a single day with the number of people testing positive reported at 1,018 on Wednesday. Seven more persons succumbed to the virus taking the total number of fatalities to 267. The total number of COVID cases is inching closer to the 18,000 mark with the number reaching 17,357 at the end of the day. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area continued to register high number of cases with 881 persons testing positive on Wednesday and the neighbouring Medchal and Rangareddy districts reported 36 and 33 cases respectively. After a gap, Mahabubnaar district reported 10 COVID cases. According to the bulletin released by the Health department, a total of 4,234 samples were collected during the day and the number of persons tested across the State till date rose to 92,797. Of the total samples collected, 3,216 were tested negative taking the total number of persons testing negative to 75,440. In all, 788 persons were discharged from different hospitals across the State on Wednesday. The total number of persons discharged from hospitals crossed the 8,000 mark and was registered at 8,082 by the end of the day. Meanwhile, Health Minister Eatala Rajender visited several hospitals in GHMC jurisdiction on Wednesday and inspected the facilities available there. He directed the officials concerned to ensure that adequate facilities were made available for effectively treating patients there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-records-over-1000-cases-again/article31967328.ece
02 July 2020||Kolkata,||Healthcare providers push home care for mild COVID-19 cases||With the number of COVID-19 cases climbing steadily in Kolkata even though the outbreak is still not as widespread as India’s other Metros, the city’s healthcare providers are encouraging patients with mild symptoms to seek treatment at home instead of burdening the hospitals. Several hospitals have also come up with attractive home-care packages for asymptomatic patients and those with mild to moderate symptoms. These hospitals will remote-monitor the patients and bring them over for admission if their condition worsens. The idea is to prevent overcrowding in hospitals in a situation when many doctors believe the worst is yet to come. At present, over 600 cases are being detected daily in West Bengal, and a chunk of them are reported from Kolkata. Attractive packages “Now that the government has allowed patients [with mild or moderate symptoms] to get treated at home, somebody has to step in to meet their needs,” said Dr. Rahul Jain, a top internal medicine specialist in the city, commenting on the advertisements put out by various hospitals offering home-care. “This is going to take the burden off the healthcare system because the number of cases is going to be huge, very huge,” Dr. Jain, who is attached to the Bellevue Clinic, told The Hindu . At the moment, he is himself monitoring the condition of about 15 patients who are getting treated at home. “The other day, a 20-year-old girl who had tested positive wanted to get admitted. When I asked her how high her fever was, she said 99 degrees. I told her to just stay home,” he said. This move should come as a big relief to people who, until now, did not fear the virus so much as they did the procedure that followed the detection. Now the hospitals make things look easier. Woodlands Hospital, for example, is offering various packages for COVID-19 patients seeking treatment from home: Rs. 4,500 for “home care”, Rs. 8,500 for “advanced home care” and Rs. 16,000 for “complete home care”. A virus-monitoring kit Medica Superspecialty Hospital, too, is offering home-care service that costs Rs. 500 a day — this is besides a COVID-monitoring kit that comes for Rs. 5,000. Bellevue Clinic, it is learned, is also coming up with a similar service. Such packages create a win-win situation. While the hospitals can make a decent income while preventing themselves from being overrun by the positive cases, patients can get treated in the comfort of their homes — without losing sight of their loved ones or shelling out a fortune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/healthcare-providers-push-home-care-for-mild-covid-19-cases/article31967462.ece
02 July 2020||Srinagar,||CRPF jawan, civilian killed in J&K’s Sopore||A CRPF jawan and a civilian were killed and three more jawans injured as militants hiding inside a mosque opened fire at a patrol team in north Kashmir’s Sopore on Wednesday. A CRPF spokesman said the militants, hiding in the attic of the mosque, fired at the personnel of the CRPF’s 179 Battalion around 7.30 a.m. “The personnel were de-boarding near Model Town Chowk, Sopore, Baramulla, for patrolling duties. Head constable Deep Chand later died of injuries,” the spokesman said. The injured personnel were identified as constables Bhoya Rajesh, Deepak Patil and Nilesh Chawde. The civilian was identified as Bashir Ahmed Khan, 65, from Srinagar’s HMT area. Khan was with his three-year-old grandson in a vehicle when bullets hit him. “The civilian was hit by bullets. There was no retaliation from the security forces. In fact, the police rescued the boy, who was near the grandfather’s body,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The family of Khan, however, blamed the security forces. “My father was brought down from the vehicle and shot dead by the security forces,” his daughter alleged. The picture of the boy sitting on his grandfather’s body at the site of the gunfight caused outrage in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crpf-jawan-civilian-killed-in-jks-sopore/article31967045.ece
02 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,||It’s 20-hour wait for tribal youth for SSLC result||Advancements in communication may have made the world a global village. But for the tribespeople living deep inside the State’s forests, the world has not changed much. Nineteen-year-old tribal student Subeesh G., who lives in the Nilambur forests, learned about his success in the SSLC examination 20 hours after Education Minister C. Ravindranath announced them on Tuesday afternoon. Arduous trek Officials of the Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK) had to undertake an arduous trek to reach the Plakkachola colony of the Paniya tribes, four km above Adyanpara at Chaliyar grama panchayat in the Nilambur forest, on Wednesday to inform Subeesh about his victory in the exams. Subeesh was one of the 12 “out-of-school” tribal students in the State who wrote the SSLC examinations with the support of the SSK this year. Extreme situations had made them drop out of schools the and SSK brought them back into studies by accommodating them at special care centres at Nilambur, Marayur, Adimali, Aralam farm, Kottoor, and Nilackal. “I wept when our repeated attempts to inform Subeesh about his results failed on Tuesday afternoon. Our men could finally reach him after 20 hours and congratulate him on his victory,” said SSK State programme officer S.S. Sindhu. She said the SSK had paid special attention to bring back the tribal students who had dropped out of schools. Drop out twice Subeesh dropped out of school twice and began helping his father collect honey from the wild. He remained elusive for four years until the SSK reached out to him during a tribal survey a couple of years ago. Subeesh has two mobile phone connections. But he does not have connectivity at his hamlet in the hilly forest. “We were not sure if he would be at home when our men climbed the hill with the good news for him,” said Ms. Sindhu. Eight more pass Apart from Subeesh, six tribal youths from an SSK hostel at Marayur and two each at Kottoor and Nilackal passed the SSLC examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/its-20-hour-wait-for-tribal-youth-for-sslc-result/article31967390.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||A tough fortnight ahead for Mumbai, MMR||To help arrest the COVID-19 pandemic by restricting people’s movement in the city, the Mumbai Police on Wednesday imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure till July 15, even as several municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region announced a complete lockdown starting Thursday or Friday. While the Thane Municipal Corporation and the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) had already announced a lockdown from July 2 to 12, the Panvel Municipal Corporation and the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation also announced a lockdown for 10 days. The lockdown will begin in Panvel from 9 p.m. on July 3, and at midnight on July 3 in Navi Mumbai. The Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) had already enforced a lockdown starting Wednesday that is scheduled to last till July 10. MBMC Commissioner Vijay Rathod said only home delivery of foodgrains, vegetables, fish, meat, bakery items will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 11 p.m., and milk and dairy items will be delivered at doorsteps between 5 a.m. and 10 a.m. KDMC Commissioner Dr. Vijay Suryawanshi said the lockdown will be in effect from 7 a.m. on July 2 to 7 a.m. on July 12. In Thane, intercity and State-run buses, taxis and autorickshaws will not be allowed to operate. Only vehicles providing essential and emergency services will be permitted. Mumbai order In Mumbai city, all movement in the city for non-essential activities is prohibited from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. The order issued by Pranaya Ashok, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), prohibits “the presence or movement of one or more persons in public, including religious places, or any gathering, subject to certain conditions” and “any person contravening this order shall be punishable under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.” “If such disobedience causes or tends to cause danger to human life, health or safety, or causes or tends to cause a riot or affray, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or fine which may extend to Rs. 1,000, or both,” the order added. All movement of people is restricted from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. except for emergency services, government or semi-government agencies and officials on duty. Exemptions Establishments providing services like food, vegetables, milk, ration and groceries; hospitals, medicines, pharma, pathology, medicine/nursing colleges; telephone and internet services; electricity, petroleum, oil and energy-related services; banking, stock exchange, clearing operations, depositories, stock brokers and SEBI-registered participants working through organisations; IT and related services; media; post; services providing home delivery of food and essential services; e-commerce activity; drinking water supply and sanitation; godowns and warehouses; and trucks carrying essential services are also exempted from the order.  (With additional inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-tough-fortnight-ahead-for-mumbai-mmr/article31967523.ece
02 July 2020||Tiruppur,||‘Kanimozhi politicising Sattankulam deaths’||Tamil Nadu BJP President L. Murugan on Wednesday alleged that DMK MP Kanimozhi is politicising the Sattankulam custodial deaths while she did not attend the funeral of deceased Indian Army soldier K. Palani in Ramanathapuram district. Speaking to mediapersons in Tiruppur, he said Ms. Kanimozhi was meeting the kin of P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks, the father-son duo who died in police custody, along with “other organisations” in Sattankulam. “This issue must not be politicised,” he said, adding that policemen involved in this case must be punished. The opposition must provide constructive criticism, Mr. Murugan said. Regarding the recent ban on 59 mobile applications by the Centre, he said all BJP members had “taken a vow” to not use Chinese products. This step was taken after the Central government analysed the issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanimozhi-politicising-sattankulam-deaths/article31967184.ece
02 July 2020||G.V.R. Subba Rao,||Ration sugar, red gram prices set to skyrocket||Sugar and red gram being supplied to white ration cardholders in the State are set to become dearer with the government reportedly making it clear that it will not be possible to continue the subsidy on these two essential commodities. It has asked the Civil Supplies Department to work out the mechanism “independently.” The price of red gram supplied to cardholders will go up to Rs. 67 per kg from the existing Rs. 40 per kg. Same will be the case with sugar whose price will shoot up to Rs. 34 per kg from the existing Rs. 20 per kg. Their prices will go up further if the trends in the open market were to be taken into account, sources say. There are over 1.47 crore white ration cardholders in the State. The revision, however, is not applicable to Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cardholders who number about 1.60 lakh. They continue to get sugar at Rs. 16 a kg and red gram at Rs. 20 per kg as the Central government bears the subsidy burden. “The government asked us to explore the available options. In a nutshell, we were told that it would not be possible to extend the subsidy,” said a senior official who did not want to be quoted.  Regular tracking The situation is reviewed every quarter, and the prices of red gram and sugar may come down if the supplies improve. Sugar prices keep fluctuating, but as red gram is procured from Markfed or Nafed, its price is unlikely to change significantly. Last year, the government paid Rs. 51 per kg and Rs. 48 per kg to Markfed and Nafed respectively, the official said. The government reviewed the sugar and red gram prices and decided to revise them in keeping with the trend in the open market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ration-sugar-red-gram-prices-set-to-skyrocket/article31967040.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Rajini flays custodial deaths||After being criticised for not condemning the Sattankulam custodial deaths of P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks in Thoothukudi, actor Rajinikanth on Wednesday said those responsible should be held accountable. In a social media post, the actor said he was shocked at the incidents that have unfolded after the deaths of the father and son due to police brutality came to light. “After killing the father and son by torturing them and facing severe opposition, the way some police officers have spoken to the magistrate is shocking,” he said. “All those responsible should be punished and they should not be allowed to walk free,” he said. Previously in 2018, Mr. Rajinikanth faced severe criticism for making comments that seemed to favour action taken on those protesting against the Sterlite Copper Plant in Thoothukudi, where 13 people were killed, when the police opened fire. While his fans hashtagged his post, the actor’s decision to accompany his statement with a photograph where he is seen “angry” led to snarky comments and trolling by his critics on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajini-condemns-sattankulam-custodial-deaths/article31967185.ece
02 July 2020||Madurai,||‘Herbal mix has anti-viral effect’||The State government has informed the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) that the herbal concoction prepared by a Madurai-based Siddha doctor has been sent to the Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha (CCRAS), New Delhi, after it was found that the formula may have an anti-viral effect. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Subramanian, who was previously the Medical Officer of the Siddha dispensary at the High Court Bench. In his petition, the Madurai-based Siddha doctor had sought a direction to the Ministry of Ayush to test his herbal concoction and see if it could be used as a cure for COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi had directed the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy, Chennai, to constitute a committee of experts to test the herbal concoction called ‘IMPRO.’ If the medicine was found to be efficacious, it may be referred to CCRAS, the court had directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/herbal-mix-has-anti-viral-effect/article31967180.ece
02 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||2 shops sealed in Lucknow in anti-CAA cases||“My mind is not working anymore. They have snatched my rozi-roti ,” said a distraught Mahenoor Chaudhary, whose scrap store in Lucknow was sealed by the administration under its drive to recover the damages to property during anti-CAA protests last December. In a first such step, the Lucknow administration se-aled two shops on Tuesday, the other being a garment store whose assistant manager is among the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-shops-sealed-in-lucknow-in-anti-caa-cases/article31967255.ece
02 July 2020||Kolkata,||Doctor’s day brings Left, Cong. together||Former West Bengal chief minister and legendary doctor Bidhan Chandra Roy’s birth anniversary was observed as National Doctors Day across the country. In West Bengal, however, it came as an opportunity for the Left parties and Congress to come together and cement their electoral understanding. Leaders of the Left parties went to Bidhan Bhavan, the headquarters of the State Congress Committee, in central Kolkata, and offered tributes to the freedom fighter and Congress leader. The Left parties and Congress have fought 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2016 Assembly polls under an electoral understanding. The move by Left leadership to pay tributes to Dr. Roy is seen as an attempt to further cement the electoral alliance ahead of 2021 State Assembly polls. Sujan Chakraborty, MLA, Communist Party of India (Marxist); Manoj Bandyopadhyay, leader, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP); and Naren Chatterjee, All India Forward Bloc, were among the leaders who came to Bidhan Bhawan and shared stage with the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-day-brings-left-cong-together/article31967459.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Field work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/field-work/article31967090.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pak. increases troops at LoC’||Pakistan has increased troop deployment along the Line of Control (LoC), with the numbers exceeding that during the Balakot air strike last year. There has been an increase by up to two divisions, or about 20,000 troops, an Indian military source said. Pakistani radars along the LoC were also fully active, the source added. The Skardu air base in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir has also been activated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pak-increases-troops-at-loc/article31967033.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST revenues plunge 41% in first quarter||Goods and Services Tax collections for the April to June quarter stood at Rs. 1.86 lakh crore, a 41% drop in comparison to the Rs. 3.14 lakh crore collected in the same period last year. In the first clear indication of the COVID-19 impact on government revenues, the monthly GST collections data, released by the Finance Ministry for the first time since March, show that revenues plunged during the lockdown. However, the June collections were more robust. Tax filing “The revenues during the financial year have been impacted due to COVID-19, firstly due to the economic impact of the pandemic and secondly due to the relaxations given by the government in filing of returns and payment of taxes due to the pandemic,” said an official statement.  The Ministry had eased tax filing deadlines due to the lockdown, allowing businesses to file their March, April and May returns by the end of June. GST collections for April crashed 72% to just Rs. 32,294 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-revenues-plunge-41-in-first-quarter/article31967042.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||State to acquire private vehicles to ferry patients||To tackle the shortage of ambulances in the State, the Maharashtra government has decided to acquire private ambulances and vehicles to transport COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms. “Wherever needed, ambulances with private hospitals and organisations, and if required vehicles with private suppliers can be acquired,” said a government resolution issued on Wednesday. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the government had received several complaints of private ambulances overcharging COVID-19 patients. “The acquired private ambulances and vehicles will have fixed rates and will be available 24x7,” he said. Municipal commissioners and district collectors will oversee the process, while the transport authority will fix the rates based on rent and kilometres travelled. The ambulances will be acquired along with drivers and fuel expenditure. If drivers are unavailable, they can be hired on a monthly basis, or roped in from State Transport depots, rental agencies, and civic bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-acquire-private-vehicles-to-ferry-patients/article31967522.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||No room for complacency in COVID fight: Kejriwal||The COVID-19 situation in the Capital seems to have improved over the past few days, but given the unpredictability factor, there is no room for complacency, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-room-for-complacency-in-covid-fight-kejriwal/article31967257.ece
02 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Malls open, bus service resumes in Gurugram||Shopping malls in Gurugram opened to lukewarm response on Wednesday. “Gurugaman”, the city bus service, resumed operations on two routes — Basai Chowk-HUDA City Centre (Mudrika) and Gurugram bus stand to Sohna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malls-open-bus-service-resumes-in-gurugram/article31967258.ece
02 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||7 more dead in Assam floods, toll goes up to 57||The flood situation in Assam improved marginally on Wednesday, but left seven people dead, taking the death toll to 57 since May 22. Officials said six people drowned — three in Barpeta, one each in Dhubri, Nagaon and Nalbari — and a man was electrocuted in Cachar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-more-dead-in-assam-floods-toll-goes-up-to-57/article31967259.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||nearby||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article31967324.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,||DKS to take charge in virtual ceremony||The online ceremony (‘Pratijna Dina’) of D.K. Shivakumar taking over as KPCC president has been arranged at the conference hall of the party’s new building in Bengaluru. Only a few senior leaders of the party have been invited to the function. As public gatherings are banned in view of the lockdown, Mr. Shivakumar has decided to take charge at a virtual public meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dks-to-take-charge-in-virtual-ceremony/article31967093.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Show-cause notice issued to 9 hospitals||The State government on Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to nine hospitals, including one government facility, for allegedly refusing treatment to a 52-year-old garment trader who battled breathlessness as several hospitals denied him treatment on Saturday. He subsequently died in front of another hospital. His COVID-19 test report returned positive on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/show-cause-notice-issued-to-9-hospitals/article31967092.ece
02 July 2020||Belagavi,||Police station sealed||Officials have sealed the police station in Athani as it was visited by a COVID-19 positive person on June 25. The 32-year-old IT engineer had gone there to register a complaint about missing wife. The five police personnel who were present are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-station-sealed/article31967302.ece
02 July 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi district records third COVID-19 death||A 74-year-old who had returned from Bengaluru and had developed breathing problems on June 21 died in Belagavi on Wednesday. He had visited a private clinic for treatment and was referred to the designated hospital. His throat swab samples were collected on Tuesday, but he died on Wednesday, before the results could arrive. This is the third COVID-19 death in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-district-records-third-covid-19-death/article31967303.ece
02 July 2020||Dharwad,||35 new cases in Dharwad||Dharwad district recorded 35 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. This is the highest number of cases in a day in the district. The new cases included three aged five and three aged seven.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/35-new-cases-in-dharwad/article31967304.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,||Chennai’s COVID-19 tally tops 60,000||Tamil Nadu recorded 3,882 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 63 fatalities on Wednesday as the overall case tally rose to 94,049. As many as 2,852 patients were discharged from hospitals. Of the fresh cases, 2,182 were in Chennai, which took the city’s tally past the 60,000-mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennais-covid-19-tally-tops-60000/article31967135.ece
02 July 2020||Erode,||Minister flags issue in releasing Class XII results||Tamil Nadu School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said there was a problem with the publication of the Class XII board exam results as out of the 34,652 students who were unable to take the test on March 24, only 718 had expressed their willingness to do so now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-flags-issue-in-releasing-class-xii-results/article31967136.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,||Health workers yet to get special pay||Three months after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced one-month’s special pay for healthcare providers/workers on COVID-19 duty, none of them have received the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-workers-yet-to-get-special-pay/article31967137.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Migrant foodgrain scheme reached less than 15% of 8 crore target||The scheme to provide free rations to eight crore migrants under the Aatmanirbhar package reached less than 15% of its target beneficiaries, according to data provided by the Food Ministry on Wednesday. Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Telangana had 0% distribution, and seven States had less than 1%. The scheme was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in mid-May to support migrant workers without ration cards, but the Centre had left it to the States to identify such people. Overall, foodgrains were distributed to 1.21 crore people in May, 15% of the estimated eight crore beneficiaries. In June, less than 93 lakh people, approximately 11.6%, received rations. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension till November of the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), originally meant to provide additional free foodgrains and pulses to all ration card-holders from April to May. However, the Aatmanirbhar food package, which was meant to provide free foodgrains to migrants and those without ration cards in May and June, was not extended. The State governments have not distributed the full component of food allocated under the Aatmanirbhar package, as they did not have that many migrants in need, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan told presspersons on Wednesday at a video press conference. The Centre had been generous in its initial estimate of eight crore, he added. In May, the Finance Minister had said the eight crore estimate had been reached by adding estimates provided by the State governments of people in migrant camps and clusters. Telangana lifted its entire allocation of grain under the Aatmanirbhar scheme from the Central pool, but did not distribute it to any beneficiary at all. Andhra Pradesh distributed grain to 600 people in May and 800 in June. Gujarat distributed grain to just over 4,500 in May (0.1% of its target) and none in June. Jharkhand and Odisha both distributed less than 0.5% of their targets. On the other end of the scale, Rajasthan distributed grain to more than 42 lakh people each month, 95% of its estimated target. Himachal Pradesh and Haryana distributed more than 50% of their targets, while Punjab, Delhi, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh all crossed the 30% mark.  ‘Liberal estimate’ “States have communicated in writing, as well as during weekly reviews, the estimated number of migrants in their States, identified through de-duplication of Aadhaar,” said Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey, noting that the scheme had not been extended due to lack of demand from the States. “It turns out that 8 crore was a liberal estimate. So far, 2.13 crore beneficiaries have been covered, but the migrant situation is a dynamic one.” That figure includes beneficiaries covered in May and June; there is no data on the level of overlap, that is, how many individuals received grain in both months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-foodgrain-scheme-reached-less-than-15-of-8-crore-target/article31967000.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Convalescent plasma for those not responding to steroids: govt.||Convalescent plasma may be considered for COVID-19 patients with moderate symptoms whose condition is not improving (oxygen requirement is progressively increasing) despite the use of steroids, said an advisory issued by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (Biological Division), here on Wednesday. Last week, the Health Ministry released guidelines on the clinical management protocol of COVID-19 indicating certain therapies for use as investigational therapies, in which convalescent plasma by plasmapheresis has been shown as “off label” in COVID-19 patients. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has said that special prerequisites while considering convalescent plasma include ABO compatibility and cross-matching of the donor plasma. The recipient should be closely monitored for several hours post transfusion for any transfusion-related adverse events and use should be avoided in patients with IgA deficiency or immunoglobulin allergy. The dose is variable ranging from 4 ml/kg to 13 ml/kg (usually 200-ml single dose given slowly over not less than two hours), it added. BiPAP ventilators Meanwhile, responding to allegations that the Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) mode is being available in the ventilators supplied by the Central government, the Health Ministry on Wednesday said the machines supplied to the States and Union Territories, including Delhi, were meant for ICUs. “The technical specifications for these COVID ventilators have been laid down by a technical committee of domain knowledge experts headed by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS), against which the ventilators have been procured and supplied. The ventilators procured and supplied comply with these specifications,” the Ministry said in a release. It added that ventilator models BEL and AgVa supplied to the States and Union Territories were complying with the requirements as per the specifications laid down by the technical committee. “These cost-effective, Made-in-India ventilators have BiPAP mode and other such modes as have been prescribed in the technical specifications. The ventilators are being supplied along with user manuals and feedback forms which must be referred to for clarity,” said the Ministry. Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday released the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines Handbook and Prospectus for Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS) of the National Board of Examinations (NBE).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/convalescent-plasma-for-those-not-responding-to-steroids-govt/article31967017.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||More ‘private trains’ soon on tracks||The Railways on Wednesday kick-started the process to allow private players to operate certain trains on its network by inviting Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for operation of passenger train services on over 100 routes with 150 modern trains. The Ministry of Railways said this is the first initiative for private investment in running passenger trains over the Railways network, and will attract investments of about Rs. 30,000 crore. Minimum 16 coaches “Ministry of Railways has invited RFQ for private participation for operation of passenger train services over 109 Origin Destination (OD) pairs of routes through introduction of 151 modern Trains... Each Train shall have a minimum of 16 coaches,” the national transporter said in a statement. It added that the objective of the initiative was to introduce modern technology rolling stock with reduced maintenance, reduce transit time, boost job creation, provide enhanced safety, provide world class travel experience to passengers, and also reduce demand supply deficit in the passenger transportation sector. The Delhi-Lucknow Tejas is the first train that is not operated by the Indian Railways, as Railways geared up to allow private train operators. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), which is a public sector undertaking, was entrusted with running the train, in addition to the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas and the Kashi Mahakal Express (between Varanasi and Indore). The Railways said “majority” of trains will be manufactured in India and the private entity will be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains, which will be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. “There would be a substantial reduction in journey time. The running time taken by a train will be comparable to or faster than the fastest train of Indian Railways operating in the respective route,” the Railways said. Bidding process The “Concession Period” for the project will be 35 years, and the private entity will pay to Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption, and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process. These trains will be operated by drivers and guards of the Railways. “The operation of the trains by the private entity shall conform to the key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains, etc.,” it said. With traffic earnings dropping by a whopping 58% in the pandemic scenario, the Railways, as part of an elaborate cost-cutting plan, has decided to allow sponsorship of trains and stations. “Sponsorship with suitable branding of trains/stations and use of CSR for cleaning activity may be explored for resultant savings in expenditure. If NGOs want to adopt stations for cleaning activity, it may be permitted by Divisional Railway Managers with the condition that it should result in savings…suitable display of their name, logo. etc may be allowed similar to that permitted in the CSR policy,” a Railways advisory said. A couple of days ago, an advisory was sent to General Managers of all Zonal Railways to review the cost of housekeeping of trains and stations. (With inputs from    S. Vijay Kumar, Chennai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-private-trains-soon-on-tracks/article31967030.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Bengaluru trying to trace source of 735 infections||Local transmission of COVID-19 continued to grow at a steady pace in Kerala with 19 more persons, including six personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force in Kannur district contracting the disease from the community. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who briefed the media, said that the State had to prepare to face new challenges, as the number of COVID-19 patients seemed to be growing post lockdown. However, the number of cases of local transmission and the State’s death rate had not shown a significant spike, he said. Kerala reported 151 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, including one death, taking the State’s toll to 25. However, 132 persons were also reported to have recovered and were discharged from hospitals on the same day. The number of active cases was 2,130. The cumulative cases in the State since the outbreak began stood at 4,593, and the total recoveries at 2,436. One more death, a 68-year-old security staff at Nadakkavu in Kozhikode district, who had taken his own life on June 27, turned out to be positive on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 86 were persons who had come from abroad and 45 from other States. The number of hot spots in the State as on Wednesday was 124. Andhra Pradesh witnessed six more deaths and 657 new COVID-19 cases. The tally rose to 15,252. In the past day, 477 patients recovered, the highest number in a day. As of Wednesday 6,988 patients had recovered, over 1,500 in the past four days. The recovery rate was ‘low’ at 45.8%. Active cases rose to 8,071. Three new deaths each were reported in Krishna and Kurnool districts. Anantapur continued to report huge number of cases with the latest spike of 118 local cases. It was followed by Kurnool (90), East Godavari (80), Guntur (77), Kadapa (60) and Krishna (52). Among imported cases, 39 were of people from other States and seven from other countries. T.N. reports 3,882 cases Tamil Nadu added 3,882 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s overall tally to 94,049. The State reported 63 more deaths and another 2,852 patients were discharged from hospitals. Of the fresh cases, 2,182 were in Chennai; the city recorded 2,000-plus cases for the third consecutive day. With this, the city’s tally went past 60,000, while the cases continued to surge in many other districts. Madurai reported 297 cases and overall case count of 2,858. Chengalpattu recorded 226 new cases, while Salem followed with 162 cases. Tiruvallur had 147 cases, and Ramanathapuram recorded 100 cases. As on date, the State has a total of 39,856 active cases. While a total of 52,926 persons were discharged from hospitals till date, the toll rose at 1,264. The 63 fatalities — 37 in government and 26 in private hospitals — had occurred from June 25 to July 1.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-trying-to-trace-source-of-735-infections/article31966990.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lift curbs on testing, says Health Ministry||Test-track-treat is the way forward to containing the novel coronavirus and saving lives, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. It advised the States and the Union Territories to allow all medical practitioners to prescribe the COVID-19 test for any individual meeting the conditions or testing as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Ministry said some States and Union Territories mandated a prescription from a government doctor for an individual to undergo the COVID-19 test. “In view of the increased load on government healthcare facilities, this mandatory requirement may at times pose an impediment to an individual to get tested and lead to unnecessary delays. At this juncture, it is absolutely necessary to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe COVID test to any individual fulfilling the criteria or testing as per ICMR guidelines,” it said in its communication. It said the ICMR recommends that laboratories be free to test any individual in accordance with its guidelines, and the State authorities must not restrict any individual from getting tested. The Ministry noted that test-track-treat is the key strategy for early detection and containment. “It is important to augment testing for COVID in all parts of the country... To ramp up testing in the country, the ICMR has so far approved a total of 1,049 public and private labs... Of these, 761 are in the public sector and 288 are in the private sector. However, it has observed that in some States and Union Territories, the capacity utilisation of the testing labs, particularly in the private sector, is grossly sub-optimal. It is strongly advised that steps be taken to ensure full capacity utilisation for COVID-19 testing,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lift-curbs-on-testing-says-health-ministry/article31967007.ece
02 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Seven more dead in Assam floods||The flood situation in Assam improved marginally on Wednesday, but left seven people dead, taking the death toll to 57 since May 22. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said six people drowned — three in Barpeta district and one each in Dhubri, Nagaon and Nalbari — and a 50-year-old man was electrocuted following a landslip in Cachar district. So far, 33 people had either drowned or been washed away, while landslips claimed 24 lives. “The situation, however, has improved a little with the number of affected villages and localities decreasing from 2,235 to 2,197 across 21 districts. But the number of flood-affected people has increased by about 20,000 to reach 14.95 lakh,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. “There are fewer people in the relief camps too,” she added. Relief camps From 25,461 who had taken shelter across 265 relief camps on Tuesday, the number fell to 15,289 in 109 camps on Wednesday. The deluge triggered by heavy rain has affected crops on more than 87,018 hectares and 20.33 lakh domesticated animals and poultry. A few rivers have subsided after two consecutive days of sunshine, but the Brahmaputra and three of its tributaries were flowing above the danger level at a few stretches. The overflowing rivers breached embankments at several places and damaged vital roads and bridges, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-more-dead-in-assam-floods/article31967023.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka asked to vacate government accommodation||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was on Wednesday asked to vacate the government accommodation allotted to her in 1997 within one month, as the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry cancelled the allotment. The Directorate of Estates under the Ministry wrote to the Congress general secretary informing her that the allotment of the Type 6B house at 35 Lodhi Estate, had been cancelled as her Special Protection Group (SPG) cover that entitled her to such an accommodation had been withdrawn. SPG protection Though the SPG protection had been revoked in November last year, the Ministry was informed of it by the Union Home Ministry only on Tuesday, an official said. “Consequent upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover by Ministry of Home Affairs, which does not have provision for allotment/retention of government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of Type 6B house No. 35, Lodhi Estate, New Delhi, is hereby cancelled w.e.f. 01/07/2020. One month concessional period on the same rent i.e. upto 01.08.2020 is allowed as per rules,” the Directorate of Estates wrote. The letter said if the house was not vacated by August 1, “damage charges/penal rent” would be charged. According to a Housing Ministry official, Ms. Vadra had been allotted the accommodation on February 21, 1997 due to security concerns. SPG protection to Ms. Vadra, her mother, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and brother, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, was revoked after an amendment to the SPG Act that restricted SPG cover to the Prime Minister and his family, and former Prime Ministers and their kin for a period of five years after leaving office. Being Lok Sabha members, the Congress president and also Mr. Gandhi are entitled to government accommodation, the official said. Ms. Vadra had accumulated dues of Rs. 3,46,677 as on Tuesday and had been issued a notice to clear it on Wednesday evening. She made an online payment to clear the dues later in the evening, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-asked-to-vacate-government-accommodation/article31966997.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Centre designates 9 individuals as terrorists||The Union Home Ministry designated nine more individuals as “terrorists” under the amended anti-terror law that was passed by Parliament last year. The nine persons declared terrorists are linked to separatist Khalistani groups that seek to establish a separate country for the Sikhs. They are Wadhawa Singh Babbar, Pakistan-based chief of terrorist organisation Babbar Khalsa International; Lakhbir Singh, based in Pakistan and chief of terrorist organisation International Sikh Youth Federation; Ranjeet Singh, based in Pakistan and chief of terrorist outfit Khalistan Zindabad Force; Paramjit Singh, based in Pakistan and chief of the Khalistan Commando Force; Bhupinder Singh Bhinda from Germany, who is a key member of Khalistan Zindabad Force; Gurmeet Singh Bagga from Germany, also an important member of Khalistan Zindabad Force; Gurpatwant Singh Pannun from the U.S, a key member of the unlawful association called Sikh for Justice; Hardeep Singh Nijjar from Canada, who is the chief of the Khalistan Tiger Force; and Paramjit Singh from U.K., who heads the Babbar Khalsa International there. ‘From foreign soil’ “These [nine] individuals are involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and from foreign soil. They have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilising the country, by trying to revive militancy in Punjab through their anti-national activities and through their support to and involvement in the Khalistan Movement,” a statement issued by the Ministry said. The Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), enacted in 1967, was amended in 2004, 2008 and 2013. The 2004 amendment was to ban organisations for terrorist activities, under which 34 outfits, including the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad, were banned.  The UAPA, as amended in August last year, gave theHome Ministry the power to designate individuals as terrorists.  Earlier, in September 2019, the four individuals to be first designated as terrorists were Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Taiba’s Hafiz Saeed, his deputy Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, and underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, who planned and executed the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts.   Home Minister Amit Shah had said in Rajya Sabha on August 2 last year that “it was important to identify terrorists and not just organisations”. ‘In line with others’ The Opposition parties had raised concerns in Parliament that the law could be misused against political opponents and civil society activists. The designations are in alignment with laws in European Union (EU) countries, the U.S.A., China, Israel and even Pakistan and Sri Lanka, an MHA official had earlier said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-designates-9-individuals-as-terrorists/article31967003.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Governments managing perceptions of pandemic’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said governments were trying to “manage the perceptions” and give a sense that the COVID-19 pandemic “is not as bad as it is”. In a conversation with four Indian nurses working in New Zealand, Australia, the U.K. and India, Mr. Gandhi asserted that it was important to accept and face the problem to effectively combat it. Expressing his solidarity on the occasion of National Doctors Day, he called the front line health workers a “non-violent Army”. In the 30-minute conversation with Anu Ragnat (New Zealand), Narendra Singh (Australia), Sherlymol Puravady (U.K.), and Vipin Krishnan (AIIMS, Delhi), he asked about their experiences and the impact on their family lives after working in a COVID-19 environment. Sharing a conversation he had had with a doctor of a private hospital, Mr. Gandhi said that testing was not being allowed in many Delhi hospitals. “One of the doctors I was speaking to in a private hospital was telling me that it becomes impossible for them to work if they cannot test COVID-19 patients. If they don’t know if the patient has COVID or not, they don’t know where to put him,” he said. “Governments are trying to manage the perceptions, they are trying to give a sense that the problem is not as bad as it is. But I believe that we have to face the problem, so we should accept the problem, define the problem accurately and then fight the problem,” he added. Mr. Krishnan, who tested positive for COVID-19 and has now recovered, expressed concern over the low levels of testing in the face of rising cases, pay cuts faced by nurses in private hospitals and the non-payment of compensation announced by the Delhi government to health workers who died after contracting COVID-19. “Two nurses have died in Delhi... One X-ray technician. One retired doctor from AIIMS passed away and one serving person in the sanitation department... However, they are yet to receive the compensation of Rs. 1 crore announced by the Delhi government,” the AIIMS nurse said. Mr. Gandhi assured them that he would write a letter to the authorities concerned to expedite the compensation. Mr. Krishnan also requested Mr. Gandhi to take up the issue of risk allowance for nurses and doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governments-managing-perceptions-of-pandemic/article31967013.ece
02 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||CB-CID forms teams to look into custodial deaths in T.N.||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID), has begun investigation into the double death of trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks, who died after reported custodial torture at the Sattankulam police station. The agency has formed over 10 teams for simultaneous inquiry at different locations in the district and also to locate the police personnel involved in the crime. During an informal chat with reporters here before leaving for Sattankulam, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID Shankar said the CB-CID police would decide on registering a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the police officers involved only after getting credible evidences. Investigation begins Mr. Shankar, who arrived here on Wednesday along with Superintendent of Police Vijayakumar, said the CB-CID had formally commenced the investigation into the custodial deaths. It was only after getting clinching evidence against the police personnel involved in this incident, will the case, now registered under Section 174 of IPC (suspicious death), be altered into a case of murder under Section 302. Sources in the CB-CID said DSP Anilkumar and a team of 40 personnel including two more DSPs and 11 inspectors began the investigation. Mr. Shankar and Mr. Vijayakumar held comprehensive discussions about the investigation at the Sattankulam police station. Mr. Anilkumar, who met the family members of Jayaraj, gathered information pertaining to the case from them.   “Since the case is likely to be altered into a case of murder under Section 302 of IPC following the observations Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh and four constables, all attached to the Sattankulam police station have gone underground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cb-cid-forms-teams-to-look-into-custodial-deaths-in-tn/article31967098.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC tells govt. to comply with orders on tackling COVID-19||Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued a slew of instructions afresh to the State government in COVID- related PIL petitions and directed the Chief Secretary and other top officials to appear before it on July 20 if the same were not complied with by July 17. Noting that the State government did not comply with its earlier directions in PIL pleas on the manner in which it was tackling COVID-19, the HC ‘hoped these orders’ would be enforced by the government. “Indeed, it is the fundamental duty of government to protect people from pandemic under Article 21 and Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in schedule IV of the Constitution,” the bench observed. “They may not be enforceable by law but the State cannot abdicate its constitutional obligations and abrogate its responsibilities towards its own people,” a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The bench asked the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretaries of Medical and Health, Municipal Administration and Urban Development and GHMC Commissioner to appear before the court on July 20 if the fresh directions were not adhered to. The new instructions include filing of affidavits by superintendents of all government hospitals giving details of their infrastructure and the safety gear and the number of PPE kits they were distributing to doctors and para-medic staff on a daily basis to tackle COVID-19. “This particular direction was given by this court 45 days ago but the State was not implementing the same,” the bench said. Observing that the government stopped providing crucial information about the extent of COVID spread, the bench ordered it to submit details of its ‘containment zone policy’ if there is any. “Reveal details of the clusters of containment areas if there is such list with the government,” it said.   “Provide details of the number of tests conducted on both symptomatic and asymptomatic persons and the number of positive cases,” the bench said. According to ICMR guidelines, asymptomatic direct and high risk contacts of an infected person should be tested between the fifth and 14th day of them coming into contact with the patient. It was not known whether such tests were being conducted. Citing media reports that a Central team visited Hyderabad in the backdrop of spike in COVID cases in the city, the bench said neither Advocate General B.S. Prasad nor Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao gave details of the findings of the team. The team also met the Chief Secretary. The bench directed the government to furnish findings of the Central team during their Hyderabad visit. Noting that the report filed by the government in response to a batch of nine PIL pleas was vague and withheld vital information from public, the bench said “ignorance is not bliss, it is an invitation to calamity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-tells-govt-to-comply-with-orders-on-tackling-covid-19/article31966968.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru/Ballari/Yadgir,||Now, outrage over Yadgir incident||A day after the mass burial of COVID-19 victims at Ballari in a disrespectful manner created outrage, another incident at Yadgir has also provoked public anger. A video that surfaced on Wednesday shows the body of a COVID-19 patient being dragged for over 200 metres before being buried in a trench in Yadgir district. The incident is said to have occurred after locals refused to allow the burial of the body of a 48-year-old from Honagera village in Yadgir district. Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput told The Hindu that the District Health Officer has been asked to conduct an enquiry and submit a report. He added that action would be initiated if they were found to have not followed protocol. Six suspended Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday that action had been initiated against those responsible for the Ballari incident and he would take measures to prevent the recurrence of such episodes. He pointed out that the Deputy Commissioner had already tendered an unconditional apology over the issue. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakhar said the six persons associated with the episode had been suspended. Authorities in Ballari have confirmed that it was the mortuary staff who had dragged all the bodies and dumped them in a large trench at a government graveyard on Guggarahatti Road on the outskirts of Ballari district.  Staff replaced Following the inquiry ordered under the Additional Deputy Commissioner, the Ballari district administration has disbanded the team involved in the act and replaced it by a new team trained under the Forensic Department at Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). The district administration expressed regret at the manner in which the bodies were handled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-outrage-over-yadgir-incident/article31966974.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Telugu man pulls off ‘Mission Impossible’||A pregnant was woman stuck in the USA without health insurance, another woman feared losing the visa status, a few had to attend emergencies back in India while some wanted to leave the US with the economy shattered and employment lost. All these people hailing from various parts of India had different problems but their singular desire was to leave the USA and reach their motherland but their efforts went in vain with flights cancelled and Vande Bharat mission unable to reach them.  Unexpected help However, help came from an unexpected quarter – the US India Solidarity Mission (USISM) formed with the sole objective of evacuating such people through a chartered flight. The flight carrying 250 passengers landed at Hyderabad recently after picking them up from different cities of the USA. And the mission was the idea of Washington-based Telugu entrepreneur, Puli Ravi, who decided to take up the unthinkable during the pandemic. “Biggest challenge was coordinating with three countries – USA, India and Qatar — and getting clearances from the embassies and international airports,” says Ravi Puli, who hails from a small village in Warangal district. He and his team of 30 people worked tirelessly over 21 days, interacting with passengers from across the USA. In fact, a family was stuck in Mexico and they were first brought to USA and put on the plane. He also ensured with the help of authorities that passengers like pregnant women and senior citizens were given free upgrade to business class for a convenient journey. Some of the passengers who landed in Hyderabad said it was a tough journey made easy by Mr. Ravi Puli and his team. An advocate-couple Raj and Surekha finally reached Hyderabad after their planned return in March had been cancelled with international flights grounded. Similar views were expressed by Neharika, a student from New York, and Jerry from Kerala, who returned with her family through the chartered flight. “Such a task is difficult even during normal times as it involves navigating through legal and bureaucratic clearances in multiple countries across the oceans. But it was done with the support of Indian embassy and Qatar officials,”said Ravi, who was a member of the delegation led by America’s first lady, Ivanka Trump, to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES) held in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telugu-man-pulls-off-mission-impossible/article31967382.ece
02 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Kerala village deploys robot nurses for patient care||Eraviperoor grama panchayat has once again shown its sagacity in the face of challenges. Two robot nurses named Asha — meaning hope — have been successfully deployed at a COVID-19 First-line Treatment Centre at the Thottackad Medical Centre at Eraviperoor. Panchayat vice-president N. Rajeev, the brain behind innovative ideas of the local body, told The Hindu that the panchayat wanted to ensure that all possible safety measures were available to the health workers posted at the hospital, especially at a time when Kerala is facing the threat of a community spread. “An ASHA [Accredited Social Health Activist] worker in the district testing positive for COVID-19 was what prompted the panchayat to explore new ways to ensure adequate protection to health-care workers at the hospital,’’ says Mr. Rajeev. A Tiruchirappalli-based IT company, Propeller Technologies, worked on technological modification of the two four-ft-tall robots. Sreekanth Parameswaran, medical officer at the centre, says the robots will take medicines, bedsheets, food, etc., weighing up to 8 kg, to each hospital room. The robots will also facilitate real-time interaction with patients for their family members even from a distance of 15 km, says Mr. Rajeev. Both the robots have been successfully tested, and cost Rs. 90,000 each. This is not the first time Eraviperoor is hitting the headlines. The village, located in Thiruvalla taluk, was the first grama panchayat in the country to receive the National Award for Public Administration in April 2015 and the first panchayat in the State to get ISO-9001 certification for its Primary Health Centre in August that year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-village-deploys-robot-nurses-for-patient-care/article31966980.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Postal ballot plan was discussed with parties: EC||The Election Commission of India said on Wednesday that political parties had been consulted on its decision to extend postal ballot to more categories of voters. The poll panel was responding to Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s criticism that it was in a hurry to extend postal ballot to electors over the age of 65. In a letter to the EC on Monday, Mr. Yechury had raised concerns at the lack of consultation before the EC decided to expand the postal ballot facility to electors over 65 and those infected with or suspected to have COVID-19 in the run-up to the Bihar Assembly elections. Along with its response, the EC sent Mr. Yechury the minutes of a meeting convened by the Bihar Chief Electoral Officer on June 26 that was attended by recognised political parties, including the CPI(M). The Representation of the People Act, 1951 provides for any person to be given the postal facility by the ECI in consultation with the government, it said. The ECI had recommended that three categories of electors – those 80 years and above, persons with disabilities, and essential services workers – be given the facility. This was notified by the government on October 22, 2019 and the ECI rolled it out as a pilot in seven constituencies in the Jharkhand elections last year. Apart from asking the Bihar CEO to hold consultations, the ECI also ordered that the number of electors in each polling station be limited to 1,000 and auxiliary stations created in the same location or vicinity to maintain social distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/postal-ballot-plan-was-discussed-with-parties-ec/article31966998.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No scientific reason to bar loved ones from last rites’||There was no scientific reason that loved ones could not attend the last rites of those who died of COVID-19, a group of eminent citizens said in an open letter and appeal to Indians on Wednesday. “In the midst of the pandemic, we are witnessing the immense silent tragedy of loved ones not being able to say goodbye to those they have lost,” it said. The letter said that while it was often impossible for family members to be present during the last moments of patients due to the highly infectious nature of COVID-19, there was no reason they could not bid them a dignified farewell. “It is deeply saddening that the fear and stigma around COVID-19 has caused families to abandon performing the last rites for their family members... It is critical for us to know that it is completely safe for the last rites of a loved one to be performed by family members and for them to have a respectful burial/cremation,” it said. The March 15 guidelines, issued by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, said the family members could see the face of the deceased before the last rites, and all rituals that don’t need contact are permitted. “There is indeed no scientific reason why people who have lost their loved ones to COVID-19 cannot see the face of their loved one before the last rites... Families can ensure that a smaller number of those closest to the person who died gather; that they wear masks and maintain physical distancing; that they try to avoid very old and very young people joining the last rite gatherings; if there is eating and drinking, this is done with separate (preferably disposable) utensils; and as far as possible, the gatherings are organised in the open rather than closed spaces,” it said. Among the signatories were Rajmohan Gandhi, Nayantara Sahgal, Romila Thapar, Sharmila Tagore, Vikram Patel, Shah Alam Khan and Sujatha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-scientific-reason-to-bar-loved-ones-from-last-rites/article31967009.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC allows minor rape victim to terminate pregnancy||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday allowed a 17-year-old rape victim to terminate her 25-week pregnancy, though a medical report had advised her against it. A Division Bench was hearing a petition filed by the victim through her father. At the time of filing of the petition, the girl was 23 weeks pregnant and was barred from seeking termination of pregnancy as she had crossed the 20-week ceiling under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. She needed a nod from the court to go ahead with the termination. The Bench noted that the girl had recently completed Class X from an English medium school. Though she and her father were informed about the medical board’s opinion, they expressed a desire to terminate the pregnancy in the interest of her future. In its 20-page order, the court directed that the blood sample and tissue sample of the foetus be preserved for carrying out medical tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-allows-minor-rape-victim-to-terminate-pregnancy/article31967020.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||I-Day event at Red Fort to be a less pompous affair this year||The COVID-19 impact will mean the annual Independence Day celebration at the city’s Red Fort will be a bit muted. Delhi police officers say that physical distancing measures will be strictly followed. “There will be limited chairs at ramparts on the Red Fort for VVIP guests, to follow physical distancing rules. The final decision over the entry of general public has to be taken at a meeting of all security agencies,” said a senior police officer. The annual event where children perform cultural programmes will not be a feature this year. Security cover The officer confirmed that the security of the Red Fort had been taken over by the Defence Ministry for the Independence Day event and the police would be managing only the outer ring of the security cover. “There will be lot of changes to adhere to social distancing rules,” added the officer. The officer said the event was likely to be restricted for the general public to maintain social distancing. Even at the security checkpoint, they were in the process of installing more electronic devices/ gadgets to avoid any kind of close contact during frisking. “More than 2,000 children from various schools used to perform and stand in national flag formation at the Red Fort ground. The event will either be limited to few students or cancelled,” the officer added. He said two grounds on each side of the Red Fort used to be opened for the general public but this year they were likely to remain closed. Security preparations have begun and installation of CCTV cameras has started. A senior officer from the Home Ministry will visit the Red Fort on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-day-event-at-red-fort-to-be-a-less-pompous-affair-this-year/article31967027.ece
02 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Malls open, buses ply in Gurugram||Shopping malls in the city opened to lukewarm response on Wednesday. Most of the shopkeepers spent the first day cleaning and setting up the stock, and registered nil to low sale. The manager of a women footwear store, “Vicinza”, at DLF Metropolitan Mall, Imran Miyan said there were hardly 10-12 visitors till afternoon and he did not register any sales. Mukesh, a manager at “Red Tape” store, said the shop had three entries and he sold only one pair of shoes. “Only those customers would visit who really want to shop,” he said. The manager of a gift shop, Prashant Kumar, said almost 20% of the stores were still closed and many had disputes over high rents. He said with a slump in business, the tenants had been seeking 40-50% reduction in the rent. “It is not financially viable to run stores at the previously high rents,” said Mr. Kumar. He added that the business would improve only after the corporate offices and the metro rail were open. Aman Bajaj, the owner of a music, movies and gaming store, “Music Festival”, said people were expected to throng the malls in large numbers since they had been stuck inside their houses for long. He had been informing the customers about the reopening of the store. Har Singh Rathaur, manager of Haldiram’s at Sahara Mall, said the seating capacity had been reduced and the menu was also cut short. “Gurugaman”, the city bus service run by the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited, resumed its operations on two routes — Basai Chowk-HUDA City Centre (Mudrika) and Gurugram Bus Stand to Sohna — on Wednesday. New routes New routes and more buses will be added in phased manner. Sixty-eight buses will ply on six routes from Thursday. The four new routes to be added are: 134 (IFFCO Chowk to IMT Manesar), 112D (Gurugram Bus Stand to Sec-56, Ghata), 116F (Rajesh Pilot Chowk to Railway Station) and 122 (Gurugram Bus Stand to Sikanderpur Metro). Buses would be sanitised prior to their running and abide by the Standard Operating Procedures, worked out by the GMCBL for drivers, conductors and passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malls-open-buses-ply-in-gurugram/article31967263.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||GST revenues plunge 41% in first quarter||By May, the contraction had narrowed to 38% in comparison to the previous year, with collections of Rs. 62,009 crore. June’s GST collections stood at Rs. 90,917 crore, only 9% lower than in June 2019. However, the Ministry noted that, “During the month of June, returns of February, March, and April 2020 have also been filed in addition to some returns of May 2020 since government has allowed a relaxed time schedule for filing of GST returns. Some returns of May 2020, which would have otherwise got filed in June 2020, will get filed during first few days of July 2020.” “The GST collections while in the first quarter have obviously witnessed a substantial dip because of the current pandemic, however, the increasing trend in June inclines to a recovery being in line soon,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at Ernst and Young India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-revenues-plunge-41-in-first-quarter/article31966984.ece
02 July 2020||Srinagar,||Hurriyat for dialogue among stakeholders||For the first time since the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year, the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-headed Hurriyat held a meeting in Srinagar and stressed peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue, while calling for dialogue among its stakeholders. The conglomerate’s executive members — Abdul Ghani Bhat, Bilal Lone and Masroor Abbas Ansari — held a meeting at the residence of former Hurriyat chairman Maulana Abbas Ansari, a Hurriyat spokesperson said. “The J&K dispute has to be resolved peacefully, as per the wishes and aspirations of the people of J&K. The resolution has to take place among its three stakeholders — India, Pakistan and the people of J&K. Dialogue, which the Hurriyat has advocated and has participated in, among its three stakeholders is the best alternative to resolve it,” said the spokesperson. He said the resolution of the Kashmir issue is the best guarantee for real peace and the subsequent prosperity of the subcontinent. There have been attempts to change the demographic character of J&K since 1947, he said, adding, “It was in August 2019 that the final nail in the coffin was hammered in this regard. Meanwhile, the spokesperson said Mr. Farooq could not attend the meeting “as he continued to be under arbitrary house arrest since August 2019”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hurriyat-for-dialogue-among-stakeholders/article31966993.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Varanasi weavers are mortgaging homes’||Weavers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, Varanasi, are being forced to mortgage their homes and jewels to sustain themselves, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Wednesday. “Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister at an event told the Prime Minister that lakhs of jobs are being provided in small and medium industries. But the reality is that weavers in the Prime Minister’s constituency and the pride of Varanasi are being forced to live by pledging their jewellery and houses. Their work has come to a standstill during the lockdown,” she said on Twitter. “The condition of small entrepreneurs and artisans is bad. Instead of propaganda, only a concrete financial package can pull them out of the crisis,” said the Congress in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, she said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s government was trying to cover up “massive unemployment” through advertisements.  Instead of propaganda, only a concrete financial package can pull them out of the crisis pRIYANKA Gandhi Vadra Congress General Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varanasi-weavers-are-mortgaging-homes/article31967005.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry reconstitutes Central Zoo Authority||The Environment Ministry has reconstituted the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to include an expert from the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi, and a molecular biologist. The CZA is a statutory body chaired by the Environment Minister and tasked with regulating zoos across the country. The authority lays down guidelines and prescribes rules under which animals may be transferred among zoos nationally and internationally. Apart from the chairman, it consists of 10 members and a member-secretary. Almost all of them are officials in the Environment Ministry and non-government experts are those who are wildlife conservationists or retired forest officers. In the new dispensation, that came into effect on Tuesday, Abhilash Khandekar, senior journalist and environmentalist, continues to be part of the new list of members. New faces include the Director, School of Planning and Architecture, P.S.N. Rao, and Senior Principal Scientist, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Karthikeyan Vasudevan. From June 1, the CZA has allowed zoos to take a call on opening them to visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-reconstitutes-central-zoo-authority/article31967011.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Centre’s view sought on e-commerce listings||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response from the Centre and major e-commerce companies, including Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal and Nykaa, on a petition seeking to display the name of the manufacturing country on products offered for sale on their websites. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the Consumer Affairs Ministry to respond to the petition filed by advocate Amit Shukla and posted the case for further hearing on July 22. Economic angle Mr. Shukla, in his petition, argued that the economy of the entire nation would suffer in the event e-commerce websites continued not to mention the manufacturing country or country of origin of products. The petition also stated that the Government e-Marketplace (GeM), a Special Purpose Vehicle under the Commerce Ministry to facilitate online procurement of goods required by Central and State governments, was notified on June 23 to make it mandatory for sellers to enter the country of origin while registering all new products on GeM. To this, the Bench asked, “What was the need for issuing a specific notification, that it is only applicable on GeM...why not Amazon etc.” Mr. Shukla said the answer to the Bench’s query would be best given by the government. Mr. Shukla said most -commerce entities and websites did not mention the country of origin of products offered for sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-view-sought-on-e-commerce-listings/article31967031.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NRI candidates seek NEET postponement||Parents of over 4,000 students based in West Asia who are taking the NEET-UG moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday for a direction either to allocate test centres in those countries or postpone it from July 26. They said the court should step in to save their children from being forced to travel to India to take the test amid the pandemic. The petition said the Medical Council of India (MCI) and the National Testing Agency (NTA) should wait till COVID-19 crisis ended to conduct the test for admission to the MBBS course in India. “Students are helpless to write the examination as international travel is banned to and from India. Assuming that they have seats on Vande Bharat Mission flights, the students will be exposed to COVID-19 risks as also they would have to undergo quarantine on their arrival in India. The duration in quarantine will go up to 21 days depending upon their destination of arrival. The above factors will add to the mental stress of the students, who, if no other alternative is available, will be forced to travel and take the exam,” said the parents, represented by advocates Haris Beeran and Pallavi Pratap. HC declines relief They approached the court after the Kerala High Court declined them relief on June 30, saying a court cannot dictate terms for conduct of exams to expert bodies such as the MCI and the NTA.  The petition said the NTA had stated in the High Court that it was ready to conduct the test online. The MCI rejected the suggestion in a communication on May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nri-candidates-seek-neet-postponement/article31967032.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala raising half-baked charges: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday accused Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of thwarting the developmental aspirations of the State by raising half-baked conspiracy theories against the government. He said Mr. Chennithala seemed to work to the advantage of vested interests who wanted to snatch away investment from Kerala and take it elsewhere. He accused Mr. Chennithala of cherry-picking information from government files to falsely accuse the administration of having conspired with a Swiss firm to manufacture electric buses in the State. Mr. Chennithala had claimed that the Chief Secretary and the Finance Secretary had stopped the government’s bid to favour the foreign firm illegally. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Chennithala had chosen and taken information that suited his political ends. He had ignored the entry made by the Chief Minister in the file who had directed the Secretaries to examine whether the proposal of the Swiss firm to strike a memorandum of understanding with Kerala Automobiles Limited would stand legal scrutiny. They reported that the State required the sanction of the Centre. The Centre had given the nod for the State to go ahead with its aim to become a hub for manufacturing electric vehicles in the country, Mr. Vijayan said. To expedite scheme The government would expedite the scheme. It was working out the modalities, and soon the Cabinet would consider the project for speedy implementation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chennithala-raising-half-baked-charges-cm/article31967397.ece
02 July 2020||BENGALURU,||‘Karnataka BJP reached out to 1.4 crore people’||A little over 1.4 crore people have been approached in the 23-day multi-dimensional campaigns conducted by the Bharatiya Janata Party Karnataka unit to fight against COVID–19 as well as to highlight the performance of the Union government, said BJP State general secretaryN. Ravi Kumar and Deputy Chief Minister C. N. Ashwath Narayan. In a press conference on Wednesday, Mr. Ravi Kumar said the party had held about 427 virtual rallies – ranging from the Assembly constituency level to the State level — and reached 42.83 lakh houses in order to distribute pamphlets. In all, about 5.13 lakh party workers took part in the campaign that commenced on June 7 and ended on June 30, he said. Culmination ceremony Dr. Narayan said that the culmination ceremony would be held on July 6 with the party’s national organising general secretary B.L. Santosh addressing avirtual rally from Delhi. In addition to this, as many as 37 lakh people were administered the “Swadeshi Sankalpa” expressing commitment that they will henceforth use only Indian-made goods, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-bjp-reached-out-to-14-crore-people/article31967096.ece
02 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,||News of success reaches tribal youth after 20 hours||Advancements in communication may have made the world a global village. But for the tribespeople living deep inside Kerala’s forests, the world has not changed much. Nineteen-year-old tribal student Subeesh G., who lives in the Nilambur forests, learned about his success in the SSLC examination 20 hours after Education Minister C. Ravindranath announced them on Tuesday. Officials of Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) had to undertake an arduous trek to reach the Plakkachola colony of the Paniya tribes, 4 km above Adyanpara in the Nilambur forest, on Wednesday to inform Mr. Subeesh about his success in the exams. Mr. Subeesh was one of the 12 “out-of-school” tribal students who wrote the SSLC exams with the support of SSK this year. Extreme situations had made them drop out of schools and SSK brought them back by accommodating them at special care centres at Nilambur, Marayur, Adimali, Aralam farm, Kottoor, and Nilackal. Mr. Subeesh dropped out of school twice and began helping his father collect honey from the wild. He remained elusive for four years until the SSK reached out to him during a tribal survey a couple of years ago. Mr. Subeesh has two mobile phone connections. But he does not have connectivity at his hamlet. Apart from Mr. Subeesh, six tribal youths from SSK hostel at Marayur and two each at Kottoor and Nilakkal passed the examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/news-of-success-reaches-tribal-youth-after-20-hours/article31966982.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China agree to hold more talks||“China welcomes that,” Mr. Zhao said, emphasising the need to keep close communication through military and diplomatic channels to ease the situation and reduce the temperature along the border. It has been learnt that both sides agreed to take forward the stalled process of disengagement agreed earlier at all friction points in Ladakh. In the first round of senior commander talks on June 6, both sides identified five conflict areas, Patrolling Point (PP) 14, 15 and 17A, North of Pangong Tso and Chushul, and agreed for limited “de-escalation” from some of these areas. It was during this “de-escalation” process near PP 14 in the Galwan Valley that the clash occurred. At the second round of talks on June 22 too, the two sides came to a “mutual consensus” to disengage along the LAC and the modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh were discussed. However, there has been no progress on the ground since. On the contrary, between the Galwan clash and the second round of talks, satellite images show that China has rebuilt the observation point and also additional defensive positions at Galwan. India’s consistent demand has been the restoration of status quo ante of pre May 5 positions and de-induction of forces built up by China along the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-agree-to-hold-more-talks/article31966985.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||CRPF jawan, civilian killed in J&K’s Sopore||The family of Khan, however, blamed the security forces. “My father was brought down from the vehicle and shot dead by the forces,” his daughter alleged. The picture of the boy sitting on his grandfather’s body at the site of the gunfight caused outrage in the Valley. Mr. Kumar, however, denied the charge. “It is totally baseless. The son and the daughter have made these allegations under militant threat. If there is any eyewitnesses, let them come forward.” Commenting on the picture, he said, “I will ensure police teams going to operations don’t carry mobile phones along, as it poses a threat to their lives.” Hundreds of netizens reacted sharply to the picture. A video shows the boy being offered biscuits by the police as he keeps insisting on seeing his parents. The picture and the video, however, came in for criticism. “The three-year-old toddler has to have his misery broadcast to the whole world to drive home the ‘we good they bad’ message. We would have got the point without his misery being filmed and shared. Everything becomes a propaganda tool in the bloody violence of Kashmir,” National Conference VP and former CM Omar Abdullah said. Mr. Kumar said a foreign militant, Usman Bhai, and local militant Adil, both of LeT were involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-jawan-civilian-killed-in-jks-sopore/article31966986.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Six killed in boiler blast at Tamil Nadu power plant||The explosion caused injuries to the NLCIL maintenance team, comprising one executive, two supervisors, three non-executive employees and 17 contract workmen. “Out of the 23 injured, six workmen engaged by a contractor succumbed to injuries on the spot. The other 17 injured were immediately rushed to the NLCIL hospital. Of them, 16 were referred to Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, while one with minor injuries is being treated at the NLCIL hospital,” NLCIL said. Tension prevailed after relatives of the six contract workmen staged a demonstration in front of the power station, blaming the management for negligence. The protesters also demanded stringent action against officials of Unit V, besides compensation to the families and a job to a family member. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, accompanied by Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri, Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav and NLCIL chairman-cum-managing director Rakesh Kumar inspected the spot. NLCIL has suspended A. Kothandam, chief general manager and unit head of thermal power station-II, for alleged failure to ensure safety. According to an NLCIL official, “The unit head of TPS-II has been suspended. All the four units have been ordered shut down.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-killed-in-boiler-blast-at-tamil-nadu-power-plant/article31966987.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Visa application services to resume for select nations||VFS Global, an outsourcing and technology services provider for governments and diplomatic missions worldwide, said on Wednesday that visa application services will resume for specific visa categories for Belarus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Portugal, South Korea, Turkey, UAE, and the United Kingdom. VFS said it would reopen Visa Application Centres in limited cities, with the approval of respective embassies/consulates in India, and operate under strict health and safety guidelines. Customers will have to schedule appointments online, through the website www.vfsglobal.com, prior to visiting the Visa Application Centre. However, it said outbound international commercial flights have not yet resumed as of this date. It said UK visa services will resume in limited locations in South Asia and travellers from 11 cities in India can submit their applications from July 6. “From July 6, UK Visas and Immigration is beginning a phased resumption of services in Ahmedabad, Bengaluru (Global Tech Park only), Chandigarh, Chennai (subject to local lockdown regulations), Jalandhar, Kochi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai (Mahalaxmi only), New Delhi (Shivaji Metro Stadium only), and Pune,” it said. On passport collection arrangement, VFS said, “If a decision has been made on a visa application, VFS Global staff will contact customers to arrange for the delivery of the passport.” As on May 31, VFS has processed over 223 million visa applications in 144 countries through its 3,390 centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visa-application-services-to-resume-for-select-nations/article31967095.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Free ration scheme inadequate, says CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of extending the free ration scheme till November was inadequate to meet the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The announcements made by the Prime Minister are totally inadequate to meet the crisis of survival and livelihood being faced by crores of our people. The provision of 5 kg of foodgrain and 1 kg of pulses is grossly inadequate to meet the survival needs of the people who have been deprived of their livelihood or food for over three months. Ten kg of foodgrain per individual per month for a period of six months is the minimum that needs to be ensured,” the statement said. The CPI (M) Polit Bureau said at least 14 crore people had lost their jobs during the lockdown and a cash transfer of at least Rs. 7,500 per month for six months to all families under the income tax bracket was needed. “The claim to provide jobs to all returned workers under MGNREGA is a fallacy. The provision of 100 days work per year for an additional one crore people requires an allocation of Rs. 2.46 lakh crore. Budgetary allocations plus the announced measures during the lockdown amount to less than Rs. 1.5 lakh crore together,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-ration-scheme-inadequate-says-cpim/article31967004.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Vishnu in four yugas||King Nimi asked Yogi Karabhajana about how Vishnu was worshipped and how He should be worshipped. Yogi Karabhajana told King Nimi that in each yuga, Vishnu was worshipped in different forms, explained P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. In the Krita yuga, He was white in colour, had four hands and He wore garments made of the bark of trees. In Krita yuga, people led peaceful lives. They were gentle and did not fight with each other. They had control over their senses. They performed tapas and reached the Lord’s feet. In this yuga, the Lord was known by ten names: Hamsa, Suparna, Vaikuntha, Dharma, Yogeswara, Amala, Iswara, Purusha, Avyaktah and Paramatma. In Treta yuga, He was red in colour, with hair of a golden hue. He had four hands and there were three folds in His stomach. He had in His hands sruk and sruva. These were wooden ladles used for pouring ghee into the sacrificial fire. People were adherents of dharma and were knowledgeable in the Vedas and praised Him through Vedic hymns. He had eight names in Treta Yuga: Vishnu, Yajna, Trishnigarbah, Sarvadevah, Urukramah, Vrishaakapihi and Urugaayah. In Dwapara yuga He was green in colour and wore silk garments. He held in His hands weapons like the conch, discus and mace. In His chest was the Srivatsa. In this yuga, He was worshipped in four forms: Vasudeva, Sankarshana, Pradyumna and Aniruddha. In Kali yuga, He is black in colour. In this yuga, He is praised through Nama Sankirtana. Through Nama Sankirtana, people can get worldly benefits and also attain moksha. Because of this, the sages of Krita yuga will desire to be born in Kali yuga, so that they can sing His praises, said Karabhajana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vishnu-in-four-yugas/article31967018.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Comply with order to tackle COVID: HC||“Provide details of the number of tests conducted on both symptomatic and asymptomatic persons and the number of positive cases,” the bench said. According to ICMR guidelines, asymptomatic direct and high risk contacts of an infected person should be tested between the fifth and 14th day of them coming into contact with the patient. It was not known whether such tests were being conducted. Citing media reports that a Central team visited Hyderabad, the bench said neither Advocate General B.S. Prasad nor Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao gave details of the findings. The bench said “ignorance is not bliss, it is an invitation to calamity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/comply-with-order-to-tackle-covid-hc/article31967331.ece
02 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||CM asks BJD MLAs to join COVID-19 fight||Chief Minister and Biju Janata Dal chief Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday asked party workers to start participating as volunteers in all COVID-19 pandemic-related programmes. “It is monsoon season and almost 10,000 people come to Odisha every day, mostly from hotspot cities. We have further decentralised our monitoring system to the ward level. All of you are leaders and respected in your areas. People look up to you in these crucial times,” Mr. Patnaik said while interacting with party MLAs through videoconferencing on Wednesday. Calling the pandemic an unprecedented crisis, Mr. Patnaik said Odisha is in a better state than many other States in its fight against COVID-19. “We have one of the highest recovery rates in the country and one of the lowest mortality rates anywhere,” he said. “Nearly 7 lakh people have returned after lockdown. Train charges and Rs. 2,000 financial support was borne by the CM’s Relief Fund. In addition, 14 days’ food and all other facilities were provided free,” he pointed out. Odisha on Wednesday reported 251 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-asks-bjd-mlas-to-join-covid-19-fight/article31967261.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHi,||IGNCA to highlight ‘silent COVID warriors’||With no shows, exhibitions or events of any kind taking place since March due to the lockdown, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) is planning to highlight the work of artists who have been entertaining and boosting the public’s morale during the COVID-19 pandemic, IGNCA member secretary Sachidanand Joshi said. While the exact programme is yet to be decided, a virtual festival or showcase of the artists’ work could be on the cards. “We are looking for artists and institutions who have innovated during the lockdown, whether it is starting online festivals or collecting and delivering groceries to needy artistes. They are the silent COVID warriors who boost our morale during this time,” he said. To be facilitator On Monday, the IGNCA wrapped up its first series of online lectures and over the next 15 to 20 days, it would plan out the next part of its virtual programme. Mr. Joshi said a model would be worked out so that the artists and other stakeholders like online ticket booking platforms don’t make a loss, and the IGNCA will function as a facilitator.  Apart from that, a series of short-term courses of 15 to 20 days each would be planned, he said. These would be introductory in nature and provide basic knowledge on topics such as manuscriptology, paleography, icnonography, digitisation and conservation of artworks, he said. The IGNCA would also review the response to its lecture series before deciding on what workshops to organise, he said. These would be structured programmes taught by master craftspeople for a fee, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ignca-to-highlight-artists-as-silent-covid-warriors/article31967266.ece
02 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Withdraw anti-farmer ordinances’||Several farmer outfits have on Wednesday passed a resolution against the Central government’s recent agriculture-related ordinances and its proposed amendments to the Electricity Amendment Act. At a videoconference meeting convened by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, members of different farmer unions termed the recently promulgated ordinances and the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003, as “anti-farmer” and demanded these ordinances and the proposed amendments be withdrawn, said an official statement. Addressing the farmers, the CM said, “We all must unitedly stand together notwithstanding our political affiliations.” Accusing the Centre of trying to take away all powers from the States, he said, “We should send a strong message to Delhi that we will not allow this to happen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/withdraw-anti-farmer-ordinances/article31967264.ece
02 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||2 shops sealed in U.P. anti-CAA violence case||“My mind is not working anymore. They have snatched my rozi-roti [source of livelihood],” says a distraught Mahenoor Chaudhary, whose scrap store in Lucknow was sealed by the administration under its drive to recover the damages to public and private property during last December’s protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In a first such step in the case, the Lucknow administration sealed two shops on Tuesday, the other being a garment store whose assistant manager Dharamvir Singh is among the accused. The two men are among the 13 accused in the Hasanganj violence case in which the administration had issued recovery notices of Rs. 21.76 lakh. The Lucknow administration had issued notices to 57 persons amounting to Rs. 1.56 crore. Their names, photos and addresses were also displayed on hoardings erected across the city. Shambu Sharan, tehsildar, Lucknow, said the shops were sealed in continuation of the recovery certificates issued by the ADM Trans-Gomti court against the violence on December 19, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-shops-sealed-in-up-anti-caa-violence-case/article31966991.ece
02 July 2020||WASHINGTON,||Pompeo welcomes India’s decision to ban Chinese apps||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday welcomed New Delhi’s decision to ban dozens of mobile applications with Chinese links, saying it will “boost India’s integrity and national security”. “We welcome India’s ban on certain mobile apps that serve as an appendage of the CCP’s [Chinese Communist Party] surveillance state,” Mr. Pompeo told reporters at a news conference.  As many as fifty-nine applications with Chinese links, including the hugely popular TikTok and UC Browser, were banned by the Central government on Monday for engaging in “activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.” The ban also comes in the backdrop of the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh with Chinese troops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pompeo-welcomes-indias-decision-to-ban-chinese-apps/article31967001.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Top-level meet discusses virus situation||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday chaired a meeting to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the country. The meeting was attended by Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, AIIMS Director Dr. Randeep Guleria, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Dr. Balram Bhargava, Health Secretary Preeti Sudan and senior officials. Emerging from the two-hour meeting, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said, “It was to discuss the overall situation pertaining to COVID infection in the country.” Mr. Shah, who had earlier intervened to micro-manage the COVID preparedness in Delhi, chaired the meeting to discuss the testing and other criteria in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-level-meet-discusses-virus-situation/article31967014.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Situation is improving, says Kejriwal||The COVID-19 situation in the capital seemed to be improving over the last few days, however, given the unpredictability of the novel coronavirus, there was no room for complacency, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said here on Wednesday. Across its hospitals, 5,800 beds were occupied by COVID-19 patients even as the city was prepared with 15,000 beds, the percentage of patients getting cured had reached 66% and the daily number of cases was also reducing, Mr. Kejriwal said. “On June 3, there were 3,950 new cases and yesterday [Tuesday] there were around 2,200. Even the number of daily cases seems to be reducing by half,” he said. “The situation seems to be under control; it is not as bad as it was predicted a month ago. But this doesn’t mean that things should completely go back to the way they were, that the government should open everything up again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/situation-is-improving-says-kejriwal/article31967015.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||One more crematorium for COVID victims in the offing||The State government is exploring options for installation of one more electric crematorium within the city peripheries, in addition to the already existing six run by the GHMC. The decision has been taken in view of entry being denied to bodies of COVID patients at various existing cremation grounds. All COVID-19 dead bodies are now being taken to a single undisclosed location, due to which pressure is piling up on the facility. Officials are scouting for locations suitable for installation of an electric crematorium with advanced technology within the GHMC area. Sources informed that a site in the city that comes under the Medchal-Malkajgiri district is being tentatively considered. Efforts are on to see that the crematorium is in place within a couple of months. Though six electric crematoria have been installed in the city by GHMC, spending crores of public money, not one among them is ready for use for the civic body when it needed them the most. GHMC had installed electric furnaces long ago at Amberpet and Bansilalpet cremation grounds, while modern electric crematoria were launched at S.R. Nagar and Punjagutta graveyards about a decade ago, say officials. All the six are lying non-functional for a long time now, they informed, attributing it to high maintenance costs. A proposal three years ago, to privatise the maintenance of these facilities has not taken off due to reasons unknown. Wherever the electric crematoriums have come up, residents nearby have risen in protests complaining of smoke, stench and pollution. At the same time, electric crematoriums set up by private trusts have been running very well, and are maintained in good shape. Mahaprasthanam at Jubilee Hills and Swarg Vatika at Trimulgherry are two such crematoriums that are offering decent funeral services in good ambience. Absence of functional public crematoriums with electric furnaces has become an insurmountable issue, especially in view of the influx of dead bodies due to rampant COVID cases in city. Though the death rate is said to be lower here compared to other cities, officials say about 20 to 30 bodies of either COVID-19 positive or suspected patients are arriving every day on an average from across the city. They include patients admitted in various public and private hospitals, and also those from home isolation. The civic authorities are facing severe pressure in disposing of the bodies in the conventional way, as residents surrounding the cremation grounds are vociferously protesting against bringing the infected bodies. A single location in the north-western part of the city, where they could convince people, is proving to be insufficient to burn bodies streaming in day and night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-more-electric-crematorium-for-covid-bodies-in-the-offing/article31967350.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM was not very active on Weibo||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has exited Weibo, posted infrequently on the Chinese social media website, with 115 posts in five years, although his annual posts on the International Day of Yoga usually received wide attention in China. Among his most forwarded posts were his birthday greetings to President Xi Jinping conveyed every year. On June 20, three statements by the Indian Embassy on the recent border tensions posted on its account on WeChat, another popular social media app, were removed by Chinese authorities. ‘Regulations violated’ A message following the removal said the posts were taken down for violating regulations. Social media in China are subjected to extensive censorship regime. Among the foreign sites blocked in China are WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. On Tuesday, China hit out at India’s move to block 59 apps. It described the action as “a deliberate interference in practical cooperation” between the two countries. China’s State media warned that the move would bring economic repercussions, such as affecting outbound Chinese investment into India. In separate statements issued by its Foreign Ministry and Embassy in New Delhi, Beijing called on India to review the move. “India’s measure, selectively and discriminatorily aims at certain Chinese apps on ambiguous and far-fetched grounds, runs against fair and transparent procedure requirements, abuses national security exceptions, and suspects of violating the WTO rules,” the Embassy said. “It also goes against the general trend of international trade and E-commerce, and is not conducive to consumer interests and the market competition in India.” Ban discussed widely The ban was one of the most discussed topics on Chinese social media this week. In an editorial, the Communist Party-run Global Times slammed what it said was “a lacklustre explanation for the nonsensical move”. “If India’s sovereignty can be damaged by a handful of apps, just how vulnerable is it?” the paper said. “It was not long before Indians realised that turning nationalist rhetoric into action is more difficult, as there are no available and affordable alternatives to Chinese-made products such as smartphones, chemicals, automotive components and many other items… It seems that not only has the Modi government failed to rein in the rising nationalism among Indians, it has also yielded to domestic pressure and even encouraged such a boycott to escalate.” Dip in investment The newspaper said it had conducted a survey of experts who “predicted Chinese overseas direct investment (ODI) into India will drop sharply in 2020, with two experts forecasting a more than 50 per cent cut.” “Bad feelings go both ways, and the chance for China-India relationship to pick up in the short-term is slim. Chinese investors are on the edge with risk-aversion instinct kicking in,” Qian Feng, director of the research department of the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the paper. He added that the coming year would not only see a 50% fall in Chinese investments in India, but would be “a turning point” in economic relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-was-not-very-active-on-weibo/article31966995.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||I-Day event at Red Fort to be a less pompous||The COVID-19 impact will mean the annual Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort will be a bit muted. Delhi Police officers say that physical distancing measures will be strictly followed. “There will be limited chairs at ramparts on the Red Fort for VVIP guests. The final decision over the entry of general public will be taken at a meeting of all security agencies,” said a senior police officer. Children’s cultural programmes may not be a feature this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-day-event-at-red-fort-to-be-a-less-pompous/article31967470.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Cabinet nod for bus fare hike||The ‘COVID special bus fares’ of ordinary and super-class buses in the State will come into effect in two days with the Cabinet giving the nod on Wednesday. As educational institutions are remaining closed, fares for students have not been hiked as recommended by the M. Ramachandran Fare Revision Committee. Ordinary buses The minimum fare of ordinary buses has been retained at Rs. 8. The distance that can be travelled for the minimum fare has been reduced from 5 km to 2.5 km. For every subsequent km in the 16 fare stages of the ordinary buses, the fare will go up by 90 paise as proposed by the committee. The Cabinet also hiked the fares for 12 super-class services like city fast, fast, super fast, super express, super deluxe, AC luxury, hi-tech, single axle, multi axle, low-floor AC and low-floor non-AC by 25%.  Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said the fares had to be notified and formalities had to be completed by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and private bus operators. The four-member committee, comprising transport expert T. Elangovan, finance expert N. Niyathi and State Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar as member secretary, submitted the report on Thursday. It had recommended the hike taking into account the losses suffered by the KSRTC and private bus operators due to the physical-distancing norms and poor patronage following the pandemic, the hike in price of high-speed diesel and increase in tax and insurance for buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-nod-for-bus-fare-hike/article31966977.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19 impactscoal production||The impact of COVID-19 on the performance of the public sector coal major Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) appears to be long lasting this financial year as it could achieve only 59% of the production target and 56% of the dispatch target in the first quarter. June was the fourth month in a row starting from March to have registered production and dispatch of coal much below the targets fixed. Along with the lower demand for the fossil fuel due to lockdown of the industrial and economic activity following coronavirus pandemic, partial operation of mines during the complete lockdown period spread over nearly two months from March 22 to May 19 is also being cited as the reason for the low production. According to the officials of SCCL, production of coal during the first three months of this financial year – April-June period – is only 9.5 million tonnes against the target of 16.23 million tonnes or 59% of the target. Similarly, the coal dispatches were 8.47 million tonnes against the target of 15.17 million tonnes or just 56% of the target. During the first quarter of 2019-20, the coal production was 17.09 million tonnes and dispatches were 16.84 million tonnes. The two aspects were only 55.62% or (-)44.38% and 50.3% or (-)49.7% during the first quarter of the current fiscal compared to what they were in 2019-20. Month-wise, the company was able to reach only 54% of the production target and 60% of dispatches target in April, 58% and 48%, respectively in May and 63.5% and 60% in June, the officials explained. “With several States including the neighbouring ones to Telangana, where the company has most of its coal linkages, either planning to clamp lockdown partially or have announced it already to contain the spread of COVID-19 by breaking the chain of contact (spread), the demand for coal is not likely go up since the impact of partial lockdown too would be on the economic/industrial activity,” a senior executive of SCCL observed. Meanwhile, the SCCL officials also stated that Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi has made an appeal to the Singareni workers not to go on a three-day strike from Thursday since the Centre had no plans to privatise coal public sector undertakings.  The demand is not likely to go up since the impact of partial lockdown too would be on economic/industrial activity Senior executive SCCL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-impacts-singareni-coal-production-badly/article31967374.ece
02 July 2020||Guwahati,||Tripura to fight COVID-19 with Vitamin C-enriched fruits, juice||The Tripura government has announced an immunity boosting programme that entails distributing Vitamin C-enriched juice and fruits, especially pineapple and lemon, among the urban population through self-help groups every Saturday. The programme, initially for July, is expected to cost the BJP-led government Rs. 1 crore. “The fruits will be directly purchased from our farmers,” Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted. Teams of the National Urban Livelihood Mission will monitor the scheme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-to-fight-covid-19-with-vitamin-c-enriched-fruits-juice/article31967019.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||CBI books middleman Sanjay Bhandari, Samsung Engineering||The CBI has booked middleman Sanjay Bhandari along with South Korea-based Samsung Engineering Co. Limited (SECL), unknown officials of ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) and others for entering into an “illegal” consultancy pact to bag a Gujarat-based project worth Rs. 6,744.32 crore. In his income-tax returns, the accused did not disclose the receipt of funds from SECL. The CBI alleged that the funds were for inducing public servants into extending undue favours to the SECL consortium in the award of the Dual Feed Cracker Unit project contract in Gujarat’s Dahej.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-middleman-sanjay-bhandari-samsung-engineering/article31967021.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||President lauds services of doctors||On the occasion of Doctor’s Day on Wednesday, President Ram Nath Kovind lauded medical professionals for their selfless service in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. “We express our gratitude to the doctors for their selfless service in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The nation admires and salutes your professionalism and sacrifice in the service of fellow citizens,” Mr. Kovind tweeted. The National Doctor’s Day is observed on July 1 in memory of former West Bengal Chief Minister and noted physician Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-lauds-services-of-doctors/article31967025.ece
02 July 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata urges NITI Aayog to prepare master plan for Sunderbans||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to NITI Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar for preparing a master plan for the socio-economic development of the Sunderbans. She called for a systematic review of the multiple challenges faced by the region. “I would request NITI Aayog to kindly commission the preparation of a Master Plan by an interdisciplinary team of experts covering all aspects of socio-economic development of this ecologically fragile region. Since this will involve the convergent efforts of several ministries/ departments/ agencies, NITI Aayog is suitably placed to steer this exercise,” she said in the letter sent on June 30. Cyclone havoc Referring to cyclone Amphan that made a landfall in coastal south Bengal on May 20, Ms. Banerjee said the Sunderbans received their worst battering in living memory from the cyclone. “Loss of human lives along with losses to homes, agriculture, public utilities and infrastructure, were staggering and turned the development wheel by several years,” she noted. Ms. Banerjee pointed out that the foremost challenges the region faced were frequent cyclones that caused considerable destruction and devastation, frequent breaches in earthen embankments leading to saline water flooding on agricultural land, and limited means of livelihood among others. “These difficulties are only going to get compounded by climate change. This latest trail of devastation reminds us of the need for a systematic review of the multiple challenges faced by the Sunderbans and calls for a scientifically designed development package for its protection and balanced socio-economic development. This would require a pool of experts drawn from relevant disciplines and also technical assistance from international/ multilateral bodies,” she wrote. The Chief Minister also emphasised that the Sunderbans, the world’s largest single block of mangroves, was a UNESCO World Heritage Site and home to approximately 50 lakh people, of whom 44% belonged to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-urges-niti-aayog-to-prepare-master-plan-for-sunderbans/article31967028.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal is city’s new Police Commissioner||In a major shuffle of senior IPS officers across the State, the Home Department late on Tuesday issued orders posting Additional Director-General of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, a 1994-batch officer, as the new Commissioner of Police, Chennai. He replaces ADGP A.K. Viswanathan, who has been transferred and posted as ADGP, Operations, Chennai. Prior to this, Mr. Aggarwal was the ADGP (Operations) and played a crucial role in handling the issue of migrant workers during the initial days of the COVID-19 lockdown in the State. Tasked with the responsibility of identifying thousands of labourers belonging to other States, who had settled in districts across Tamil Nadu, he formed small teams to enumerate the labourers district-wise and organised their food and shelter in coordination with the respective employers and district administrations. At least 4 lakh migrant workers were later sent to their respective States on Shramik Special trains. He was first deputed to Tirunelveli to supervise the enforcement of prohibitory orders and manage the role of police in preventing the spread of COVID-19 in the southern districts in April and then nominated as nodal officer for North Zone of Chennai to assist the police in combating COVID-19. Besides serving as Additional Commissioner of Police (South), Chennai, and Commissioner of Police in Madurai and Tirunelveli, Mr. Aggarwal headed the Special Investigation Division of the Crime Branch-CID formed to investigate the series of communal murders in which leaders of Hindu organisations were targeted and murdered a few years ago. All the cases were detected, the accused arrested and chargesheeted. He was given the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Excellence in Public Service on August 15, 2018. He was the recipient of the Police Medal for Meritorious Service and the Chief Minister’s Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty. Long stint in CBI Mr. Aggarwal served as Deputy Inspector-General of Police in the Central Bureau of Investigation, Chandigarh, for about seven years. Mr. Viswanathan had completed three years as the Chennai police chief, the longest tenure of an officer in the post in recent years. It was during his innings that thousands of surveillance cameras were installed in the city, which served as deterrence to anti-social elements and helped in detecting several crimes and in the regulation of traffic. In 2017, he received the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahesh-kumar-aggarwal-is-citys-new-police-commissioner/article31967149.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 3,882 cases; Chennai’s tally tops 60,000||Tamil Nadu recorded 3,882 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the State’s overall tally to 94,049*. As many as 2,852 patients were discharged from hospitals and 63 deaths were reported. Of the fresh cases, 2,182 were in Chennai, which recorded 2,000-plus infections for the third consecutive day. With this, the city’s case tally went past 60,000, even as infections continued to surge in several parts of the State. Madurai reported 297 cases, taking its overall tally to 2,858. Chengalpattu recorded 226 fresh cases, followed by Salem with 162. Tiruvallur reported 147 cases and Ramanathapuram 100. As of date, the State has a total of 39,856 active cases. While 52,926 persons have been discharged from hospitals so far, the death toll stands at 1,264. The 63 fatalities — 37 in government hospitals and 26 in private hospitals — had occurred between June 25 and July 1. There were three cases of patients being brought dead to hospitals in Chennai. Among them was a 34-year-old man from Chennai, who had no co-morbidities. He was declared ‘brought dead’ at the Government Royapettah Hospital on June 27. His sample returned positive for COVID-19 on June 28. His death was due to viral pneumonia and COVID-19, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Two more persons — a 43-year-old and an 88-year-old — were brought dead to the Government Royapettah Hospital. Both their samples returned positive for COVID-19, and the cause of death was viral pneumonia and COVID-19. A 36-year-old woman with morbid obesity, diabetes and psychiatric illness was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 29. She died on Wednesday due to factors including poorly controlled diabetes, bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. A total of 75 persons who had returned from abroad and from other States have also tested positive. They include 18 returnees from Karnataka. Except Perambalur, all other districts reported new indigenous cases of COVID-19. There were 86 cases in Kancheepuram, 76 in Vellore and 45 in Virudhunagar. Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Pudukottai, Theni, Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi had cases in the range of 30 to 40 each. Chennai had a total of 60,533 cases, including 36,826 who have been discharged. The city accounts for 929 of the total deaths in the State. Chengalpattu’s overall case tally stood at 5,648, followed by Tiruvallur (3,978), Madurai (2,858), Kancheepuram (2,067), Tiruvannamalai (1,859), Vellore (1,384) and Cuddalore (1,081). A total of 4,617 children aged 0 to 12 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State so far, while the figure for those aged above 60 stands at 11,294. Over 30,000 samples A total of 31,521 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 12,02,204. As many as 11,47,193 persons have been tested so far. One more government laboratory — the Government Hospital, Tiruchengodu, Namakkal district — has been approved for COVID-19 testing, taking the total number of testing facilities in the State to 91. The government has allocated Rs. 75.28 crore for the first phase of the work on the provision of oxygen pipelines to 59 government hospitals in the State, according to a press release.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-3882-cases-chennais-tally-tops-60000/article31967179.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Environmental clearance must for all mining leases, says NGT||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has held that Environmental Clearances (EC) are mandatory for mining leases whether major or minor, those that are even less than five hectares area, as per the amended Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification dated January 2016. The bench ruled that existing mining leases, too, will have to get EC and any mine, minor or major, shall not be permitted to operate without EC irrespective of the size of the mine. Applications for EC that are pending as on March 31, 2016, will, however, have to be treated as normal applications and not as violation and authorities are directed to dispose of the applications in accordance with law, the bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta said in their judgment. Violation applications Applications filed after that date can be treated as violation applications and the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) or the State Environment Impact Assessment Authorities can dispose of such applications as violation cases as per law, the bench said. The judgment came on an application filed by the Tamil Nadu Small Mine Owners Federation seeking the quashing of a clarification letter issued by the MoEF on April 3, 2017, claiming that it was violative of the amended EIA Notification dated January 15, 2016. The letter, issued on April 3, 2017, had clarified that as per an earlier notification issued in January 2016, all mining leases, for major minerals as well as minor minerals, were required to obtain EC after January 15, 2016. After hearing the parties, the bench said that it was clear that even in 2014, when the 2006 notification was amended, the distinction between major and minor minerals was taken away. and any mining lease of non-coal products, having less than 5 hectares, were brought under the regime of Environmental Clearance. Referring to earlier orders passed by the Principal Bench of the NGT, the Southern Bench said the cut-off date for filing the applications has to be limited up to March 31, 2016 and miners who had filed applications thereafter will be treated as violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/environmental-clearance-must-for-all-mining-leases-says-ngt/article31967166.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineering in an AI world||The viability of taking up engineering in an artificial intelligence-powered world is a question that is agitating a number of students across the country. Experts at the first webinar in The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling series, presented by SRM IST on July 1, clarified that engineering would always be relevant. Three eminent scientists — Sandeep Sancheti, Vice-Chancellor of SRMIST, Chennai; D.K. Aswal, Director, National Physical Laboratory, New Delhi; and Damodar Acharya, former Director of IIT-Kharagpur — spoke at the event which had around 1,300 participants. The session was moderated by Shubashree Desikan, Senior Assistant Editor, The Hindu . Briefly introducing the concept of artificial intelligence (AI), Dr. Acharya spoke about the various fields it could be applied to — agriculture, self-driving cars, home modulation, navigation, healthcare, manufacturing and even entertainment. Dr. Aswal spoke on how precise measurements were critical in helping society, citing the example of misdiagnosis in healthcare due to inaccurate test measurements. He particularly mentioned the importance of the accuracy of time, and how vital each second could be something as simple as booking a train ticket. He said this was how AI could help in quality while maintaining a benchmark of measurement standards, and make lives easier. Dr. Sancheti discussed engineering as a career. “To engineer is to create something which could help mankind and not many careers give you that kind of opportunity,” he said. “Engineering has a varied nature of learning which not only involves science but analytical and logical thinking as well.” He listed fields such as sports, cinema and finance that use engineering. “AI can be applied to any branch or discipline of engineering,” he said and spoke about the role of engineering and AI in helping people during the pandemic. The panellists discussed how AI was not only applicable to engineering but also in fields and topics such as big data, blockchain, data science and more. They agreed that it was a misconception that new technology would lead to a lack of jobs and reiterated that there would be a demand for engineering in new forms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-in-an-ai-world/article31967145.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Using lockdown, water board revamps STPs||Sewage treatment plants (STPs), which are over four decades old, are now getting a makeover. In this lockdown period, some of the major projects taken up by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board are making slow progress because of reduced workforce in the city. In an effort to improve the treatment of sewage and to adhere to the new norms of the Central Pollution Control Board, the water board has started work to revamp the existing STPs across the city. The oldest among the STPs is the 23 million litres a day (mld) capacity plant at Nesapakkam built in 1974. Moreover, new facilities are being built with a capacity to handle 350 mld of sewage at Kodungaiyur, Nesapakkam and Perungudi. Officials of the water board said the 12 STPs now had a capacity to treat 776 mld of sewage. “We have made progress of 8% in the work during the lockdown period with 40-50% of workers who are staying at the site. Only about 300 labourers are involved in the project now as many migrant workers have left the city. Transportation of construction material is a challenge,” said an official. Two plants being rebuilt The old facilities at Kodungaiyur and Koyambedu are being dismantled and replaced with new ones with higher capacity. Besides upgrading capacity, advanced technology would be used to improve the quality of treated sewage released into the city’s waterways. At present, the oxygen demand and total suspended solids level, which indicate the quality of recycled sewage, are reduced to 20 mg/l and 30 mg/l. Both these parameters have to be reduced to less than 10 mg/l, according to the new norms to reduce pollution in waterways. Work is on to build another 54 mld STP in Sholinganallur to cater to the areas along East Coast Road and Rajiv Gandhi Salai. While the lockdown period and COVID-19 crisis have slowed the Rs. 636 crore project, the water agency plans to accelerate the work and complete it within two years to ensure better quality of recycled sewage. Sewage generation in the city has reduced to 500 mld from the earlier 580 mld as commercial activities have decreased, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/using-lockdown-water-board-revamps-stps/article31967141.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safe practices for online learning: what the experts say||Over the last few months, it has been a tussle for parents of young children between online classes and concerns about a definite increase in screen time. Laptops, tablets and mobile phones have become indispensable for both school lessons as well as virtual art, music and dance classes or even fun activities like storytelling sessions. With schools, in particular, powering through with online classes for students, what is the effect this has on their vision and hearing? Viewing a computer screen, laptop, iPad or mobile phones will not cause any harm to the vision of schoolchildren provided they strictly implement a few safety measures, said Dr. Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director, Rajan Eye Care Hospital. He explained that be it adults or children, the continuous viewing of any electronic screen from a close distance for more than three hours is what can cause a strain on the eyes. “A break of 15 minutes is needed after a continuous viewing period of 45 minutes so that the eyes can relax. Children should take a small walk to relax the body and the eyes,” Dr. Rajan said. He stressed on the importance of good posture and said that the screen should be placed on a table at a distance of 1 foot. “The viewing screen should be kept 20 degrees below the eye level and no bright light should fall on the screen as this can cause a glare".  Bigger screens are better Phones and tablets are fast replacing desktop computers and laptops are the preferred devices for these classes, since they are easier to handle and are portable. “We, however, recommend that students stick to desktop computers or laptops over mobile phones if they are available,” said Dr. Soundari Agarwal, head, Medical Services, Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital. She also said that if a student is sitting in an air-conditioned room, care must be taken to ensure that the AC vent is not directly pointed at the face since this can lead to Evaporative Dry Eye (EDE) syndrome. Over the years, ophthalmologists have been advising software engineers and professionals, who work on computers for long hours, to follow the 20-20-20 rule to reduce eye strain, which they now say students should be encouraged to follow as well. “Every 20 minutes, take a break from the screen and focus on something at least 20 feet away for 20 seconds. This helps reduce the strain on the eyes since the muscles relax,” Dr. Soundari explained. Dr. Mohan Kameswaran, senior ENT Consultant and managing director, Madras ENT Research Foundation, said that ENT specialists had seen a rise in consultations with anxious parents, whose children have been complaining of episodic headaches, photophobia (aversion to bright light), eye and ear strain, tinnitus (noises in the ear), vertigo, imbalance, stress, fatigue, and insomnia. “This seems like an emerging issue related to the current trend of virtual learning and gadget addiction and parents should be aware of how gadgets with earphones, in particular, are being used by children. As a rule of thumb, parents should take remedial action if they can hear sound from their child’s earphone 3 feet away,” he said. Stressing on the importance of adhering to good gadget etiquette and safe hearing practices for online learning, Dr. Kameswaran said external speakers of good quality are safe to use if the volume is kept at around 80 db. “Otherwise, headphones of good quality are safer than using ear-insert phones. Children should be encouraged to take frequent breaks from the noise exposure and parents should make it a point to ensure that the children limit the use of gadgets after their classes.” In the absence of guidelines laid down by the State government on online learning, it is currently up to the schools to decide on how many hours of online classes to schedule per day. The lockdown has also meant that children are stuck indoors for long hours, focusing on screens near them while previously, they could get a short break from going to school or even playing outdoors with their peers. “While this isn't a permanent solution to regular classroom teaching, online classes have been the way to go during the pandemic to ensure continuity in learning. For this, safety measures and protocols need to be followed,” Dr. Rajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safe-practices-for-online-learning-what-the-experts-say/article31967174.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s electricity demand up slightly from April||Power demand in the State fell 14.8% in May 2020 when compared to May 2019, according to data from the Central Electricity Authority. However, there was a rebound in demand in May when compared to April, as some lockdown guidelines were relaxed for functioning of industrial establishments. Tamil Nadu’s power demand in May 2020 was 8,776 million units, down from 10,309 million units in the same period last year. In Tamil Nadu, the peak demand met also fell 9.8% to 14,021 MW in May 2020 from 15,552 MW in May 2019. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories in India and is a key manufacturing State with the presence of major automotive, auto components and other power-intensive sectors. Other major manufacturing States like Maharashtra and Gujarat also saw demand drop 11.3% and 13.5% respectively in May 2020 from last year. “All India, the decline in power demand narrowed in May 2020 due to the gradual lifting of lockdowns for certain economic activities, increase in domestic consumption with the peak summer season and the increase in agricultural usage due to the onset of the sowing season,” India Ratings and Research said. In April 2020, Tamil Nadu’s power demand declined 28.3% to 7,181 million units from 10,010 million units in the same period last year. Peak demand met crashed 28.6% to 11,398 MW in April 2020 from last year. With intense lockdown imposed in parts of Tamil Nadu from the middle of June, the power demand is expected to fall again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-electricity-demand-up-slightly-from-april/article31967157.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court directs Bar Councils of India, Tamil Nadu to disclose financials||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Bar Council of India (BCI) and the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (BCTNP) to disclose all details related to their finances. The court wanted to know their sources of income, the actuals received, deposits made, statements of expenditure and the balance sheet for the last two financial years. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and Anita Sumanth directed BCI counsel S.R. Raghunathan and BCTNP counsel C.K. Chandrashekar to submit the details by July 22. They also directed Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal to divulge the quantum of public money granted by the State government to the Advocates Welfare Fund managed by BCTNP in the last five years. The interim directions were issued on a public interest litigation petition filed by designated senior counsel A.E. Chelliah seeking a direction to BCI, BCTNP and the State government to pay Rs. 50,000 to every advocate and Rs. 25,000 to every advocate clerk in the State to cope up with the financial stress caused due to the COVID-19 lockdown. According to the litigant, the BCTNP receives funds towards the Advocates Welfare Fund as well as Advocate Clerks Welfare Fund by way of sale of stamps that had to be stuck mandatorily on every Vakalatnama (authorisation given by clients to advocates to appear on their behalf) and hence, it was obligated to assist the lawyers during difficult times. In reply, the BCTNP submitted that the rules applicable to welfare funds do not provide for disbursement of relief during contingencies such as COVID-19. The rules permit use of the funds only in the event of the death of an advocate and so on. Yet, the council had solicited donations to a separate relief fund and disbursed assistance to 12,000 advocates, it claimed. Mr. Chandrashekar said as on date, 65,000 advocates were on the rolls of BCTNP, which had solicited contributions from designated Senior Counsel for the relief fund. A request was also made to the Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for provision of financial assistance. Thereafter, applications were called for from advocates through a mobile application. More than 16,000 applications were received seeking financial assistance. Of them, around 12,000 were found eligible and provided with financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 each on May 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-directs-bar-councils-of-india-tamil-nadu-to-disclose-financials/article31967168.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM, leaders condole death of six in NLC boiler explosion||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of six persons in the explosion in Unit V of the Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC) on Wednesday. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said that solatium of Rs. 3 lakh to each of the bereaved families of the six deceased persons would be given from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). He also announced compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to each of those who suffered major injuries and Rs. 50,000 to those with minor injuries. The Cuddalore district administration has been instructed to rush those injured to safety and offer medical treatment. Minister M.C. Sampath, the Collector, the Superintendent of Police and fire officials have been asked to visit the spot for undertaking relief work on a war-footing, the Chief Minister said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah called up Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami over phone on Wednesday to inquire about the explosion and assured him of all possible help. Mr. Shah tweeted: “Anguished to learn about the loss of lives due to a blast at Neyveli power plant boiler in Tamil Nadu. Have spoken to @CMOTamilNadu and assured all possible help.” The Home Minister also said that the Central Industrial Security Force was already on the spot to assist in relief work. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, in a condolence message, said, “I offer deep condolences to the families of those who are mourning the loss of their near and dear ones. I join the people of Tamil Nadu in praying for the early and complete recovery of the injured admitted in hospitals.” Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy also expressed condolences on the deaths of six workers at the thermal power station. Mr. Narayanasamy, in an audio message, said the Corporation supplied uninterrupted power to the country. The death of workers was almost like a loss in one’s family, the Chief Minister said. Wishing a speedy recovery to the workers injured in the accident, he said the authorities should take steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-leaders-condole-death-of-six-in-nlc-boiler-explosion/article31967155.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health workers on COVID-19 duty yet to get special pay||Three months after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced one-month’s special pay for healthcare providers/workers on COVID-19 duty, none of them have received the amount. Not only the special pay but also ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh meant for frontline workers who test positive for COVID-19 has not reached any of the infected doctors or staff nurses. On March 24, the Chief Minister announced the special pay for doctors, staff nurses and sanitary workers engaged in COVID-19 work. However, three months have gone by, and the assurance has not materialised. “In fact, a list of persons who were on COVID-19 duty was collected twice for the purpose of submitting information to the government for grant of this special pay. We had submitted details such as the number of days we had worked in COVID-19 wards and the last date of duty almost a month-and-a-half ago,” an assistant professor in a government medical college hospital in Chennai said. It was on May 8 that the Director of Medical Education (DME), in a circular, requested all institutions to furnish details of categories of staff working in COVID-19 wards and control activities with their salary details for payment of one month salary as relief measure. This included outsourced and contract staff. It said that the circular was to be treated as most urgent and the last date of submission was May 14. “In fact, we heard that in an institution, postgraduates, who had worked in COVID-19 wards, were informed that they were not eligible for the special pay,” a doctor, on condition of anonymity, said. Doctors in various government institutions pointed out that none of the healthcare providers/workers who tested positive for COVID-19 had received the ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh meant for front line workers. “In the medical services, none of the doctors of any cadre have received the amount, while we heard that a list of staff of Greater Chennai Corporation who had tested positive were submitted for the fund,” a senior doctor added. In fact, many staff who had tested positive had submitted forms with the hospital administrations for the ex-gratia. “Along with the discharge summary, a form signed by the treating physician and head of the department or director of the institution should be submitted. Many had submitted the forms,” another doctor added. The issue of special pay and ex-gratia was highlighted by the Federation of Government Doctors Association during their meeting with the Health Secretary. The association insisted that all healthcare providers should receive the special one month pay. An official said they had submitted the details of beneficiaries for the special pay, and it was awaited.  A list of persons on COVID-19 duty was collected twice for the purpose of submitting information to the government for grant of this special pay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-workers-on-covid-19-duty-yet-to-get-special-pay/article31967175.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Accident exposes poor safety mechanism: Stalin||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Wednesday charged that the accident at the Neyveli Lignite Corporation, in which six workers were killed, had thoroughly exposed poor safety arrangements in one of the biggest public sector undertakings in the country. “The accident took place because of the indifferent attitude of the NLC management. Failure to maintain the units periodically is said to be the reason for the boiler blast,” he alleged in a statement. Mr. Stalin pointed out that this was the second accident at the NLC plant in under two months and five workers had been killed in an accident in May. “Accidents have become routine and the NLC management should take responsibility,” he said. ‘Lax maintenance’ Alleging that the boiler blast took place because the maintenance was handed over to private companies instead of the BHEL, CPI (M) state secretary K. Balakrishnan demanded a probe by a high-level committee into the blast. In a statement, he said the government should disburse compensation of Rs. 50 lakh each to the families of the workers killed in the accident. He demanded Rs. 10 lakh compensation for those injured in the accident and free medical treatment till they recovered. MDMK general secretary Vaiko said since two accidents had happened within two months, the Union Coal Minister should constitute a technical committee to probe the incidents. He demanded Rs. 25 lakh relief to the families of those who died in the accident. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan demanded that a proper investigation be conducted into the incident. BJP State president L. Murugan, too, demanded compensation for the families and said the management must ensure that the units were maintained in a proper condition so that such accidents do not occur in the future. He also said that jobs must be provided to a member each from the families of those who lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accident-exposes-poor-safety-mechanism-stalin/article31967161.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on July 4||The Hindu Education Plus will host a webinar series on career counselling on July 4. The series, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, will discuss a range of topics, including Engineering, Medicine, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Sciences. The second webinar will focus on challenges facing humanities and social sciences in a changing academic environment. The speakers include P. Duraisamy, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras; Sridhar Krishnaswami, Deputy Dean and Professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Faculty of Science and Humanities at SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai; and Mathangi Krishnamurthy, Assistant Professor of Anthropology at the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT-Madras. R. Balasubramanian, Pro Vice-Chancellor (External Affairs) at SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will speak at the event. It will be held on Thursday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Participants can register at:https: //bit.ly/ 2YJVBXsor by scanning the QR barcode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-july-4/article31967151.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SSI succumbs to COVID-19 in Chennai||A special sub-inspector of police (SSI) succumbed to COVID-19 at a private hospital early on Wednesday. He is the second victim of the pandemic in the Greater Chennai City Police limits after S. Balamurali, Mambalam inspector, died on June 17. R. Manimaran, 57, a special sub-inspector, joined the force in 1986 and was with the Pattinampakkam police station from August 5, 2019. On June 11, he had breathing difficulties and was admitted to a government hospital. Later, he was shifted to a private hospital in Chromepet. From June 14, he was in a critical condition. So far, over 1,129 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Greater Chennai City Police. Around 450 police personnel rejoined duty after recovering from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-chennai/article31967153.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||GST collections down 15% in June||Tamil Nadu’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections declined 15% to Rs. 4,976 crore in June 2020 from Rs. 5,881 crore in June 2019, data released by the Union Finance Ministry on Wednesday showed. The collections were hit by the lockdown imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which in turn hurt consumption. In June, returns of February, March, and April 2020 have also been filed in addition to some returns of May 2020 since the government has given time for filing the returns. Some returns of May 2020, which would have otherwise been filed in June 2020, will be filed during the first week of July 2020, the Ministry said. “The impact has been on multiple sides. There has been a fall in consumption because of the lockdown. This is felt both on the petrol and diesel side as well as on regular GST collections. “Even where consumption has taken place, tax collections have not been remitted because an extension was given. The remittance has been getting delayed, so it is a combination of both factors,” a government official said. With the extension of the lockdown, this deferral in payment is likely to continue, he added. The Chief Minister had recently said that with industries and businesses remaining shut, the State would sustain a revenue shortfall of about Rs. 12,000-Rs. 13,000 crore a month. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said the fall in States’ revenue would shift focus on the Centre’s obligations to compensate States for any shortfall in GST revenue collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-collections-down-15-in-june/article31967172.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenure of special officers gets extended||Governor Banwarilal Purohit has promulgated an Ordinance to extend the term of the special officers of town panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations, which expired on June 30, by another six months till December 31 this year, since the urban local body elections for these nine districts could not be held due to the outbreak of COVID-19. Though the delimitation of territorial wards of town panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations in the nine newly reconstituted districts — Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi — were “under active process”, following the order of the Supreme Court in December last year, the outbreak of COVID-19 had led to a lockdown. According to an official release, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission initiated the preparation of local body electoral rolls, identification of polling stations, training for handling electronic voting machines, among others, soon after the Supreme Court’s orders. “In the meantime, due to the sudden outbreak of COVID-19, lockdown has been declared by the Central and State governments. The entire machinery of the government is engaged in taking preventive, protective, relief and welfare measures on a war footing, to mitigate the suffering of the people. Hence, the TNSEC is not in a position to conduct the urban local body elections,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ordinance-promulgated-to-extend-tenure-of-special-officers-in-local-bodies/article31967162.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hotels reiterate demand for cut in VAT on LPG||The price of a 19 kg cylinder of commercial liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in Chennai rose to Rs. 1,254 on Wednesday from last month’s Rs. 1,144.50, much to the disappointment of customers, mostly hoteliers who have been urging the government to reduce the value-added tax (VAT) of 18%. For an industry already reeling under the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown, an increase in LPG prices adds to financial woes. “Many hotels and restaurants have not opened despite the government permitting us to have dine-in services. They feel they are better off being closed rather than bear electricity and LPG costs. We had been seeking reduction in VAT, which, if given, will provide some relief,” said M. Ravi, Chennai Hotels’ Association. Adding to their troubles is the fact that traditionally LPG price in Chennai has been higher than that of other metros. Mumbai has the lowest price (Rs. 1,087.50 for July) since it is on the western coast. It is followed by Delhi (Rs. 1,139.50), which gets LPG via pipeline from Gujarat and then Kolkata (Rs. 1,193.50), said oil industry sources. Under normal circumstances, sale of commercial LPG forms about 10%-15% of cooking gas sale in Tamil Nadu. However, due to the lockdown, this figure had come down to around 5%. R. Srinivasan, a hotelier from Madurai, said the hotels were not in a position to increase prices of food since it would deter even the few customers that they get.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-reiterate-demand-for-cut-in-vat-on-lpg/article31967139.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tanker contractors drop strike plan||The Metrowater Tanker Lorry Contractors’ Association has withdrawn the strike announced after July 10 as the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board has agreed to consider their demands. The association had demanded a 30% hike in the hire charges citing a rise in expenditure, including the surge in fuel prices. Members said the compensation provided on variations in fuel price and labourer charges was not sufficient. The water agency has hired about 650 lorries that now operate 5,700 trips for street supply and those on payment. Association president P.S. Sundaram said the water utility had asked the association to submit a charter of demands and that they would be considered and implemented following the board’s approval. “We have decided to withdraw the strike after talks with officials and to avoid inconvenience to residents,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanker-contractors-drop-strike-plan/article31967142.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP appears before ED||Former Union Minister and DMK MP S. Jegathratchagan appeared before officers of the Enforcement Directorate in connection with an alleged money laundering case. He was quizzed for more than five hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-appears-before-ed/article31967183.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aided colleges appeal to PM for relief||The Association of Managements of Aided Polytechnic Colleges has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking financial relief. Citing the COVID-19 pandemic, the association’s members sought soft loans for students to help them pay fees and buy computers, and interest-free loans for institutions to help them pay salaries. They sought Rs. 50,000 crore for an estimated 50 lakh students pursuing engineering, hotel management, pharmacy, management and technical courses. President of the association C. Valliappa said the government had come to the aid of the MSME sector but had forgotten the education sector. He cited the AISHE 2018-19 survey and said: “Enrolment in higher education sector is estimated at 3.74 crore young Indians, out of which 50 lakh students, the highest number, is enrolled in engineering and technology stream. This includes students of polytechnics, engineering, technology, hotel management, pharmacy and management studies. The annual expenditure on running these education institutions comes to nearly Rs. 50,000 crore.” Up to 77% of the colleges in the private sector depended on the fees collected from students. Also, over 60% of the higher education institutions in the country were in the rural areas, Mr. Valliappa said, adding that the pandemic had resulted in a backlog in fee collection for the academic year 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aided-colleges-appeal-to-pm-for-relief/article31967176.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assumes charge||G.V. Krishna Rao has assumed charge as Chief Commissioner of Customs from July 1, in addition to his charge as Principal Commissioner of GST and Excise, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, according to a press release. He has served in Mysuru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Hyderabad and Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assumes-charge/article31967143.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GI tag sought for Udangudi jaggery||The Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology and the Department of Biotechnology, Mother Teresa Women’s University, Kodaikanal, have applied for geographical indication (GI) tag for ‘Udangudi panangarupatti’. ‘Udangudi panangarupatti’ is a type of jaggery produced from palmyrah palm at Udangudi in Thiruchendur region. “The field work has been completed by Mother Teresa Women’s University, Tirunelveli District Palmyrah Products Co-operative Federation, Tuticorin, and the Council. The application was verified at the Council and submitted at Intellectual Property Office, Guindy, on June 16,” said TNSCST member secretary R. Srinivasan. The GI tag for ‘Udangudi Panangarupatti’ would weed out duplicates and would help improve the livelihood of the dependant people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-udangudi-jaggery/article31967167.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M Shaastra’s online tribute to COVID-19 warriors||Shaastra, the technical festival of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, will host ARTribute, an online platform to pay tribute to front-line workers in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. ARTribute will feature original artwork — photography, multimedia, paintings — from interested people, all dedicated to ‘COVID warriors’. Contributors will receive participation certificates. The weekly best winner will also get an opportunity to get their artwork published on Shaastra’s FB and Insta pages. Submissions may be done onartribute.shaastra.org. Participants may contact atoutreach@shaastra.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-shaastras-online-tribute-to-covid-19-warriors/article31967146.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to set up IT wings||The AIADMK has decided to set up information technology wings at all levels of the organisation across the State. A statement by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister Panneerselvam said steps were under way to appoint office-bearers at the levels of district, panchayat union, town panchayat and one each for village panchayats and wards of urban local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-set-up-it-wings/article31967159.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor shops to closed on all Sundays in July||Chennai The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) has instructed all senior regional managers and district managers not to operate shops on all Sundays this month. According to officials, Tasmac, on average, currently sells liquor worth Rs. 105 crore per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-shops-to-closed-on-all-sundays-in-july/article31967164.ece
02 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. starts door-to-door survey as part of control measures||Coimbatore Corporation has launched a door-to-door survey as a part of its COVID-19 containment measures and has set up 84 micro control rooms to enforce safety guidelines. The surveyors would collect the name, age, phone number, number of persons living there, their quarantine status and a few other details necessary in its fight against COVID-19, Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath told The Hindu . The Corporation had started the survey in a limited scale in South and West zones. In a day or two, it would expand it to the other three zones to cover the entire city. It had deployed 800 domestic breeding checkers for the task and would deploy an additional 1,000 persons. After the collecting the details, the surveyors would hand over the forms to teachers manning the micro control room concerned. The Corporation had formed 84 such micro control rooms and to man those had drawn teachers and headmasters/headmistresses from its education wing, Mr. Jatavath said. After consolidating the data, the teachers would present the form to the control rooms set up at each of the five zonal offices. At the end of the survey period, the Corporation would have details on each of the household, area with high population density, number of vulnerable people in an area, number of people in a vulnerable area, number of persons in quarantine, etc. The teachers would then call people in quarantine to check if they were at home and if not, alert the flying squad concerned for follow-up action, Mr. Jatavath said. The surveyors would also note down vulnerable areas in the wards – places where people gathered, places where social distancing norms were violated among others. The teachers consolidating such details would pass on that information also to the flying squads. If during the survey, the surveyors came across people with fever, they would alert the teachers, who would in-turn alert the zonal control room. Along with the consolidated report that the teachers submitted to the zonal office, they would also present a plan of action for the next day, saying where the Corporation could set up medical camp or where it should intensify its disinfection spraying activity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-starts-door-to-door-survey-as-part-of-control-measures/article31967202.ece
02 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New Police Commissioner for Tiruppur||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore Range, G. Karthikeyan has been promoted as Inspector General of Police and posted as Commissioner of Police, Tiruppur City, in place of Sanjay Kumar, who has been transferred as Inspector General- Technical Services, Chennai. K.S. Narenthiran Nayar, DIG-Police Administration, Chennai, has been posted as DIG, Coimbatore Range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-police-commissioner-for-tiruppur/article31967210.ece
02 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cage placed to trap carnivore near Madukkarai||The Forest Department on Wednesday placed a cage in a village near Madukkarai after a carnivore, suspected to be a leopard, killed two of the four goats of a farmer on Tuesday night. The farmer’s house is closed to Ettimadai beat of the Madukkarai forest range. The Department also placed two camera traps to track the carnivore’s movement at night. When the Forest Department staff visited the place on Wednesday morning, they found that the bite marks on the goats were similar to that of a leopard. After conducting a post-mortem on the carcasses of the goats, veterinarian Ramnath from Madukkarai said the injuries on the animals could have been inflicted by a leopard. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh then ordered that a cage be placed in the village to trap the carnivore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cage-placed-to-trap-carnivore-near-madukkarai/article31967218.ece
02 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Owner of textile showroom booked||Peelamedu police on Tuesday registered a case against the owner of a textile showroom on Masakalipalayam Road after he opened the showroom which was sealed by the Revenue Department for having violated physical distancing norms. According to the police, Coimbatore south tahsildar had sealed the showroom on June 24 after authorities found that physical distancing norms were violated during its functioning. The owner, however, opened the textile showroom on June 25. Coimbatore Corporation sealed the showroom on June 26. Two days later, the showroom owner and 18 employees tested positive for COVID-19. The police said that a case was registered against the owner under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.   Special Correspondent adds: The Corporation on Wednesday penalised 68 commercial establishments for various COVID-19 safety guideline violations and collected Rs. 20,800 in fine. According to sources, various commercial establishments including branches of banks violated the guidelines by operating air conditioners, not maintaining visitors’ register and placing sanitisers. The Corporation continued to act against such violators. The Corporation also fined 346 persons for not wearing mask, netting Rs. 34,600. In Vellakinaru, around 50 traders volunteered to shut shop after the Corporation declared the area a containment zone after more than six persons tested positive for COVID-19. Last week, the Corporation had shut 30 shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owner-of-textile-showroom-booked/article31967199.ece
02 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector appeals to political parties||District Collector K. Rajamani has appealed to political parties, social organisations and outfits to not mobilise people or meet cadre or members to prevent the spread of COVID-19. In a release issued on Monday, he said to contain the spread of the disease, especially at a time when the COVID-19 positive increased by the day, it was necessary to avoid mobilisation of people or meeting cadre or members. It was important that the political parties, outfits or social organisations abide by the instruction because the State government had not completely lifted the lockdown and restriction were very much in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-appeals-to-political-parties/article31967223.ece
02 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC suspends bus services||Following the extension of COVID-19 lockdown by the State government till July 31, the Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) stopped the operation of all buses from Wednesday. TNSTC officials said that only 27 buses were operated for government workers in Coimbatore district. Of these, 16 were for the conservancy workers and the rest were operated for the government staff of the District Collectorate and District Court. The State government suspended all intra-district bus operations by government and private operators between July 1 and 15 to curb the spread of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the sit-in protests of TNSTC employees called by the Federation of TNSTC Trade Unions scheduled for Wednesday was postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-suspends-bus-services/article31967200.ece
02 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Presiding officer for DRT||M.P. Balasubramanian, who was practising in Chennai as an associated lawyer with Aiyar and Dolia has assumed office as the Presiding Officer of Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT), Coimbatore , according to a press release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presiding-officer-for-drt/article31967211.ece
02 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth booked for impregnating minor||The Podanur police booked a 23-year-old youth of Vellalore on charges of impregnating a minor girl whom he married. The police said that the accused hails from a residential area near Vellalore. According to the police, the man took the girl to a primary health centre at Vellalore after she complained of stomach pain. Doctors found that the girl was conceived and informed the police as she was a minor. The Podanur police registered a case against the man based on the complaint lodged by the mother of the girl.    A 47-year-old man from Irugur was arrested by Singanallur police on Tuesday allegedly after he harassed a woman conservancy worker. A. Rajadurai, a resident of Puthiya Colony near Irugur and a driver with Irugur town panchayat, was arrested by the police based on a complaint lodged by a 29-year-old woman conservancy worker. The accused allegedly made advances towards the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-booked-for-impregnating-minor/article31967216.ece
02 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sengottaiyan flags issue in releasing Class XII results||Tamil Nadu School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said there was a problem with the publication of the Class XII board exam results as out of the 34,652 students who were unable to take the test on March 24, only 718 had expressed their willingness to do so now. Addressing the media after inaugurating various developmental projects worth Rs. 3.38 crore in Elathur panchayat, the Minister said that due to the lockdown restrictions, many students did not write the exam, and the Chief Educational Officers had been asked to collect their details. “Only 718 [students] have expressed their willingness to write the exam now,” he said. The Minister said that since buses would not be operated till July 15, a decision on conducting the pending exam would be taken after the issue is discussed with the Chief Minister. “Only after conducting the exam for all the students will the results be announced,” he said. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that given the current situation, it may take a long time for schools to reopen, and that a decision in this regard would be taken by the Chief Minister after holding consultations with teachers, parents and revenue and health officials. Banning online classes To a query on banning online classes, the Minister said the issue was before the court, and the government would take a decision based on the court’s order. He said 73,671 children were admitted to government schools last year, and this year’s admissions figure was expected to be two lakh. Mr. Sengottaiyan said textbooks were being sent to schools, and discussions were on regarding how they were to be dispatched to students. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that given the current situation, it may take a long time for schools to reopen, and that a decision in this regard would be taken by the Chief Minister after holding consultations with teachers, parents and revenue and health officials. To a query on banning online classes, the Minister said the issue was before the court, and the government would take a decision based on the court’s order. He said 73,671 children were admitted to government schools last year, and this year’s admissions figure was expected to be two lakh. Mr. Sengottaiyan said textbooks were being sent to schools, and discussions were on regarding how they were to be dispatched to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sengottaiyan-flags-issue-in-releasing-class-xii-results/article31967171.ece
02 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Allotment of shops to traders at VOC Park Ground today||Allotment of around 700 shops at VOC Park Ground by draw of lots would be held at the Corporation Marriage Hall, near bus stand, at 10 a.m. on Thursday. There are 807 wholesale and retail shops functioning at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market premises on R.K.V. Road that was shifted to Corporation Central Bus Stand premises in the last week of March due to spread of COVID-19. However, traders demanded construction of 220 additional shops and refused to relocate. Later, the works were taken up and completed. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the four-acre premises with shops are ready for occupancy. But traders wanted concrete flooring to be done as the wheels of a truck carrying construction materials got stuck in the slush. P.P.K. Palanisamy, president, Nethaji Wholesale Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market Association said that they had put forth their demand for cement flooring the premises as trucks carrying vegetables cannot move inside the premises. “But we were told that there is no fund for the flooring works”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allotment-of-shops-to-traders-at-voc-park-ground-today/article31967205.ece
02 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Joint Director (Agri) assumes charge||C. Chinnasamy assumed office as Joint Director of Agriculture for Erode district here on Wednesday. Prior to this, he served as Secretary of Erode District Agriculture Market Committee, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joint-director-agri-assumes-charge/article31967204.ece
02 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water released in Kalingarayan Canal||As per the orders of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, water was released from Kalingarayan Anicut to Kalingarayan canal for irrigation on Wednesday. The Chief Minister had said that based on the request from the farming community, water would be released from the reservoir to benefit 15,743 acre in Erode, Modakurichi and Kodumudi blocks from July 1 to October 28. Meanwhile, Keel Bhavani Pasana Sabai has urged the State government to release water in the Lower Bhavani Project canal also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-in-kalingarayan-canal/article31967208.ece
02 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door surveillance for fever cases under way||Door-to-door surveillance for fever cases is under way in the 57 containment zones in Madurai district. The containment plan is based on number of cases recorded in each area. Under the corporation limits, streets where there are more than three cases will be cordoned off. “In rural areas though, we are cordoning off streets even if a single case is reported. Barricades are placed and stickers pasted on the houses of the patients,” a health official said. He said they had been doing door-to-door surveillance surveillance every day for fever cases and following routine containment procedures such as extensive disinfection. However, restriction on movement inside the containment had not been curtailed, said a staff. Residents said the basic containment and disinfection procedure was followed but door-to-door surveillance was not conducted in many areas. An official from Sholavandhan said, “Three people in Chinnakarai Street tested positive for COVID-19 and were sent to Government Rajaji Hospital. We disinfect their houses and clean the street. People are allowed to move in and out of containment zones but they must wear mask,” he said. Two others tested positive in villages away from Sholavandan. “We did not cordon off the area but did disinfection in and outside their houses,” he said. In Paravai area, there are eight containment zones, including one in Muniyandi Koil Street in Sathiyamoorthy Nagar. However, N. Nagarajan, who lives nearby, said it was not cordoned off. But an official from the town panchayat said since only members of one family had tested positive they did not cordon off the area, but would do it by Thursday. He said most of the patients from Paravai area had been discharged and the containment zones would remain for only one more week. Communist Party of India (Marxist) functionary J. Lenin said Mela Anuppanadi had many streets under containment. The corporation was undertaking disinfection but many residents inside the containment zones walked inside without wearing mask. “Since the areas are blocked, they also gather for chit-chat. People are yet to realise the seriousness of the disease,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said containment activities had been taken up vigorously. Apart from disinfecting, they were providing zinc and vitamin tablets and kabasura kudineer to build immunity of the residents. “We are making maximum efforts toward door-to-door fever surveillance and containing fever cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-surveillance-for-fever-cases-under-way/article31967515.ece
02 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||297 test positive in Madurai||As many as 297 people in Madurai district tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday taking the total number of cases till date to 2,858. All the cases were indigenous. The district recorded seven deaths. While three took place in private facilities, four were recorded at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). As many as 30 deaths have been recorded in Madurai in the past week. Collector T. G. Vinay said there were 157 influenza-like illness cases, 76 patients who were contacts of other COVID-19 positive cases, 41 frontline workers and five pregnant women who tested positive. There were 61 discharges and 1,941 active cases. Theni A total of 33 persons in Theni tested positive and one death was recorded on Wednesday. The total number of cases in Theni stands at 736. There were eight discharges and 562 active cases. Dindigul In Dindigul, 35 patients tested positive taking the total count to 507. Doctors and police personnel were among those who tested positive. There were nine discharges and 215 active cases.. Ramanathapuram A total of 111 persons, including 11 imported cases, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday taking the total number of cases in the district to 952. Two deaths were recorded, taking the total number of deaths to 12. A health official said out of the positive cases recorded on Wednesday, five were from other States, 12 from other countries and one from another district. The total cases included 11 contacts of COVID-19 positive persons and 69 persons with influenza-like-illness symptoms. Eleven cases had been notified to other districts.  There are 697 active cases in the district.     Sivaganga     A total of 30 COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in Sivaganga district on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 268. It included 19 contacts of positive persons, four frontline workers, three persons with influenza-like illness symptoms and an imported case. The district has 180 active cases.    Virudhunagar Virudhunagar recorded 45 cases taking the total number of cases to 538. With 231 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases stood at 300. The district registered seventh death due to COID-19.  Tirunelveli The southern districts added 102 COVID-19 positive patients on Wednesday with Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari adding 33 cases each. While Tirunelveli had 33 cases, including 32 indigenous cases, Kanniyakumari had 30 indigenous cases. However, Tirunelveli has 830 infections so far with 243 active cases and Kanniyakumari has 401 cases with 242 active ones. Number of infections in Thoothukudi district came down to 15 even as the total number of infections moved to 958 and 255 active cases. Tenkasi district added 21 more new cases to have 368 infections and it has 186 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/297-test-positive-in-madurai/article31967509.ece
02 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Monitored home isolation care soon||Monitored home isolation care for COVID-19 patients in rural areas would begin in two days, said Collector T. G. Vinay. District Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan announced on June 28 that a strategy would be rolled out soon. Collector T.G. Vinay said 61 COVID-19 positive people in the corporation limits would be monitored every day through tele-consultation. Similar exercise would be followed in rural areas too. An official from the Government Rajaji Hospital said that the move was to decongest government hospitals and COVID care centres where several hundred people were housed as they either had moderate or severe illness due to COVID-19. Those proposed to be placed under home isolation must meet a certain criteria. “Patients must have a separate room with an attached toilet so that they can be isolated. They must be away from the rest of the people in the household. They must not have any severe co-morbidities and the severity of their infection should only be mild,” he said. There must not be any immuno compromised persons in their house. He added that those with symptoms of COVID-19 must visit their nearest fever clinic to find out whether or not they could be recommended for monitored home isolation. If permitted, sanitary inspector or sanitary officer would visit the area, paste a sticker to show the presence of a COVID-19 positive patient in the house and barricade the house. “They will explain all dos and don’ts and connect the patient to the COVID-19 control room and telemedicine consultation unit of the corporation with nurses, doctors and counsellors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitored-home-isolation-care-soon/article31967516.ece
02 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||139 kg of ganja seized||A special team of police seized 139 kg of ganja from two places and arrested three persons at Kangeyanatham near Tirumangalam on Tuesday. The team intercepted E. Kannan, 47, and A. Ponnangan, 45, of Theni district, who were riding separate motorbikes on Usilampatti-Tirumanglam highway and found 6.4 kg of ganja in their possession. Interrogation revealed they had procured the ganja from C. Vijayan of Sengulam and M. Krishnan of Keezha Urappanur. The team raided a godown run by Krishnan at Ashok Nagar under Tirumangalam Town police station limits and found 132.4 kg of ganja there. “They were smuggling ganja and using the vegetable godown for stocking it,” Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan said. Kannan, Ponnangan and Vijayan were arrested. Krishnan is absconding. The team seized the two motorbikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/139-kg-of-ganja-seized/article31967507.ece
02 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||292 fined for not wearing mask in public places||Since the intensified lockdown, which began on June 24 in Madurai district, 292 persons have been fined for not wearing mask in public till Wednesday. According to data provided by the district administration, an average of 585 people were fined every day since the first lockdown as 4,099 people were caught by revenue and police for not following the rule meant to check the spread of COVID-19. From May 20 till date, Rs. 34,01,900 had been collected as fine from 26,115 people. Before the lockdown on June 23, 836 people were fined. An official from the Health Department said they fined a minimum of 800 people since late June because many were nonchalant. Collector T. G. Vinay increased the minimum fine from Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 to bring compliance. Although the numbers dropped to around 400 in the beginning of the lockdown, a spike was observed by June 29 as 495 people were fined. The reduction in fine to 292 persons came as a relief, the official said. Deputy Director of Public Health Priya Raj said the lockdown has reduced the scale of levying fine significantly due to restriction in vehicle movement. The rise in cases was a huge push for more people to follow this rule in public, she said. Every pamphlet from the district administration laid stress on hand washing and wearing masks. The Corporation had been making announcements at public places to this effect, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/292-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public-places/article31967512.ece
02 July 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Need for more ambulances||In the wake of rising number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district, there is a need to deploy more ‘108’ ambulances to transport the patients, it is felt. V. Vimal Raj, Programme Manager, GVK- EMRI, said three ambulances for Madurai city and one each for Elumalai and T. Kallupatti had been deployed for catering to COVID-19 positive patients. A driver of the ‘108’ Ambulance Employees’ Welfare Association said the number of vehicles were insufficient to cater to the growing demand and hence they were unable to reach the residences of patients on time. Another driver said a couple of days back, a patient from Iyer Bungalow had placed a request for an ambulance at 3.30 p.m. to be dropped at the COVID-19 speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital. “However, due to a large number of cases that I had to attend to, I could pick up the patient only at 11.30 p.m.,” he said. The delay in picking up positive patients often increased their anxiety, said S. Prasanna Kumar whose friend recently had to wait for many hours for an ambulance. “Persons who test positive would want to reach the hospital as soon as possible, as they would want to avoid the spread of infection. Also, many who cannot afford private ambulances are dependent on ‘108’ ambulances,” he said. While some have the means to reach the hospital using their own vehicles, many others need an ambulance, he added. A medical technician, working in one of the ‘108’ ambulances, said bearing the discomfort of wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), they had been picking up many patients every day. “The problem arises when positive patients have to be picked up from interior pockets, when there are already a large number of cases in the city,” he said. Hence, additional ambulances have to be deployed for COVID-19 patients, at least in Melur and Tirumangalam, he added. Mr. Vimal Raj said the district had 30 ambulances, including the five deployed for COVID-19 patients. One ambulance had been sent to Chennai. “Due to rise in demand, we increased the number of COVID-19 ambulances from three to five, a few days back. But we have to attend to other emergencies too. So we assess the need and accordingly deploy vehicles for COVID-19 patients,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-for-more-ambulances/article31967518.ece
02 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||30 new cases||Puducherry recorded 30 new COVID-19 cases, included five in Mahe, on Wednesday. The new cases were confirmed while testing 634 samples (an infection rate of 4.7%). Of the 391 patients in Puducherry, 218 are being treated at the IGMCRI, 111 at Jipmer and 57 in COVID care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-new-cases/article31967158.ece
02 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Missing girl’s body with injuries found in pond||A seven-year-old girl who was reported missing since Tuesday evening was found dead with injuries on her body at Embal village in the district on Wednesday. The girl belonged to the Scheduled Caste community, said the police. The body was found in a dry 'oorani' (a water body) located about 500 metres from the residence of the victim, said police sources. The girl who was playing near her house situated on the Amman Koil Street went missing on Tuesday evening, prompting her parents to launch a search. The girl's father Nagooran lodged a complaint with the Embal police station where a girl missing case was registered. Even as a search for the missing girl was underway on Wednesday, information came from the locals about the body of the minor girl found on the 'oorani'. The victim was a class -II student at the elementary school in Embal. On receipt of information, police personnel rushed to the spot and found the body with injuries and launched a probe. The body was also found with ant bites and was sent to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital for a post mortem which would be held on Thursday. Police sources said blood stains were found a few metres away from the body. Only after completion of post-mortem, the case would be altered accordingly, said the sources. However, the sources said the case was being looked into from various angles including possible sexual assault. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-girls-body-with-injuries-found-in-pond/article31967540.ece
02 July 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||15 lakh saplings to be planted||The district administration has planned to plant 15 lakh saplings to improve green cover of Ramanathapuram. Collector K. Veeraraghava Rao said last year five lakh saplings were planted in all the 429 villages in the district through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. They were being maintained by the workers. Stating that the district had a lot of barren land with thorny bushes, he said providing green cover would also benefit the people. As part of the initiative, all government office premises would have more trees, he said. Mr. Rao inaugurated planting of 1,000 saplings on the Tamil Nadu Special Police XII Battalion premises where construction work was under way. The Collector said the greenery would make it a pleasant place when the police personnel occupy it. Battalion Commandant D. Karthikeyan, Assistant Director and Convenor of District Mineral Foundation Trust K. Vijayaraghavan and co-founder of Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation APJMJ Sheik Saleem were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted/article31967500.ece
02 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Traders demand alternative place to run their business||Demanding alternative place for running their business, traders at Chinna Kadai Veedhi, where 19 traders tested positive and the street was sealed, staged road roko here on Wednesday. There are over 400 shops selling vegetables, fruits and groceries on the street where 19 traders tested positive. Corporation officials asked all the traders to close their shops and barricades were erected. But traders said that due to lockdown, they have lost their livelihood in the past two months and closure of shops again would result in loss for them. Police personnel pacified them and asked them to cooperate with the officials in controlling the spread of the virus. But traders wanted alternative place to be provided so that they could relocate their business. Since the rainy season is to begin, they wanted the shops to be located in a protective environment. Corporation officials and the police said that further talks would be conducted. Later, traders withdrew their protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-demand-alternative-place-to-run-their-business/article31967207.ece
02 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Cotton cultivators in delta districts in dire straits||Cotton cultivators in delta districts are in dire straits as their expectations of a good price for their produce have been belied. They say the price quoted by traders during auctions conducted at regulated markets last year encouraged many of them to take up cotton cultivation in February this year. Consequently, the total area under the crop has almost doubled in delta districts. However, as they started plucking cotton for sale through regulated markets, their hopes for better price were shattered when they learnt that Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) was unlikely to take part in the auctions. But persistent pleas from cultivators through district authorities appear to have helped persuade CCI to alter its decision. The corporation has procured some quantity of cotton through auctions under its procurement norms. The rejected lots, sought at throw away prices by traders, have dashed hopes of better price realisation, farmers say. The bids quoted by traders have declined sharply from the minimum support price of Rs. 5,250 (fixed for the last season), points out P.R. Pandian, president, Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu. He attributes it to nexus between a few officials at regulated markets and traders, who are quoting only Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 3,500 per quintal. The governments must intervene and ensure better price for the produce to save cotton cultivators, he says. P.S. Masilamani, Tiruvarur district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, echoes him. Cultivators are finding themselves in a piquant situation as they can neither safely stock the cotton for sale on a later date nor accept offers from traders. The association has called upon the State government to procure cotton offering minimum support price. A demonstration will be held in front of the District Collectorate at Tiruvarur in the first week of July in support of the demand, it warns. Meanwhile, a press release from the Thanjavur district administration says around 950 tonnes of cotton has been auctioned at regulated markets in Kumbakonam, Thirupanandhal and Papanasam since June 3. Cotton with a moisture content of 12% has been procured by CCI at the markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cotton-cultivators-in-delta-districts-in-dire-straits/article31967552.ece
02 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Tailor arrested for murder of senior citizen||The Nachiarkovil police have arrested a local tailor for the murder of a 68-year-old man on Tuesday night. Police said Saravanan, 48, rented one of the shops owned by Abhinav Theertha Mutt at Nachiyarkovil for his tailoring business. Gopalan, 68, who was a manager in the mutt, was in charge of the shops. Since the tenants, including Saravanan, did not pay rent for months, the mutt initiated legal proceedings and got an order in its favour. While most of the tenants vacated the shops, Saravanan insisted that he be allowed to carry on his business. Perceiving that Gopalan was instrumental for termination of his tenancy, he came to the senior citizen’s house around 7 p.m. on Tuesday and picked up a wordy duel with him. During the altercation, he suddenly whipped out a knife and attacked the elderly man. Gopalan was declared dead on arrival at Government District Headquarters Hospital at Kumbakonam. Saravanan was subsequently arrested by police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tailor-arrested-for-murder-of-senior-citizen/article31967543.ece
02 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Police station shifted to marriage hall||The Madukkur police station in Pattukottai taluk has been shifted temporarily to a nearby marriage hall after a policeman attached to the station tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources, the police personnel suffered from high fever and cold last week and underwent testing. He tested positive and was admitted at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. The police station was shifted to a nearby marriage hall to facilitate sanitisation operations by the local body, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-station-shifted-to-marriage-hall/article31967510.ece
02 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Age restriction for entry into places of worship in rural areas||Entry of devotees into places of worship in rural areas have been restricted to persons in the age group of above 10 years and below 60. According to a press release, children below the age of 10 and senior citizens will not be allowed to enter places of worship in rural areas in Thanjavur district. The shrines have been thrown open to devotees after relaxation of lockdown norms announced by the State government. The announcement has made it clear that devotees will be allowed to enter and offer prayers only at places of worship in rural areas having an annual income of Rs. 10,000. Further, the relaxed norm will not be applicable to places of worship if they are located in containment zones in rural areas. In order to implement the State government’s directions, administrative committees will be formed at places of worship in rural areas with local residents as members to ensure that devotees wear face masks and maintain social distancing norms. Handwash facility The committees should also ensure that handwashing facility is made available and devotees clean their hands while entering and moving out of the premises, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/age-restriction-for-entry-into-places-of-worship-in-rural-areas/article31967545.ece
02 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extended with further relaxation in Thanjavur district, says Collector||The lockdown with relaxations has been extended up to July 31 as per the directions issued by the State government. Collector M. Govinda Rao told reporters that the lockdown in Thanjavur district being implemented with certain relaxations has been extended till July 31 with some more relaxation. As per the instructions received from the State Secretariat, from July 1 onwards the industrial and export-oriented units and information technology-related units functioning in the State but not located in containment zones are allowed to function with 100 percent staff. However, in the IT sector it is advised to ensure that 20% of the staff is allowed to work from home. Tea shops, eateries, vegetable shops, and grocery shops can function from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. from July 6. TASMAC outlets and other shops are allowed to function between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. The e-commerce business establishments have been allowed to carry on their usual business of delivering goods including the essential commodities. The meat, poultry and egg shops are required to ensure their customers practice social distancing norms while making the purchase. All showrooms, except shopping malls, can function with 50 % workers without switching on the air-conditioned facility and with the restriction of customers inside the premises. Only five customers shall be allowed to enter the premises at a time and wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing should be ensured. Total lockdown will be observed on all Sundays in the month of July and public and private transport services will remain suspended till July 15. As far as the marriage and death-related events, the number of participants should not exceed 50. Educational institutions shall remain closed but online classes are allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extended-with-further-relaxation-in-thanjavur-district-says-collector/article31967546.ece
02 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||687 fishermen stranded in Iran arrive by ship||In the fourth mission carried out by the Indian Navy under ‘Operation Samudra Setu,’ 687 fishermen stranded in Iran were brought to the VOC Port here on Wednesday. After immigration check and medical screening, the returnees were sent to their respective districts by buses. Of this, 514 were from Kanniyakumari district, 33 from Thoothukudi and 38 from neighbouring Kerala. Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju, Collector Sandeep Nanduri and Chairman of VOC Port T.K. Ramachandran received the returnees as they got down from INS Jalashwa which left Bandar Abbas in Iran on June 25. Returnees from Thoothukudi and Kerala were taken to isolation camps where their blood and throat swabs were collected, others were sent to their districts. INS Jalashwa brought 713 Indians stranded in Sri Lanka on June 2, and 700 Indians from the Maldives on June 7. INS Airawat brought 198 Indians from the Maldives on June 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/687-fishermen-stranded-in-iran-arrive-by-ship/article31967496.ece
02 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to probe custodial deaths||Inspector-General of Police, CB-CID, Shankar, who arrived here on Wednesday along with Superintendent of Police Vijayakumar, said the CB-CID had commenced investigation in the morning into the custodial deaths of Sattankulam businessmen Jayaraj and his son Benicks. Sources in the CB-CID said over 10 teams were assisting DSP Anilkumar, who has been entrusted with the investigation. Over 40 personnel, including two more DSPs and 11 inspectors, have fanned out to different parts of the district. Discussions held Earlier, Mr. Shankar and Mr. Vijayakumar held comprehensive discussions about the investigation at the Sattankulam police station. Mr. Anilkumar, who met the family members of Jayaraj, gathered information pertaining to the case from them. As the CB-CID team, including Mr. Shankar and Mr. Vijayakumar, returned to Thoothukudi around 7 p.m., Deputy Inspector General of Police (Tirunevleli Range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Thoothukudi SP S. Jayakumar had discussions. “Since the case is likely to be altered into a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code following the observations of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh and four constables, all attached to the Sattankulam police station, have gone underground.” To locate whereabouts “Special teams have been formed by the CB-CID to locate their whereabouts,” police sources said. Later in the day, the case was altered to that of murder. Meanwhile, Kovilpatti judicial magistrate-1 M.S. Bharathidasan continued his inquiry at the Tiruchendur Government Guest House, where he recorded the statements of a good number of witnesses, including Vinila, the doctor of the Sattankulam Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-probe-custodial-deaths/article31967181.ece
02 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||SP assumes office||Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar assumed office here on Wednesday. He succeeds Arun Balagopalan who has been shunted out and kept in ‘compulsory wait’ following the custodial death of Jayaraj and his son Benicks in Sattankulam. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Jayakumar, who was hitherto SP of Villupuram district, said he would strive to ensure better relationship between the police and the public by maintaining better law and order situation.Special efforts would be made to reduce road accidents by stringently enforcing road traffic rules.While all-out efforts would be taken to curb crimes, criminals who went underground would be nabbed, Mr. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-assumes-office/article31967505.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door fever screening as Tiruchi tops with 31 fresh cases||Tiruchi Corporation has begun door-to-door surveillance to identify residents with fever symptoms in accordance with recommendations of the expert committee set up to contain the spread of COVID-19. The civic body has purchased 65 thermal guns and distributed them to bill collectors of each of the 65 wards in the city. The bill collector will go to a minimum of 50 residences daily and ask residents about their travel and health history. They will check the temperature of all occupants of a house and record the details, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu . The exercise, which began on Monday, will help in identifying and controlling clusters of the novel coronavirus. “Earlier, the effort was limited to collecting details. Now, we have included active screening,” he said. “In areas such as Varaganeri, Nadu Guzilli Street and Thillai Nagar, many from within containment areas tested positive. In other districts, the source of the infection was mostly imported and it was spreading among immediate contacts in Tiruchi,” he added. In April, anganwadi workers, women self-help groups and volunteers were pressed into action to conduct door-to-door surveys of residents, their age groups and pre-existing ailments. Now, the bill collectors will primarily check for fever symptoms. “The volunteers continue to do these checks in a selective manner. The bill collectors, however, will check every household in their ward, especially children under the age of 10 and adults over 50 years,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. Within containment zones, fever checks are being done daily by health officials of the corporation. The checks begin at 7 a.m. and residents are givenkabasura kudineerfor consumption in empty stomach. They are also given vitamin tablets to increase immunity. “As there are complaints of residents in containment zones stepping outside, police presence has been stepped up,” the civic chief added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-fever-screening-as-tiruchi-tops-with-31-fresh-cases/article31967558.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 159 fresh cases||The central region on Wednesday recorded 159 fresh cases of COVID-19. Tiruchi reported the highest 31, while Pudukottai was close second with 30. It was 13 in Tiruvarur, seven in Thanjavur, nine in Nagapattinam, four in Karur and one in Ariyalur. Perambalur did not report any new cases. In Tiruchi, 31 patients tested positive and were admitted to MGMGH on Wednesday. They belonged to areas identified as vulnerable such as Varaganeri, K.K. Nagar and Thillai Nagar. The total number of cases is 701 now. As on Tuesday, Ponmalai zone had the highest number of cases. Rural areas such as Thuvakudi, Uppilliapuram, and Musiri also reported new cases. Collector S. Sivarasu said 14 patients, including 10 from Tiruchi, and one each from Erode, Pudukottai, Vellore and Kerala were discharged from MGMGH. The patients were sent to their homes in ‘108’ ambulances. At the COVID care centre situated on Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University, 12 patients, including nine from Tiruchi and one each from Kancheepuram, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi, were discharged. They were asymptomatic and recovered soon, officials said. Meanwhile, samples were lifted from 42 vegetable and fruit vendors at Madhuram ground temporary market on Wednesday. “While contact tracing, some of the patients in the locality said they purchased vegetables at the market. To avoid any risks, we immediately asked officials to lift samples,” a senior health official said. As on Wednesday, there were a total of 281 active cases in Tiruchi. Among them 139 were at Tiruchi GH, 74 at the COVID Care Centre in Bharathidasan University, 36 at Kauvery Hospitals, 11 at Tiruchi SRM Medical College Hospital, nine at Sindhuja Hospital in Manapparai, seven at Apollo Hospital in Tiruchi, two at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital, and one each at Vellore, Virudhunagar and Salem. Of the 30 who tested positive in Pudukottai on Wednesday, 13 were men. Young boys aged 1, 5, 4, 10 and a girl aged 10 were among the 30. All were admitted to Government Medical College Hospital in Pudukottai for treatment. “Most of the patients who tested positive returned from other districts or are immediate family members of those who returned,” a senior doctor at the GH said. In Nagapattinam, where nine patients tested positive, three cases were local contacts of those who tested positive. The remaining were three returnees from Telangana, one from Tiruvarur and one from Madurai. All were stable and responding well to treatment. Thirteen new cases were reported in Tiruvarur, while seven were reported in Thanjavur. In Karur, four patients tested positive. Among them were three men aged 23, 48 and 35. They were admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital. The sole patient who tested positive in Ariyalur is a man from Chennai. He was admitted to Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. Of the 463 patients who tested positive in Ariyalur district, 417 recovered and were discharged. Of the active cases, 29 were undergoing treatment at Ariyalur GH, 12 at Tiruchi GH, three at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, one at a private hospital in Chennai and one at Tiruchi SRM Medical College Hospital. Four from other districts were also under treatment in Ariyalur. Meanwhile, a total of 350 new throat swabs were lifted from patients, who were suffering from cold and fever, and from contacts of those who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-159-fresh-cases/article31967559.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Noon meal workers worried about decline in quality of stock||Noon meal workers have raised concerns about deterioration in the quality of the stocked provisions in the free meal centres attached to the panchayat union schools over the last three months after the COVID-19 lockdown took effect. The cooking oil has a shelf life of only three months, and at very many centres, the stocked rice and dal have begun to rot. The provisions will have to be discarded in the interests of the health of the children, if the noon meal centres are not permitted to resume operations, Rajendran, Secretary of Tiruchi unit of Tamil Nadu Noon Meal Workers' Association said. A decision was taken at the State-level meeting of the Association earlier this week to conduct protests in front of the Panchayat Union Offices on July 7 demanding resumption of the operation of noon meal centres, Mr. Rajendran said. Protest The protest has been prompted by the purported move by the government to transfer cash to the families of the beneficiary children during the lockdown period. The amount the government intends to transfer to the families of the children is meagre, as the value of provisions already supplied to the noon meal centres is not taken into consideration. The sanctioned amount for vegetables and groceries alone is intended to be given to the families. It works out to less than Rs. 2 per day per individual child, for standards I to V and below Rs. 3 per day for every child from VI to X standards. "The scenario in the villages is quite pathetic as the families are unable to provide even one square meal to the children.The government must let us do the cooking and permit the students to take the food home for consumption by following the social distancing norms," Mr. Rajendran said. In doing so, the noon meal workers will also have a sense of participation in ameliorating the sufferings of the socioeconomic downtrodden people in the villages, he said. The line of thinking of noon meal workers is that the government could even think of dovetailing the activities of the community kitchens in rural areas with the functioning of the noon meal centres. Several thousands of families in villagess will be relieved from worry of hunger if the noon meal centres are permitted to cook food for the families of the student beneficiaries , Mr. Rajendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/noon-meal-workers-worried-about-decline-in-quality-of-stock/article31967542.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Commuters badly hit by lack of bus services||Employees, who depend on public transport to travel between home and workplace, have been badly hit by suspension of bus services by the State government. While the transport services have been suspended, offices continue to function, they point out. K. Durga, a software engineer and resident of Thillai Nagar, has been travelling by bus to her place of work in Thuraiyur from June 1. However, since the suspension of bus services on Wednesday, she is forced to go by her two-wheeler. “I travel at least 90 km a day. While travelling by bus, I can sit down and relax after a long day in office. Now, I have to travel alone. The government should reconsider the ban, or at least close down workplaces,” she says. Meanwhile, some are being fleeced by private taxis and auto-rickshaws. R. Muthazagi, who works at Subramaniapuram, says she paid Rs. 500 for an autorickshaw from her house in Lalgudi. “Ever since we began work, the buses have been irregular. Over the last month, I have hailed an auto-rickshaw at least 10 times. If I do not go to work, they cut my salary. We are in such a dilemma,” she says. The bus fare is only 1% of the cost of an auto-rickshaw, she points out.. Some government officials with the PWD, Revenue Department and others have hired a private van to drop and pick them up. The driver charges Rs. 200 per day, which is nominal in comparison to the exorbitant prices quoted by autos and cabs, they say. People unable to afford autorickshaws or taxis resort to hitching rides on minivans, mini trucks or walk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commuters-badly-hit-by-lack-of-bus-services/article31967556.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water supply to Srirangam cut short||Tiruchi Corporation has curtailed supply of drinking water to residents of Srirangam and Thiruvanaikovil from twice a day to once from Tuesday. Residents of Wards 1 to 6 in Srirangam and Thiruvanaikovil, who receive supply from the Kollidam riverbed, will be supplied water only in the morning. The move follows a drop in yield at source, a Corporation press release said. The cutback has come as a surprise especially in the wake of a comfortable drinking water supply situation in the city. Besides, the peak summer season is nearing its end. However, it may be recalled that the civic body resorted to a similar step in July last, citing continuous dry weather and extended summer. Though water has been released in the Cauvery, the Kollidam continues to remain bone dry as construction of a new barrage across the river is in progress at Mukkombu. This has resulted in a drop in yield for the scheme, which supplies water to the six wards, a senior civic official said. Though the Srirangam scheme is designed to pump about 15 million litres a day (MLD), about 10-12 MLD will be pumped normally. “As the yield has dropped below this level, we face difficulty in filling up the 10 overhead tanks in the six wards, especially those located at the tail-end of the distribution network,” the officer said. This is only a temporary measure and once the Kollidam gets a wetting, the twice-a-day supply will be restored, officials said, urging residents to use the water judiciously. Several other parts of the city also get supply from the Drinking Water Supply Augmentation Scheme with its source on the Kollidam. They have receiving supply only once a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-to-srirangam-cut-short/article31967553.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||RPF woman constable recruits regather at training centre in Tiruchi||Three months after their training was suspended in the wake of the pandemic, woman constable recruits from various parts of the country have begun regathering at the RPF Zonal Training Centre at Khajamalai, as the programme is likely to resume soon. Since June 27, the recruits have been arriving in batches from Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu by train and flight. So far, 380 out of the total 393 have reported at the centre. Arrangements have been made to bring them to the venue by buses from Chennai and Tiruchi airports after obtaining permission from the district administration, a RPF officer said. All recruits are under quarantine for 14 days after being screened by medical teams. Those from north India travelled by New Delhi-Chennai Rajdhani Express to reach Tamil Nadu during the lockdown. A few more are expected to arrive soon. The recruits are in barracks, with personal distancing norms in place. They do yoga to keep themselves mentally and physically fit during the quarantine. The exact date of resumption of training will be known after getting permission from the Railway Board, New Delhi, and informing the district administration. This is the first time that the zonal training centre in Tiruchi is imparting training on a mass scale to nearly 400 woman constable recruits of the Railway Protection Force. The eight-month training schedule began on November 1 last. A team was drawn from various ranks of the RPF to impart training on several subjects to the recruits. This included theory classes on law, crime, security, railway working system, and psychology. The outdoor session comprised parade and handling of various types of weapons including pistol, INSAS and AK-47 rifle. The training had to be suspended in late March due to the lockdown clamped across the country, forcing the recruits to return to their native states. A similar programme that was underway for another batch of 300 woman constable recruits on the RPF Special Force V Battalion premises here was also suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-woman-constable-recruits-regather-at-training-centre-in-tiruchi/article31967561.ece
02 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Concern grows over online classes||With the new academic year looming ahead, private CBSE schools are drawing daily schedules for online classes. Parents, however, appear to have mixed feelings on the evolving virtual teacher-student interface. One section appreciates the idea of engaging the children with purposeful tasks instead of letting them idle away the lockdown period. Then, there are others who worry about the long-term impact of online classes on the health of their wards. At the institutional level, government and aided schools find themselves stranded because the online mode is not viable for many of their students, who come from a lower socio-economic strata. CBSE schools, on the other hand, have easily switched over to online classes. Heads of CBSE schools do not feel bound by the State government’s directive on online classes, citing the encouragement received from the Ministry of Human Resource Development In fact, CBSE has already launched e-content of most of the subjects on Diksha platform of HRD Ministry. On its advice, many teachers attended an online training programme to adapt themselves to the virtual system, said the principal of a CBSE school in Tiruchi district. Only some schools have taken cognisance of the parents’ concern by restricting the duration of sessions to less than two hours a day. “The consequences of conducting online classes for lengthy duration will be multi-fold. The rigid posture of students in front of the laptops, computers or smart phones is bound to cause complications to the eyes and neck and also ears due to use of headphones or ear phones. Occurrence of refractory errors in the eyes will become inevitable,” M.A. Aleem, senior neurologist and former vice-principal of K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital, said. Ideally, there must be a 10-minute break for every 20-minute session to prevent such complications. Schools need to realise that extending the concept of classroom practice of 45-minute sessions will be detrimental to the health of students, Dr. Aleem said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-grows-over-online-classes/article31967563.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellers to restrict working hours||The Tiruchi Jewellers Association has decided to reduce the working hours of jewellery marts in the city in view of the COVID- 19 pandemic. A decision to this effect was taken at an emergency Executive Committee meeting of the association held on Wednesday. The meeting was convened in the wake of steep rise in number of COVID-19 cases among the people living along the residential and commercial streets along the Big Bazaar Street and Chinnakadai Street. N. Chandrasekaran, president and G. Damodharan, secretary of the association, said it had been unanimously decided to restrict the working hours of jewellery shops to 10 a.m. and 4 pm. The new timing would be in force until July 15. The decision had been conveyed to owners of about 400 jewellery shops. All small, medium and largescale showrooms would function to restricted working hours. The decision was taken to safeguard the traders, employees, customers and their family members from the danger of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellers-to-restrict-working-hours/article31967547.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi gets new CoP||Inspector General of Police J. Loganathan assumed charge as the Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, on Wednesday. He succeeds V. Varadharaju, who retired on superannuation on Tuesday. In a press release, Mr. Loganathan said he would accord priority to effective maintenance of law and order, curb crimes and road accidents besides taking efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. Public can send their written complaints to the City Police Office Whatsapp number 96262-73399 through the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) if the jurisdictional Inspector of Police fails to act. Action on such complaints will be initiated speedily. An acknowledgement message will be sent to the mobile number if the complaint is sent through Whatsapp. Depending on the nature of the complaint, the complainants will be given ID to express their grievance through video conference. The Commissioner said the public can reach him on his mobile number 98844-47581 directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gets-new-cop/article31967551.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Due process followed in admission: MGMGH||Video clips of patients apparently waiting at the entrance of the COVID-19 ward at MGMGH here went viral on social media on Wednesday. In a video clips, a mother and child is seen waiting at the entrance of ward at the hospital, apparently for admission. The videographer asks: “Why are you waiting here? Are they not taking you inside?” The woman replies that she has been waiting for around 45 minutes. A similar account of a couple of patients waiting for admission were also circulated on social media platforms. When contacted, R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said due procedure was being followed. “Patients have to wait for a short duration until their details are noted down and a bed is allotted. Patients, who are unable to understand the situation, are making the claims.” Dr. Yeganathan said that such baseless allegations would demotivate doctors. “We are doing everything we can,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/due-process-followed-in-admission-mgmgh/article31967560.ece
02 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No clarity on evaluation process||While college heads are not unduly anxious about reopening their institutions due to challenges in enforcing social distancing norms, they are looking for clarity on evaluation process for even semester examinations. The Ministry of Human Resources Development and University Grants Commission have suggested that examination for final year students be conducted after improvement in situation. First and second year students can be evaluated on the basis of internal assessment and awarded a composite grade based on their performance during the previous year. Now, the college heads are keen to know the stand of the State Higher Education Department. The institutions have been closed for three months now and teachers and parents do not see the possibility of students of first and intermediate years returning to the campus to appear for ‘paper and pen’ exam. “It will be rather tough to enforce physical distancing either in classrooms or hostels,” S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal, Jamal Mohamed College, says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-clarity-on-evaluation-process/article31967566.ece
02 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cash relief given to constable’s kin||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan gave away Rs. 50,000 as cash assistance to the kin of the deceased police constable T. Prabu at his native village of Kallapalayam in Gudimangalam block in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. Prabu, an Armed Reserve constable, was killed by a speeding truck at Thittuparai check-post in Kangeyam on Monday night. Mr. Radhakrishnan visited the family members to express his condolences and gave away the cash assistance from his personal fund, a press release said. The State government will provide all the required assistance to the family members, he assured. Mr. Radhakrishnan instructed the district administration officials and Tiruppur district police to ensure safety of the police personnel deployed at check-posts. Steps to control the speed of incoming vehicles, such as setting up of speed-breakers, must be undertaken across the district, the Minister said. Meanwhile, police sources from Tiruppur district police said that the truck driver Baskaran, who was arrested by Kangeyam police following the accident, was released on bail on Monday. Reasons for his rash driving and whether he was inebriated could not be ascertained. The driver was arrested under sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. In an effort to reduce such accidents in the future, reflective jackets would be made mandatory for all police personnel deployed at check-posts and more reflective lights would be installed at check-posts in Tiruppur district, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-relief-given-to-constables-kin/article31967213.ece
02 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||No grand celebrations for Vinayaka Chathurthi this year: Hindu Munnani||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, no grand celebrations for Vinayaka Chathurthi will be organised in the State this year, said State president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam on Wednesday. “There will be no processions and no collection of donation from the public this year,” he told reporters in Tiruppur. The Hindu Munnani members will spend their own money to set up around 1.5 lakh idols of Lord Ganesh across the State, but no meetings or any celebratory events will be organised to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “We will comply with the directions given by the State government,” Mr. Subramaniam said. He also requested the public to make idols of the deity using turmeric on the festival day (August 22) and dissolve it in water to sprinkle in front of their houses. As turmeric is a disinfectant, this will help in preventing the spread of the disease, according to Mr. Subramaniam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-grand-celebrations-for-vinayaka-chathurthi-this-year-hindu-munnani/article31967214.ece
02 July 2020||Tiruppur/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Adulterated tea dust seized||Officials from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) seized adulterated tea dust weighing 95 kg from a godown in Tiruppur Corporation limits on Wednesday. Officials led by Designated Officer B. Vijayalalithambigai found the tea dust during an inspection. Three booked The Forest Department on Wednesday apprehended three persons who allegedly attempted to hunt hare. Officials said they attempted to trap hare using net at Devarayapuram on Wednesday. They were released after collecting a fine of Rs. 5,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adulterated-tea-dust-seized/article31967203.ece
02 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard photograph ignites ethics debate on wildlife photography and news reporting||A problematic incident of human-leopard interaction in the Nilgiris has put the spotlight firmly on the ethics of wildlife photography and news reporting on the sighting of wildlife in the district. What started as an incidental sighting of a leopard by a wildlife photographer near Coonoor has quickly snowballed into a contentious issue after a woman was injured during a confrontation with a leopard in the area on Tuesday. The photographer ,who took the picture, told The Hindu that she spotted a leopard at a distance, and spent a couple of minutes photographing the animal. She then subsequently shared the picture on social media. “I did not mention the exact location in the post, but did so in some of the comments,” said the photographer, unmindful that this trivial bit of information would inadvertently lead to a series of unintended consequences that would get the forest department involved in the matter. Following the post on social media, journalists accessed the photographer’s page, and began sharing images of the leopard on mobile messaging applications, while a few reporters also published stories, claiming that the leopard posed a threat to humans in the area. “None of the people who shared the pictures or published stories got the permission of the photographer in question, which in itself is highly unethical, and compounded the matter by mentioning the exact location where the picture was taken,” said a prominent wildlife photographer in the Nilgiris. What followed was inevitable – over the course of the next few days, a trickle of curious onlookers turned into a torrent of people, with up to 15 people camping near the rock where the leopard was spotted to try and catch a glimpse of the animal. Due to the increased footfall in the area, the leopard stopped venturing onto his favourite rock over the last few days, but on Tuesday, an unfortunate incident occurred. A tea estate worker, who was collecting leaves in the area, was charged at by a female leopard which was trying to protect its cubs. The woman ran, but is said to have tripped, fallen and injured her leg, resulting only in minor injuries. Irate villagers, who had not had any problems with the leopards, began blaming the wildlife photographers, claiming the disturbance they were causing had resulted in the attack. “We have taken the comments of local residents on board, and have asked them to inform us if any people come to take pictures and disturb the animals,” said S.M.Sasikumar, Forest Range Officer, Coonoor Range. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, said that the forest department would identify locations across the division popular with wildlife photographers, to prevent a repeat of the incident. “From now onwards, we will impose fines on any people who are trying to photograph the leopards,” added Mr. Sasikumar. Chandrasekhar Das, a conservationist working with the Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri, said that it was important that both wildlife photographers as well as journalists avoid revealing the exact locations where wildlife is spotted, as not only could this lead to unnecessary attention from people wanting to catch a glimpse of the animal, but also from poachers. “Nowadays, we all have smart phones and more people have the equipment to take pictures, so it’s important that we are all in tune with the ethical implications of photographing wild animals,” said Mr. Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-photograph-ignites-ethics-debate-on-wildlife-photography-and-news-reporting/article31967220.ece
02 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Parties oppose posting of police officials||A meeting of the Opposition parties held here on Wednesday condemned the posting of the police officers, being investigated for the Sattankulam custodial deaths, in the Nilgiris and Pudukottai. In a statement, the Opposition parties – the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Congress, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of Inida (Marxist), Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Indian Union Muslim League, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and the Dravidar Kazhagam – said they were opposed to the posting of police officers C. Prathaban as Deputy Superintendent of Police, Anti-land grabbing cell, Pudukkottai district, and D. Kumar as Additional Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, the Nilgiris district. A statement from the DMK said that DSP Prathaban and ADSP Kumar should be placed under suspension and their transfer orders rescinded, failing which the DMK and other Opposition parties would stage protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-oppose-posting-of-police-officials/article31967224.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram hospitals to get 1,500 additional beds||With 900 beds at COVID-19 health care centres and dedicated COVID-19 care centres available in Ramanathapuram district, the administration is gearing up to get ready an additional 1,559 beds. After inspecting the COVID-19 preventive measures being taken in Ramanathapuram and Paramakudi with District Monitoring Officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav on Wednesday, Collector K.Veera Raghava Rao said guidelines given by the State Health Department were being followed in preparing the centres. As many as 525 doctors and 900 nurses working in 10 government hospitals and 59 primary health centres, along with 2,300 workers, were involved in the fight against COVID-19 in Ramanathapuram district. “We are operating six ambulances. If required, we will increase the number of ambulances and workers,” Mr. Rao said. The Collector said yoga and physical exercise were being encouraged among COVID-19 patients to prevent mental stress in them. Special teams were ensuring that the patients received good food and fruits. Health workers were carrying out door-to-door inspection in the containment zones to find out fever cases. Special care was being taken to disinfect those areas, he said and appealed to the people to avoid unnecessary travel and strictly follow social distancing. Ramanathapuram Sub-Collector N.O. Sugaputhra; Joint Director of Medical Services A. Sahaya Stephenraj; Revenue Divisional Officer of Paramakudi Thangavel; and Dean of Ramanathapuram Government Medical College Hospital Indira were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-hospitals-to-get-1500-additional-beds/article31967498.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||120 test positive in Salem district||As many as 120 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem district on Wednesday. Health officials said that 120 persons in the district, including 42 in the corporation limits tested positive. Also, 16 persons who had returned from other districts tested positive and were admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital here. Thus, a total of 946 persons have, so far, tested positive in the district of which, 655 are undergoing treatment. As many as 45 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday with fresh cases reported from various clusters. Chetti Street became a big cluster of the disease with 13 more cases reported on Wednesday in addition to the three cases reported on Tuesday. Eight more persons from Balan Nagar cluster on Masakalipalayam Road tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. This cluster had around 20 positive cases reported last week, including that of a textile showroom owner and his 18 employees. Four persons from Kalangal Road near Sulur and three persons from Chinnammal Street near Saibaba Colony and two persons from CMC Colony near Ukkadam, five passengers of Saudi Arabia-Coimbatore flight on June 29 and two passengers of Delhi-Coimbatore flight on Tuesday were also among the 45 cases reported. As many as 29 persons, including five children, recovered from the disease and got discharged from Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Wednesday. In  Erode district, a total of 19 persons tested positive taking the total number of cases to 176. Health officials said that 13 cases were reported in corporation limits while three cases were reported in Modakurichi and one case was reported each at Bhavani, Chithode and Perundurai. 18 cases in the Nilgiris Eighteen persons tested positive in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, marking the single largest spike in the number of cases in the district, so far. With the latest infections, the number of cases increased from 89 to 107 on Wednesday. The Nilgiris district administration stated that 17 of the 18 patients were secondary infections of a Public Relations Officer working at a private firm in Yellanalli. The other person had gone to Mettupalayam to visit his daughter and is believed to have contracted the infection there. So far, 39 people who have been infected in the Nilgiris have recovered, while 68 people are being treated in the Government Headquarters Hospital in Udhagamandalam and the ESI hospital in Coimbatore. 10 in Tiruppur Tiruppur district saw 10 new positive cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s total number of cases to 188. Six out of these were from Tiruppur Corporation limits, Health Department sources said. A 26-year-old man, a 23-year-old woman and a 60-year-old woman from Veerapandi, a 57-year-old man from Palayankadu, a 40-year-old woman from Velampalayam and a 24-year-old man from LIC Colony tested positive. Other four cases were a 12-year-old boy and a 32-year-old man from Avinashi, a 47-year-old man from Palladam and a 29-year-old woman from Kangeyam. All these cases had travel histories, sources said. Meanwhile, two cases reported on Tuesday were cross-notified to Madurai and Tirunelveli districts on Wednesday. A total of 772 swab samples were lifted across the district on Wednesday, according to the sources. Out of the 188 total number of cases in Tiruppur district, 117 patients have recovered and 70 are active cases. The State government’s media bulletin issued on Wednesday did not declare the death of a COVID-19 positive patient from the district reported on June 24. Dharmapuri district recorded five cases on Wednesday taking the total number of cases to 89. Those infected include a 29-year-old painter, who had returned from Bengaluru; a 26- year-old man, who had returned from Hyderabad, a 55-year-old man with a travel history to Bengaluru, a 50-year-old man from A.Jettyhalli, and a 19-year-old youth with varied travel history. Krishnagiri recorded eight cases that included a police personnel, who had recently taken charge as jail warden and a 10-year-old girl, who is a contact from an infected person. Three cases were reported on Wednesday. There are a total of five containment zones in the district. In its wake, the administration has beefed up quarantine monitoring in addition to strengthening the inter-State borders and inter-district border check-posts. In Namakkal district , three persons tested positive taking the total number of cases to 99 in the district. Two persons were working in railway track maintenance division in The Nilgiris and were admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore while one person, a resident of Salem, was admitted to Govt. Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-test-positive-in-salem-district/article31967195.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 care centre to be set up at CODISSIA complex||The district administration would, in a day or two, set up COVID-19 care centre at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex, off Avinashi Road, to house COVID-19 positive persons showing no symptoms. Collector K. Rajamani told The Hindu that the administration would house the centre in Hall D at the complex by setting up 400 beds. It chose the complex as it was an ideal place to house the persons – who were asymptomatic – as it was a well-contained place with good ventilation, away from households and had the scope of expansion, if required. The administration would man the centre with doctors from the Department of Public Health and the Coimbatore Corporation, who would in shifts be there 24x7 providing care to the asymptomatic persons. Two tests At the end of the care period – a week to 10 days – the administration would conduct two tests in a gap of three to five days and if both the tests showed negative result, the administration would discharge them one by one. The reason for setting up the centre was to reduce the burden on resources, including doctors and paramedical staff, at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, where, from now on only COVID-19 positive persons with symptoms would be treated. The move to set up the centre was also a part of the strategy to gear up the district machinery and treatment facility if there were to be a spike in Coimbatore, Mr. Rajamani said and pointed to the rise in the number of positive cases in the recent past. Aside from the ESI Hospital, which had around 400 beds, the administration had kept ready nearly 3,000 beds in private and governments ready to meet any eventuality, he added. Health Department sources said that the administration had at present a COVID-19 Care Centre at the Coimbatore Corporation School in Uppilipalayam, where it treated the asymptomatic persons.  (With inputs from   Wilson Thomas)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-care-centre-to-be-set-up-at-codissia-complex/article31967190.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Smart swab collecting robot to be incubated||For 30-year-old V. Karthi, who has built a prototype of a COVID-19 smart swab collecting robot, Wednesday opened up an opportunity to take forward his innovation. D. Santhosh Babu, the monitoring officer for Dharmapuri to check the spread of COVID-19, was contacted by Karthi, and he was very positive about the innovation. Dr. Babu also posted a message on Facebook about the innovation. “We should be encouraging such amazing youngsters...the entire process of testing can be automated. He may need conveyer belts to transport a tray full of test tubes, on which a barcode can be stuck...this can be linked to the Aadhaar card of the patient through a camera, so that we give the right result to the right patient.” He added that it could be installed in Dharmapuri and based on the usage, further improvements can be made. “Healthcare personnel find it difficult to wear the PPE for long hours when they collect samples. The robot will cost less and will be safe to use. But it has be a fully automated solution. Forge Accelerator ( an incubation facility for startups in Coimbatore), will help Mr. Karthi develop the product," he told The Hindu over phone. To be evaluated "The machine has to be evaluated. If it satisfies the basic requirements, it can be installed. I will see the product over video call. It is promising. May need to be improved a bit. But it is likely to be ready for installation shortly," he said. When contacted, Mr. Karthi expressed his happiness regarding this development and said that he was happy that Dr. Babu was all ears when he contacted him. The device was made in an inexpensive budget,” he said, noting that the prototype cost only around Rs. 2,000. And it was developed in just three days. Ahead of his meeting with officials from Forge on Thursday, Mr. Karthi said that the cost of the final product will be decided only after its completion. The prototype will be upgraded based on consultations with medical and engineering experts, he said. According to Vishwanathan Sahasranamam, Chief Executive Officer of Forge Accelerator, Forge will support the innovator for about six months with all the resources and also a grant. "We will put him through an accelerated product development programme. It may be developed into a robot. We have studied a similar product developed in South Korea. Because of the precautionary measures that need to be taken, it will need human intervention and cannot be completely automated. A deployable solution will be ready in a couple of weeks. To become manufacturing ready, it will take another couple of months," he said.  (With inputs from   R. Akileish)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-swab-collecting-robot-to-be-incubated/article31967197.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Doctor’s Day: medical fraternity’s service comes in for high praise||The medical fraternity's selfless service and their dedication in battling COVID-19 pandemic on the frontline came in for high appreciation from Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari on the occasion of Doctor's Day, which was celebrated here on Wednesday. In a move aimed at encouraging doctors serving at the COVID-19 centre at Government Ranees Hospital, the Collector expressed her wishes to them and handed fruit baskets appreciating their service to society and saving the lives of the people. The Collector said COVID-19 patients at the hospital were being extended good treatment and provided with nourishing diet for their early recovery. Pudukottai Medical College Dean A. L. Meenakshisundaram, Municipal Commissioner Jeeva Subramanian and others participated in the function at the hospital. Doctor's Day was celebrated at Government Pudukottai Medical College with the organisers inviting Superintendent of Police P. Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar, a doctor. Mr. Sakthi Kumar said doctors too worked round-the-clock like police personnel. Dr. Meenakshisundaram said medical college doctors were attending to COVID-19 duty without shirking their non-COVID duty. Appreciation certificates were given to all frontline COVID-19 warriors including 41 doctors. Dr. Arasa Priya from the Government Primary Health Centre at Neerpalani received the best COVID warrior award on the occasion, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-day-medical-fraternitys-service-comes-in-for-high-praise/article31967549.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||E-pass mandatory for persons entering Erode on foot||With hundreds of people continuing to enter the district on foot everyday, the district police have clarified that e-pass is mandatory for all vehicles and also for persons who enter on foot. Workers from Pallipalayam, Kumarapalayam, Kokkarayanpettai and other areas in Namakkal district are working in various industries in the city and in rural areas. Due to lockdown and in the absence of inter-district bus services, many travel by two-wheelers, while many workers cross the bridges across River Cauvery and enter the district at various places. Check-posts were established at Karungalpalayam, Parisal Thurai, Vendipalayam, Lakshmi Nagar, Bhavani, Noyyal River and at Chennimalai where entry of persons without e-pass are sent back. But, a large number of workers from Pallipalayam reaches Karungalpalayam check-post in the city to proceed towards their destinations. Since vehicles without e-pass were not allowed, many started to enter the district on foot. With hundreds of people entering the district on foot everyday, the police announced that e-pass is mandatory for them. On Wednesday, persons with e-pass were only allowed. However, later, daily earners and workers were allowed after collecting details from them. Officials said that industries should apply for e-pass for their staff and workers or provide accommodation for them at their workplace, if they travel from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-mandatory-for-persons-entering-erode-on-foot/article31967192.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi astro-scientist’s article on space weather published as chapter in book||A new book on science published in the United States of America features a chapter on ‘Space Weather-Sun Earth Relations’ authored by a Tiruchi-based astro-scientist, K. Sundara Raman, formerly scientist at the Kodaikanal Observatory, Indian Institute of Astrophysics. The sixth chapter in the book titled ‘New Insights into Physical Science,’ was a much-discussed topic worldwide among academics and scientists in 2011 when it was contributed as a research paper to the International Journal of Astronomy and Astrophysics, as it sought to quell what Prof. Sundara Raman describes as a “misconception” that the Earth was due to get fried by a solar storm in 2012. There was huge speculation worldwide about the Earth getting destroyed by a solar storm in preceding years. “Monitoring space weather -- the conditions existing between the sun and the Earth -- was important to ensure the safety of spacecrafts. The solar discharge from the sun has the potential to cause explosions of spacecrafts. But there was a misconception that the Earth will get fried by a solar storm. My paper threw light on the fact that the Earth was well protected by the atmosphere, and that the planet will be safe from destruction,” Prof. Sundara Raman said. The new book, he said, will be useful to pre-Ph.D. students to select their field of interest. Articles on space weather published by national and regional dailies had won for Prof. Sundara Raman national and State-level awards. In 2013, Prof. Sundara Raman was honoured with the National Award for ‘Best Professor’ in the field of astrophysics. Earlier in 2010, he had been given the J.C. Bose Award for ‘Outstanding Scientist’ presented by the government. In 2012, the Media Guild Award was presented to him for academic excellence. The retired scientist takes a keen interest in engaging students inquisitive about space science at the Anna Science Centre -- Planetarium in Tiruchi. The publishers of ‘New Insights into Physical Science’ had recently secured the consent of Prof. Sundara Raman to include the chapter in the book. The publishers were impressed by the scale in which the article on space weather was circulated widely among the scientific community, in terms of citations and downloads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-astro-scientists-article-on-space-weather-published-as-chapter-in-book/article31967539.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Head Constable booked for forging documents||Ramanathapuram Town police have registered a case of forgery and cheating against head constable M. Murugan for having produced forged documents to illegally claim quota under Most Backward Classes category. Murugan, who was working in Abiramam police station in Kamuthi sub-division of Ramanathapuram district, is working in Madurai rural district. Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police Varun Kumar said he received a complaint through WhatsApp about the forgery committed by Murugan when he joined the State police in April 1997. Inquiry revealed that he had forged the certificate of another person and claimed that it was his father’s. “Both the Kamuthi DSP and Tahsildar have given their reports about the forged documents,” the SP said. He had changed his father’s name and caste even in educational documents, he added. The forged documents showed the age difference between the Head Constable and his father to be just 12 years, the SP said. He has been booked under four Sections of Indian Penal Code for cheating and forgery. People can alert Ramanathapuram SP about criminal activities over 94899 19722 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-booked-for-forging-documents/article31967501.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nursing Assistant tests positive||A male nursing assistant attached to the District Jail, Nagapattinam, was admitted to the isolation ward of the government hospital after testing positive on Wednesday. Swab samples had been taken from seven inmates, warden and police personnel posted there for testing, sources said. About 35 inmates of the jail had already been shifted to Tiruchi Central jail in two batches on June 27 and 28 for the purpose of disinfecting the entire jail premises. The seven inmates were housed in individual cells in the District Jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nursing-assistant-tests-positive/article31967541.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Looking forlorn||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/looking-forlorn/article31967503.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Now, herbal tea to boost immunity||Minister for Khadi and Village Industries G. Baskaran distributed sona vana swasa herbal tea powder, a siddha drug, to the Collectorate staff and public on Wednesday. The herbal tea powder was distributed through Karaikudi Siddha Health Centre. C. Chockalingam, a siddha practitioner from the centre, said the herbal tea would help boost the immunity of people of all ages. The tea powder had 27 herbs, including aadathoda, thoothuvalai, ginger, turmeric, cardamom, tulsi and pepper. It had to be boiled in water and condensed before consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-herbal-tea-to-boost-immunity/article31967506.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore  Due to monthly maintenance works at Somayampalayam sub-station, there will be no power supply on July 3 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas: Yamuna Nagar, Kalappanaickenpalayam, G.C.T Nagar, K.T.N Palayam, Marutham Nagar, Navavoor Pirivu, Bharathiar University, Somayampalayam, Vasantham Nagar, IOB Colony, Maruthamalai, Agarwal Road, Kanuvai, K.N.G Pudur and Thadagam Road.  Erode  Due to maintenance work at Thanneerpandal and Avalpoondurai sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 2, Thursday, at Avalpoondurai, Kanagapuram, Thuyyam Poondurai, Poondurai Semur, Palliyuthu, Thirumangalam, Vettukattuvalasu, Velampalayam, Rattaisutri Palayam, KAS Industries, Solipalayam, Kumaravalasu and Chennimalai Palayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31967215.ece
02 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farm worker found dead||A farm worker was found dead in his house in the Janata Layout of Honaga village in Belagavi district on Wednesday. The police said that the worker, a father of five girls, was upset that his wife could not bear him a male child. Ramu Appayya Kamble (36) had thrown out his wife after beating her up for giving birth to only girls. He had become alcoholic and had stopped going to work. He used to pick up fights with villagers over trivial matters, an investigating officer said. His wife has registered a complaint with the Kakati Police Station. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can all Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-worker-found-dead/article31967306.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teachers to be paid by the hour||After cutting salaries and letting go some of their staff, the managements of some private schools have decided that the remaining teachers on their rolls will be paid by the hour. Instead of monthly salaries, they will be paid depending on the number of online classes they conduct till schools reopen. One principal of a school in Bengaluru said that this will come into effect from July. “We have decided to pay teachers based on their salary from the previous academic year. This amount will be divided by the number of working days, and then multiplying it by the number of hours they are teaching. So by this formula, a teacher whose monthly salary is Rs. 30,000, will get Rs. 250 per hour. If they take online classes for two hours per day, they will be paid Rs. 500 per day,” the principal added. This has caused a lot of angst and distress among teachers who pointed out that a lot of preparation goes into one class. A social science teacher who had to take a 60% salary cut since May said that she was struggling to make ends meet. “And I teach in one of the most reputed schools,” she said. In April and May, school managements had cut salaries of teachers claiming there was no source of income as they could not collect fees for the 2020-2021 academic year. Now, even though several parents have paid the school fees, schools have decided to take this measure. The founder of another well-known school said the management was considering paying teachers for each class from anywhere between Rs. 250 to Rs. 500 per class. “But we will wait for the government to take a call and may start this model in a month or two if schools do not re-open,” he said. He also added that although many parents had paid fees, there were several recurring expenditures that they had to pay including rent. “We also have to upgrade our online resources for these classes. Teachers are aware of the situation and the crisis that school managements are facing,” he said. He however said that they will continue to pay ESI and PF benefits to the teachers. Officials in the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) said that according to the Karnataka Education (Second Amendment) Act, 2017, teachers employed in private schools can complain to the District Education Regulatory Authority (DERA) if they have any concerns related to payment of salaries. Based on the RTE Act, the State government had issued an order that primary school teachers should be paid a minimum of Rs. 25,800 a month, high school teachers should be paid at least Rs. 33,450 per month. V.P. Niranjan Aradhya, fellow at the Centre for Child and Law, National Law School of India University said that this measure was a gross violation of the legislation. “This will also have an adverse impact on the quality of education imparted to the students. The quality of education is directly linked not just to qualifications of teachers but also the working conditions of the teachers,” he said. Online tutorials Many teachers that The Hindu spoke to said that they had signed up to teach personalised online tutorials at the behest of parents. Many parents are opting for such tutorials as they feel that the classes conducted by schools are not enough. Many teachers have also taken up small side businesses to make ends meet. “As the salaries of teachers are low when compared to other professions, they do not have savings. So many of my colleagues have started catering services, while some of them have started small online businesses such as selling masks,” said a teacher, who is a single parent of two children.  We have decided to pay teachers based on their salary from the previous academic year. This amount will be divided by the number of working days, and then multiplying it by the number of hours they are teaching Principal of a school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-to-be-paid-by-the-hour/article31967107.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft EIA 2020 could hurt Western Ghats: Experts||Opposition is building up against the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Environmentalists and scientists in Karnataka say it could spell disaster for the ecologically fragile Western Ghats, which is already witnessing degradation. On Tuesday, the Delhi High Court extended till August 11 the time granted to the public for sharing their opinion on the draft notification. However, activists and environmentalists are demanding the scrapping of the draft EIA 2020 altogether if it is not strengthened.  The United Conservation Movement (UCM) from Karnataka has started an online petition urging citizens to demand a stronger EIA. “The draftEIA 2020 encourages further pollution, with diluted regulations over industrial and development practices. In this age of high pollution levels in our cities, we need to demand to strengthen the EIA 2006 instead of allowing more than 30 conditions thatwill dilute the notification for over 25 toxic industries,” the organisation said. Speaking specifically about what this would mean for the Western Ghats, the UCM said that proposed projects in five districts — Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, and Shivamogga — could mean the massacre of 21 lakh trees and their ecosystems. “Kodagu will be ripped apart with seven highway-widening and two railway line projects, apart from real estate development. Lakhs of trees that will be felled for these projects will mean the ecology that sustains river Cauvery, coffee and pepper production in the region will be lost forever,” the UCM said, adding that the district has also seen unprecedented landslips and floods in the past two years. The NH-4A widening work from Belagavi to Panjim, Goa, also cost over a lakh trees in the Western Ghats. “By allowing road widening of less than 100 km in length and up to 70 m in width, we are triggering landslips in these fragile ghats and hill districts,” the UCM said. ‘No lessons learnt’ T.V. Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, who is also part of the government-appointed committee to study landslips, said no lessons seem to have been learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic and the dangers of zoonotic diseases. “We are heading towards a catastrophe by diluting the EIA. The entire Western Ghats constitutes only 5% of India’s geographical area. Of that, only 2% is deemed ecologically sensitive. One virus has closed down the entire world; now they should learn from it. If you further hamper the ecosystem, we will see more health hazards,” he said, adding that Karnataka’s changes to the Land Reforms Act too is in the same direction. Native vegetation is important for water security. But empowering projects with post approval and diluting public hearing is going to have a negative impact, he said. “Linear projects are coming up in Kodagu and many parts of the Western Ghats, which are ecologically fragile regions. We are already seeing frequent landslips, changes in climate and rainfall pattern — higher quantity of water in shorter time and simultaneous flood and drought in Kodagu,” he said. Student petition Recently, more than 60 student unions and 400 individual students, led by 20-year old environmentalist Anjali Dalmia, too pledged their support to the “#WithdrawEIA2020 campaign”. They have collectively been reaching out to the Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change as well as the Prime Minister.  The entire Western Ghats constitutes only 5% of India’s geographical area. Of that, only 2% is deemed ecologically sensitive. One virus has closed down the entire world... If you further hamper the ecosystem, we will see more health hazards T.V. Ramachandra, of Centre for Ecological Sciences, IISc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-eia-2020-could-hurt-western-ghats-experts/article31967119.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Passenger trains from Baiyappanahalli by October’||If all goes as scheduled, the South Western Railways (SWR) is hoping to start passenger and express train services from the new coaching terminal at Baiyappanahalli by October, if not earlier. Once the terminal is fully functional, it will help decongest KSR Bengaluru City and Yeshwantpur terminals as more trains to Mumbai and Chennai regions can be started or terminated at Baiyappanahalli. However, it will be dependent on when the Railway Board gives the nod. The existing Baiyappanahalli yard has 18 lines, which were made fully operational on Tuesday. Once other works are completed, the terminal can serve passenger trains. The new station will have eight passenger lines with seven platforms, six stabling lines and three pit lines. “We commissioned track, signalling and other systems at the terminal on Wednesday. Other works will be completed by October. Due to lockdown, only a few train services are operational now,” said Ashok Kumar Verma, Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru. SWR is spending Rs. 240 crore on the project. “We have been using KSR Bengaluru and Yeshwantpur railway stations to the maximum capacity. We managed to introduce new train services and increase frequency in the last three years. The full-fledged commissioning of Baiyappanahalli terminal will help us introduce more train services to different points,” Mr. Verma added. Prior to lockdown, on an average 120 trains were operated from KSR Bengaluru and 80 trains from Yeshwantpur. Missed deadlines After missing many deadlines, in February, the SWR had set May 2020 as the deadline to commission passenger trains from Baiyappanahalli. It had also planned to start services with 32 pairs of trains. Officials missed the deadline due to the lockdown. Work has been affected by a labour crunch. According to Mr. Verma, prior to the lockdown, 800 workers were at the site, but the number has since reduced to 200-odd. Civil and construction work has resumed with precautions such as social distancing.  We have been using KSR Bengaluru and Yeshwantpur railway stations to the maximum capacity Ashok Kumar Verma, Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passenger-trains-from-baiyappanahalli-by-october/article31967105.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,272 new cases, seven more deaths||Even as the State ramped up its testing to 16,670 - the highest on a single day - as many as 1,272 new cases (also the highest on a single day) and seven deaths have been reported on Wednesday. With this the total number of cases has touched 16,514 and the death toll has risen to 253 apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 292 patients are being monitored in the ICU. While Bengaluru Urban and Bidar have reported two deaths each, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi and Hassan have reported one each. 735 in Bengaluru As many as 735 of Wednesday’s cases are from Bengaluru alone. What is worrisome is the fact that the contact or the source patient of all the 735 cases in Bengaluru is under tracing. With this, the city has now recorded a total of 4,649 cases. While the State has been testing an average of 14,000 samples every day, the number crossed 16,500 and touched 16,670 on Wednesday. Previously, 16,100 samples had been tested and 400 of the samples had tested positive then. With 145 new discharges, the total number of persons who have recovered has touched 8,053.  More cases in NIMHANS Meanwhile, five more staffers from NIMHANS tested positive since Tuesday. NIMHANS Resident Medical Officer Shashidhara said a resident doctor, two staff nurses, a data entry operator and a housekeeping staff tested positive. With this, a total of 15 staffers are positive at NIMHANS now. “On Wednesday casualty and emergency services have been temporarily shifted to the adjacent block. As one of the infected persons is from the Clinical Pathology Lab, investigations have been outsourced without taxing the patients. Patient services have not been hampered,” he said.  Guidelines on food Following the advice from experts, the State Health Department has issued a circular directing COVID-19 hospitals to provide dietary food to patients. A detailed menu with timings for breakfast, mid-morning snacks, lunch, evening snacks and dinner apart from a post-dinner beverage has been issued. The same menu should be followed for patients, doctors and other hospital staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-1272-new-cases-seven-more-deaths/article31967113.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lawyer writes to Home Minister after police register FIR against her||A Bengaluru-based lawyer, who alleged on social media that she was abused and spat on by the wife of an IPS officer during a row, has written to the Home Minister and senior police officers, including the police commissioner, after the officer’s wife filed a complaint against her. The Commercial Street police have registered an FIR against the lawyer under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The two ladies stay in an apartment complex on Infantry Road In a social media post, the lawyer, Vandana Venkatesh, alleged that Honey Hilori, wife of IPS officer Ajay Hilori, got the police to intimidate her when she confronted the latter about the noise her child was making on Monday. The officer’s family has been in quarantine after Mr. Hilori tested positive for COVID-19. “Ms. Hilori took offence and in the evening around seven to eight police officials, some not in uniform, visited my home, yelled at me citing child abuse and recorded me without my consent. When I confronted Ms. Hilori about this, she spat on my face and verbally abused me,” Ms. Venkatesh alleged. She told The Hindu that she got to know about the complaint against her on Tuesday evening when she went to the Commercial Street Police Station to lodge a complaint against Ms. Hilori. “A lady police personnel started recording me when I went to file the complaint, and the police were hostile. At first they denied seven to eight people coming to my house,” Ms. Venkatesh alleged. “Spitting on my face and then sending seven to eight police personnel to intimidate me is blatant abuse of power,” she told The Hindu . In her email to senior officials, she requested the authorities concerned to consider it as a complaint. “It is not possible to file the above complaint to the officers who are openly hostile considering these officers were the ones who had come to our house. Now due to an FIR with false claims (which also states that I had previously visited their house to shout at the children – which is false as CCTV footage will confirm)….I am constrained to write an email complaint which we request you to consider as an FIR,” she stated.  ...around seven to eight police officials, some not in uniform, visited my home, yelled at me citing child abuse and recorded me without my consent Vandana Venkatesh, lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lawyer-writes-to-home-minister-after-police-register-fir-against-her/article31967099.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inconsistencies in data collation pulling down recovery rate: BBMP||While Bengaluru’s COVID-19 management is still better than other metros in terms of number of cases and death rate, the recovery rate is low. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) attributes this to inconsistencies in data collation. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that the civic body was not getting data on the recovered and discharged cases from the hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in the city. ‘Not receiving data on recoveries, discharges’ “We are not getting data on discharges even from the government hospitals, except from Victoria Hospital. Many patients may have recovered and would have been discharged. But this is not reflected in our data; and many are still being reflected as active cases. This is one of the reasons for the low recovery rate,” he said. Stating that the BBMP had now put in place a protocol to be followed, he said the recovery rate in Bengaluru also depended on the number of cases being reported. Spike in cases “The number of COVID-19 positive cases has seen a spike over the past week. This also accounts for the lower recovery rate,” he explained. Mr. Anil Kumar said that as on July 1, the recovery rate was around 15%. According to the BBMP war room report on June 30, of the total 4,555 reported COVID-19 cases, 3,917 were active. On June 29, of the total 4,059 cases, 3,545 were active cases. According to the July 1 war room report, the total number of positive cases stood at 5,290, with 735 reported cases in 24 hours. The total number of active cases is 4,652. The war room report (June 30) has put the mortality rate at 2.09%. Three 14-day cycles Reiterating that the number of cases may continue to be high over the next 15 days, he said that experts had warned of a spike in three cycles of 14 days each. “Citizens have to be vigilant and ensure that they maintain social distance, practice good hygiene,” he stressed. According to data provided by the BBMP on Wednesday, the civic body had collected Rs. 4.25 lakh in fines in as many as 2,125 cases for not maintaining social distance and not wearing masks. A total of Rs. 3.73 lakh was collected as fine from 1,866 persons for not wearing masks, and Rs. 51,803 in 259 cases was collected for not maintaining social distance.  Many patients may have recovered and would have been discharged. But this is not reflected in our data; and many are still being reflected as active cases. This is one of the reasons for the low recovery rate. B.H. Anil Kumar Commissioner, BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inconsistencies-in-data-collation-pulling-down-recovery-rate-bbmp/article31967108.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plaint against banners||The BJP Yuva Morcha has filed a complaint with the BBMP on banners put up by Congress workers in the Central Business District ahead of D.K. Shivakumar taking over as KPCC president. The Yuva Morcha members submitted memorandum to Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. Abhilash Reddy M., district president of BJP Yuva Morcha, Bengaluru Central, said the BBMP council had banned putting up advertisement hoardings or publicity material. Mr. Anil Kumar said officials had been directed to remove the flex banners that had been put up without permission from the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plaint-against-banners/article31967124.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA starts helpline for appointments||In view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has started helpline numbers to get members of the public to call before going to the office. According to a release, people can call 080-23368435/23369036 or mail bda.appointment123@gmail.com. After informing officials prior to their visit, the officers concerned will be briefed and the public will be informed over phone, the release said, adding that this is a temporary measure. Registrations will be done as usual, but with prior appointment, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-starts-helpline-for-appointments/article31967101.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||32 class 10 students with COVID-19 will have to write supplementary exam||As many as 32 students have not been able to sit for the class 10 SSLC examination after contracting COVID-19. Before the exam began on June 25, 13 students had tested positive. Another 19 tested positive after the exam started. The Department of Public Instruction is yet to provide a break-up of how many of these students wrote at least one paper before testing positive. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, at a press conference on Wednesday, said that 31 exam centres have been changed across the State as they were originally located in containment zones. Nearly 98% of the 7.84 lakh students who registered for the social science paper reported at their exam centres on Wednesday. As many as 3,363 students from containment zones and 613 students who had symptoms such as fever, cough and cold sat in separate rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-class-10-students-with-covid-19-will-have-to-write-supplementary-exam/article31967122.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State govt. on third gender plea||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition complaining that no provision has been made for the appointment of transgender persons in a notification issued on filling 2,672 posts of special reserve police constables. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order on the petition filed by Sangama, a society working for the welfare of the transgender community, and Nisha Gulur. Despite a 2014 judgment of the apex court, which declared that transgender persons would have to be treated as part of a “third gender” for safeguarding their rights under the Constitution and the laws made by Parliament and the State legislature, the petitioners pointed out that the notification calls for filling up the vacancies with “men” and “women”, without any provision for transgenders. The petitioners also stated that the apex court, in the case of National Legal Services Authority vs. Union of India, had directed the Centre and the States to take steps to treat the transgender community as a socially and educationally backward class and to extend reservation for admissions to educational institutions and for public appointments. They sought directions to the State government to include transgender as one of the genders and to provide specific reservation for members of the community in the 2,672 posts, which include 2,420 posts of special reserve police constablesand 252 bandsmen. While adjourning the hearing, the Bench asked the government to explain why the law laid down by the apex court was not being implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-state-govt-on-third-gender-plea/article31967120.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KAT technical members wait for salary dues||For varying periods since November 2019, technical members in the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal, a quasi-judicial body, have not received their salaries despite many communications with the Finance Department. The appointment of six new technical members to the tribunal, which hears matters pertaining to the Revenue, Commercial Tax, and Cooperation departments, has led to the shortfall of Rs. 1.14 crore in the annual budgetary allocation for the tribunal. This resulted in the tribunal registrar writing to multiple agencies, including the Finance Department, seeking additional funds in April. So far, no funds have been released. “Since the registrar’s letter to the Finance Department, nothing much has happened except that communication has been moving back and forth with several queries raised,” a member told The Hindu on the condition of anonymity. The member said that while the Finance Department wants to treat the salary between January and March as arrears and release the salaries for April and May, the members are not sure when the arrears will come. “There is no finality. Some of us have reached out to our friends and colleagues for loans for sustenance.” It was on April 17, 2020 that the tribunal registrar wrote to the Finance Department about the shortfall and the need for an urgent additional allocation of Rs. 1.14 crore. This was in addition to the allocation of Rs. 7.96 crore made in the Budget. “Six new members have been transferred and they have reported to work. Their salaries have not been paid since the allocation for 2020-21 is inadequate. Hence, release Rs. 1.14 crore as additional allocation or make a re-allocation urgently,” the letter stated. The letter was also sent to the Revenue Department. Two members, who have since retired, have also not been paid their salaries. Principal Secretary of Finance I.S.N. Prasad was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kat-technical-members-wait-for-salary-dues/article31967121.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Candlelight digital protest over online classes||Over 500 parents came together on Wednesday to participate in a digital candlelight protest against the decisions taken by the government of Karnataka on online classes. They logged on to an online platform for the virtual ‘march’. While some lit candles and stood in front of the screen, others placed diyas in front of the screen. Many parents changed their profile pictures to a candle. In a statement, they stated their opposition to the government’s decision to put a time limit on online classes and argued that the duration prescribed was inadequate. ‘Won’t send to school’ In a statement, they said, “Parents, who are protesting, believe that it is an attempt by the government to try to restart schools at the earliest. As COVID-19 numbers continue to rise, several parents won’t be comfortable sending children to school even if the government reopens them. So, children need an alternative option to learn. In the current unprecedented circumstances, the best option is live online classes. After all, the children of Karnataka also have a #righttolearn.” They urged the government to explore all available technologies, including television and radio. “This is not a one-size-fits-all solution, and multiple approaches have to be explored and encouraged by the government to ensure that the constitutionally guaranteed right to education is not denied for children in Karnataka,” read the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/candlelight-digital-protest-over-online-classes/article31967104.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||507 contract doctors resign||Contract doctors working in PHCs run by the Health Department submitted resignations to their jurisdictional District Health Officers and Deputy Commissioners on Wednesday. Demanding regularisation of services, the doctors had been assured by Health Minister B. Sriramulu that their demand would be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting. The doctors had given the government time till June 30. The 507 doctors will boycott work after July 8. “No one from the government has contacted yet,” said Nithin Kumar, a doctor working in a PHC in Hassan, on behalf of the 507 doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/507-contract-doctors-resign/article31967125.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two acres outside Bengaluru to be used for burial||Following complaints that the burial of COVID-19 patients was being carried out without following protocol even on burial grounds located closer to residential areas, Health Minister B. Sriramulu on Wednesday said that two acres of land on the city’s outskirts would be earmarked for the burial of COVID-19 patients. Stating that it had come to his notice that protocols were not being followed while disposing off the bodies of positive patients, the Minister said action would be initiated against those who violated the rules. A video showing healthcare workers throwing their body covers (PPEs) near the road after disposing a COVID-19 patient in a burial ground in J.C. Nagar in the city and later sipping tea emerged on Wednesday. “It is dangerous if the used PPE kits are being disposed indiscriminately like this. As our houses are located nearby, we are at risk,” said a resident of the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-acres-outside-bengaluru-to-be-used-for-burial/article31967111.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR for ignoring home quarantine norms||Begur police have filed FIRs against three individuals for not adhering to home quarantine norms. “The FIRs have been registered based on complaints by Bruhant Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials,” sources said. They have been booked under Sections 269 and 271 of the IPC. Police test positive Meanwhile, a police personnel of Kamakshipalya Police Station tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. According to sources, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) from the West Division also tested positive and the office of the ACP has been sanitised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-for-ignoring-home-quarantine-norms/article31967100.ece
02 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||NGOs, Home Guards to monitor home quarantine patients||The police will not only work in association with the BBMP in Bengaluru to handle the COVID-19 situation, but will also rope in Home Guards and NGOs to monitor home quarantine patients, according to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Minister, who held a meeting with Bengaluru City Police Commissioner and BBMP Commissioner along with other bureaucrats to discuss non-medical measures to be initiated in Bengaluru on Wednesday, told mediapersons that the process of roping in interested NGOs had begun. “We have decided to strictly enforce sealing as well as home quarantine norms this time. The police, BBMP officials, Home Guards and NGOs will not only monitor the situation with respect to home quarantine, but will also provide them with necessary help with respect to counselling,” he said. “At every ward-level, there will be a co-ordinated activity among these authorities and the responsibility of monitoring movements of different patients would be given to specific officials to bring in accountability and effectiveness,” he said. DCPs will be responsible for effective execution of sealing norms in Bengaluru, he added. The police had also been told to organise a campaign using about 600 autorickshaws to create public awareness about the night curfew, compulsory wearing of masks and other precautions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngos-home-guards-to-monitor-home-quarantine-patients/article31967110.ece
02 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Be prepared to serve public’||Senior officers of the Revenue Department have been told to be mentally prepared to serve the public without a break for the next six months in the wake of COVID-19 scare, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said here on Wednesday. Later, he inspected the Deputy Commissioner’s office complex coming up on the outskirts of the city. The State government has provided Rs. 25 crore for the construction work and Rs. 5 crore has been spent already. Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/be-prepared-to-serve-public/article31967307.ece
02 July 2020||Dharwad,KARNATAKA||Move to sell govt. holding in LIC opposed||All India Insurance Employees Association (AIIEA) has expressed opposition to the Union government’s decision to sell a part of its holding in LIC. The government announced in the Union Budget for 2020-21 its plans to sell a part of its holding in LIC through an Initial Public Offer (IPO). Now, the government is going ahead with its decision to privatise LIC by inviting bids to appoint a Pre-Transaction Advisor. This company will assist the government in the process related to the IPO. This is condemnable, association members said at an event in Dharwad on Wednesday. At the programme organised to mark the 70th Foundation Day of AIIEA, association leaders said that this was being done despite opposition from the entire workforce of LIC, the trade union movements and right thinking people of this country. It is unfortunate, they said. Leaders said that the workforce of LIC which has made enormous contribution to create the finest financial institution are disappointed and disturbed by this government move. LIC was started with a meagre capital base of Rs. 5 crore in 1956. It has been managing assets in excess of Rs. 32 lakh crore today. The demand of the AIIEA, which was formed on July 1, 1951, has been nationalisation of insurance business in the country. The objectives of nationalisation of life insurance business by taking over 245 private insurers were to mobilise small savings and convert them into capital for long-term investment in infrastructure, while, at the same time, giving total security to policyholders and ensuring decent returns, they said. The equity sale by the government which may ultimately lead to privatisation kills these very objectives. The concept of “people’s money for people’s welfare” will give way to maximisation of profits for shareholders. This is not in the interests of LIC’s 40 crore policyholders or the national economy, they said. It is widely acknowledged that domestic savings play a very important role in the national economy and many economists world-wide hold the view that foreign capital is a poor substitute for domestic savings. In a situation where the country needs huge resources for development, it is necessary that the government exercised control over domestic and, more importantly, household savings, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for an Atmanirbhar Bharat and this vision can be successful only when an institution which every year generates enormous surplus that can be invested remained totally under government control, they said. “We would like to stress again that the move to sell equity of LIC will severely impact the economy and vulnerable sections of people. The social objective of providing insurance cover to the weaker sections of society will suffer a set-back. The aim to expand insurance in unprofitable rural areas too will suffer. Therefore, disturbing the character of LIC will harm the interests of the national economy and the poorer sections of the population,” they added. Under the circumstances, “we urge the government to withdraw the invitation of bids for appointing Pre-Transaction Advisor for LIC’s IPO and reconsider the decision on disinvestment in LIC,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/move-to-sell-govt-holding-in-lic-opposed/article31967312.ece
02 July 2020||Dharwad,KARNATAKA||‘Shift asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patients to care centres’||Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has asked health officials and COVID-19 task force to shift all asymptomatic COVID-19 positive persons to COVID-19 Care Centres set up in the district, from the district designated hospital. A 500-bed facility has been set up in the district for COVID-19 Care. At a meeting with officials in Dharwad on Wednesday, Mr. Patil asked officials to conduct COVID-19 tests for influenza like illness (ILI) patients. “As per the new rules, asymptomatic positive persons should be shifted to COVID-19 Care Centres, from the hospital,’’ he said. Private hospitals and clinics registered under KPME Act have been directed to send details of all ILI patients to the Health Department. But some clinics are not sending the list. They will face action, including cancellation of registration and legal action against doctors. He asked the officials to make a list of those who breach home quarantine rules and submit it to the Police Department for further action. Zilla Panchayat CEO B.C. Sateesh said that there are 19 PHCs in the twin cities and 32 in rural areas. At least 50 % of these PHCs should have swab samples collection points, he said. Testing facility should be created for rural people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shift-asymptomatic-covid-19-positive-patients-to-care-centres/article31967313.ece
02 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Process on to revive MPM||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that the State government has launched the process to revive Mysore Paper Mills (MPM), a public sector undertaking, in Bhadravati. During his visit to Bhadravati on Wednesday, Mr. Shettar said that the government would re-start MPM. The State Cabinet had already decided to retain forest land, meant for raising captive pulpwood, with MPM. This would be a major step towards revamping the unit. The government would make efforts to bring in private investors to re-start production, he said. Earlier, there was a proposal to withdraw forest land leased to MPM after production came to a halt. Mr. Shettar, earlier in the day, interacted with industrialists at Devatikoppa Industrial Area in Shivamogga. The State government had taken steps to help industries that had suffered during the lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also announced a package for the industrial sector. The government would provide benefits of the package to the State’s industries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/process-on-to-revive-mpm/article31967311.ece
02 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Dazzling Dharwad’ released||“Dazzling Dharwad”, a coffee table book that throws light on the history, art and culture, lifestyle, tourism in Dharwad district, was released by Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district in-charge Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Shettar said that the coffee table book would help in giving brief information on the district, particularly to those from other districts, States and from foreign countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dazzling-dharwad-released/article31967319.ece
02 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Milkman murdered||A 35-year-old milkman, who left home to collect milk from a dairy, was killed by a group of persons at Deval Ganagapur village in Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. The victim, Dattu Kelkar, was attacked with lethal weapons when he was on his way to Sangam for collecting milk. The police suspected that a property dispute could be the motive for the murder. A case has been registered at Deval Ganagapur Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/milkman-murdered/article31967308.ece
02 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water tanks inaugurated||Moodbidri MLA K. Umanath Kotian on Tuesday inaugurated three overhead water tanks and an anganwadi building in his constituency, all sponsored by Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. Two water tanks each with 50,000 litre capacity built at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh each were inaugurated at Swamilapadavu-Bajpe and HPCL Colony-62 Thokur village. Another one lakh litre capacity overhead water tank built at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh at Padupanambur too was inaugurated. The anganwadi building at Padupanambur was built at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh with MRPL sponsoring Rs. 5 lakh and the balance coming from MGNREGA funds. MRPL’s Chief General Manager B.H.V. Prasad and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-tanks-inaugurated/article31967315.ece
02 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three more deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Three more COVID-19 patients died in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday taking the toll to 15. Earlier, two non-COVID-19 deaths were reported in the district. Some doctors treating COVID-19 patients, some staff in the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at the Government Wenlock Hospital and some policemen, including an Assistant Commissioner of Police, from Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada were among the 84 persons who tested positive on Wednesday, sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said. With this, the total number of active cases has gone up to 372. On some VRDL staff testing positive, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh told The Hindu : “Alternative arrangements are being made for testing swab samples.” According to a release, 28 persons with influenza like illness, six who returned from Sharjah and one who returned from another State have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada/article31967317.ece
02 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Smaller towns resort to ‘local’ lockdown to fight COVID-19 pandemic||Even as the State government was awaiting the closure of the crucial SSLC examination to decide on the next level of measures to combat COVID-19, smaller towns are now resorting to ‘local lockdowns’, with the trading community compressing business hours instead of keeping shops open all day through to fight the contagion. The lockdown, however, excludes essential services and supplies. With speculations rife over another lockdown, voluntary closure of businesses has been reported from small towns of Mysuru, Chamarajnagar and Kodagu districts after a spike in cases. The big jump in cases in the three districts since last week has kept the authorities on their toes and are mulling over various measures for keeping the spread under check. Shopkeepers in T. Narsipur town in Mysuru; Gonikoppal in Kodagu and Gundlupet in Chamarajnagar have come up with the idea of local lockdowns to do their bit to fight the virus. “People stay indoors if shops are closed earlier than scheduled. This eventually stops the spread,” is what the traders argue. Gundlupet had reported many cases and therefore traders decided to close shops by 4 p.m. A day later, the district administration issued an order asking for closing shops across Chamarajnagar by 4 p.m. Traders in Gonikoppal in Mysuru are said to be planning to observe a bandh on July 2 and 3 to combat the pandemic.  People stay indoors if shops are closed earlier than scheduled. This eventually stops the spread Traders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smaller-towns-resort-to-local-lockdown-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic/article31967115.ece
02 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Projects to irrigate dry land in three districts to be ready in three years||Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi has promised that all irrigation projects that had been planned for implementation in Raichur, Ballari and Yadgir districts will be completed in the next three years ensuring irrigation facility for dry land in the region. He was addressing a gathering after participating in a ground breaking ceremony for drip irrigation works under the Nandawadagi Lift Irrigation Project at Buddime village in Maski taluk of Raichur district on Wednesday. Mr. Jarkiholi said that the State government is making efforts to implement irrigation projects in Raichur, Koppal, Ballari and Yadgir districts expeditiously. “The Nandawadagi Lift Irrigation Project, which will come up at a cost of Rs. 1,800 crore, will provide drip irrigation to 36,100 hectares of dry land. Of this, 400 hectares of land is in Hungund taluk of Bagalkot district and 35,700 hectares in Lingsugur and Maski taluks of Raichur district,” the Minister said. He said that a balancing reservoir will be constructed near Navali village in Koppal district to provide irrigation to dry land and Rs. 145 crore has been earmarked for it. He sought cooperation from the general public, social organisations and farmers stating that people’s participation by extending a helping hand to the government would make implementing irrigation projects easy. The Minister also visited a spot near Tinthini village in Yadgir district where a project to store 40 tmcft of water from the Krishna will come up. Members of Parliament Sanganna Karadi and Raja Amareshwar Naik, MLAs Shivaraj Patil and Narasimha Naik, Zilla Panchayat president Adimani Veeralakshmi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/projects-to-irrigate-dry-land-in-three-districts-to-be-ready-in-three-years/article31967310.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Cadre-based organising of Cong. is the need of the hour’||Ahead of formally taking over as the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee on Thursday (July 2), seven-time MLA and former Minister D.K. Shivakumar in an email interview to The Hindu says the Congress should be a cadre-based party to take the fight to every booth. Edited excerpts:  You are taking over at a time when mass gatherings and public interface of other forms are banned. These are important elements in party-building activity. Now, what other tools do you plan to employ to build the party and make yourself visible? We have no choice but to discover and implement alternatives. There is no alternative to the human connect in the real world but we don’t have that privilege now. I am thankful that there is at least this technology so I can keep in touch with our party workers. Also, the Chief Minister of Karnataka, through the media, permitted us to hold the charge-taking event. I must say that I have been able to do more than keeping in touch. I don’t know whether I would have been able to speak to so many DCC presidents, social media coordinators, digital youth and party workers if not for online meeting. People are getting used to it and they too are innovating. This is just the beginning and you may see more and more ways that we would put such technology to use. I am eager to travel across the State and meet the common man affected by COVID-19, which should happen when things are more conducive and safe for everyone. The Congress, unlike the BJP, is not known for its social media network. Is that a particular disadvantage? That is not true. We are as active as the BJP but there is a difference. We have a positive approach and they are negative. We believe in constructive use of social media whereas they use it for spreading fake news, trolling and disseminating negativity. The Centre had ordered an income tax inquiry against you. Do you foresee that being a constant thorn in your functioning? That is the only way they think they can rein me in. Let them do what they want to do, I will continue to do the job. As long as I am clear in my conscience and I know that I am on the right path, nothing can deter me. Karnataka Congress is seen as unit with several factions, multiple power centres and powerful leaders such as M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Siddaramaiah. There is a sense that you do not get along particularly with Mr. Siddaramaiah and his loyalists. That is the creation of some section of the media. Isn’t it good to have more powerful leaders in our party and not just me alone? There are no factions and no groups, we are just one faction and one group and that is Congress. There is democracy in our party and if that is mistaken for dissent or factionalism, I think it is very naive. You have said you will convert the party into a cadre-based organisation where workers will be given primacy. How do you see yourself doing this? Cadre-based organising of the party is the need of the hour. We have the cadre spirit already but we just need to organise on those lines. Everyone has understood its importance and we will achieve it because cadres have to propagate and fight in booths.  I am eager to travel across the State and meet the common man affected by COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cadre-based-organising-of-cong-is-the-need-of-the-hour/article31967127.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stay on handing over Yelahanka Puttenahalli lake to BBMP||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday stayed the State government’s notification of handing over Yelahanka Puttenahalli lake to the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for maintenance as the lake is part of the Puttenahalli Lake Bird Conservation Reserve. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by Yelahanka Puttenahalli Lake and Boards Conservation Trust and others. Pointing out that the lake is part of the landscape notified as a conservation reserve under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, the bench said that the State government could not have issued an executive order of handing over the lake to the BBMP for maintenance. The bench also directed the State government to properly reconstitute within three weeks the conservation reserve management committee for Puttenahalli Lake Bird Conservation Reserve as per provisions of the Wild Life (Protection) Act to advise the chief wild life warden to conserve, manage and maintain the conservation reserve. The petitioners had questioned the legality of a November 2019 notification of the State government to hand over Yelahanka Puttenahalli lake to the BBMP and the subsequent tender notification issued by the civic body. The court, during previous hearings, had restrained the BBMP from taking further step on the basis of the tender notification. The Puttenahalli Lake Bird Conservation Reserve was notified in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stay-on-handing-over-yelahanka-puttenahalli-lake-to-bbmp/article31967103.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safe entry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safe-entry/article31967117.ece
02 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Eight test positive in Alappuzha||Eight more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. Of the new cases, six came from abroad and one from Delhi. One person contracted the disease through contact. Two men hailing from Palamel and Pandanad reached the district from Kuwait on June 14 and June 15 respectively. Another patient, a man from Ramankary came from Oman on June 19. Two men hailing from Devikulangara and Punnapra had come from Saudi Arabia and the UAE respectively on June 14. The sixth patient, a man from Pathiyoor, came from Yemen on June 25. A woman hailing from Thanneermukkom reached the district from Delhi on June 11. The 45-year-old woman who contracted the disease through contact is a native of Kayamkulam. Her father, a vegetable trader, tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week while undergoing treatment for other ailments at a hospital in Kollam. Among the patients, six have been admitted to the Government MCH, Alappuzha, and two persons to Taluk Hospital, Haripad. Nine test negative Nine people undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease on Wednesday. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 175. The government has declared Ward 11 in Thekkekara grama panchayat as a containment zone. It further removed Ward 10 in Pattanakkad grama panchayat, Ward 50 in Alappuzha municipality and Ward 7 in Karthikappally grama panchayat from the list of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article31967534.ece
02 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Shock waves of lockdown rock houseboats||When the government announced a lockdown in March to stem the spread of SARS-CoV-2, Nagaraja H., a houseboat owner from Chathanad in Alappuzha, was worried but did not have the faintest idea that it would cripple the houseboat sector and change the course of his life. With the industry at a standstill since March and no signs of houseboats setting sail again anytime soon, Mr. Nagaraja has taken up the job of a grocery deliveryman to make ends meet. “Following the declaration of the lockdown, I was hoping for a return to some sort of normality soon like in the case of the Nipah outbreak and floods. After my first houseboat was gutted in a fire, I bought another one after securing a bank loan. Things were going smooth until the outbreak. But the pandemic has dealt a never-before blow to the houseboat sector that recovery is now a distant dream. I am left with no choice but to take up another job,” he says. Varghese K.T. has been operating a houseboat in the Alappuzha backwaters for the past eight years. He terms the COVID-19-induced crisis unprecedented and is forced to take up another job. They are not the only ones seeking new pastures as several other houseboat owners and employees are already turning to online fish delivery, setting up cafes, and food delivery to make a living. A longer hiatus Vinod V., president, All Kerala Houseboat Owners Association, says the industry is staring at an uncertain future. The State government’s reluctance to waive fee or extend the soon-to-be-expiring survey, registration, fitness, and other certificates of the boats has not helped the sector either. “Although other sectors are slowly reopening, we expect the houseboats to remain anchored for the rest of the year. Even if the government gives the nod, we are not expecting tourists to come soon. The government should provide some relief to the sector,” Mr. Vinod says. There are 1,500 houseboats in the State, a majority of them in Alappuzha. Thousands of people are directly attached with the sector and many thousands indirectly. A large number of them have already become jobless. The situation of shikara boat operators is not much different. T.G. Abhilash Kumar, deputy director, Tourism Department, says no decision has been taken yet on restarting the houseboat operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shock-waves-of-lockdown-rock-houseboats/article31967481.ece
02 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Murder bid: 4 arrested||A police team led by Cherthala Circle Inspector P. Sreekumar on Wednesday arrested four members of a quotation gang for a murder bid on a 48-year-old man. The arrested were identified as Ragesh, alias Kunjan, 43, of Nellayi, Thrissur, Lenish, 33, of Njarackal, Ernakulam, Joseph Libin, 25, of Njarackal, and Shyam, 34 of Vypin, Ernakulam. The police said Balakrishna Pillai, an advocate in the Supreme Court, had given a quotation to the gang to murder his relative Suresh, 48, of Areeparambu, Cherthala, following a land dispute. Suresh had sustained injuries in the attack. A search is on to nab Balakrishna Pillai, the prime accused in the case, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-bid-4-arrested/article31967535.ece
02 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Mahesan’s death: Vellappally aide questioned||The Mararikulam police on Wednesday interrogated K.L. Ashokan, an aide to Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, in connection with the death of SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K.K. Mahesan. Mahesan, a former aide to Mr. Natesan, allegedly ended his life. His was found dead hanging inside the union office at Kanichukulangara on June 24. The investigation is led by Mararikulam Circle Inspector S. Rajesh. Officials said Ashokan was questioned for over three hours. The investigation team also recorded the statements of Kanichukulangara Devaswom manager and a couple of others. Mr. Natesan would be questioned on Thursday in connection with the case. Mahesan’s kin have demanded a probe into the role of Yogam leaders and others that forced him to take the extreme step. Meanwhile, a note allegedly written by Mahesan and found pasted on the wall of the office room where he was found dead was leaked to the media. The note contains the names of Mr. Natesan and Mr. Ashokan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahesans-death-vellappally-aide-questioned/article31967456.ece
02 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Marayur jaggery on a sticky ground||The Marayur landscape, a favourite of filmmakers owing to its lush sugar cane fields, is now dotted with overgrown sugar canes and flowers. Acute shortage of skilled labour, mostly from Tamil Nadu, has hit harvesting since April and the subsequent production of the famed jaggery that flaunts the Geographical Indication (GI) tag. 600 hectares Sugar cane is cultivated in over 600 ha of land in Marayur and Kanthallur villages for producing jaggery. Since the lockdown, the labourers have stopped coming, says Selvin Mariyappan, a farmer and chief of the Marayur Hills Agriculture Development Society (MHADS), one of the three authorised agencies to market Marayur jaggery. The harvesting is usually done in rotation in the farms. This ensures that there is jaggery production throughout the year. But the crisis has hit the rotating system and farms that were to be harvested in April still remain untouched, says Mr. Mariyappan. Once overgrown, sugar cane will not yield the juice required to make the jaggery. From April, the production per week has dropped from 14 tonnes to below four tonnes. Recent rain has done further damage. Arogyasami, a farmer, says overgrown sugar canes in his field have begun flowering. The price of jaggery has also dropped and is around Rs. 65 now. “It does not fetch much profit,” he adds. Marayur Agriculture Officer Priya Peter said the issue was being taken up with authorities. At present, it was not advisable to seek labour from Tamil Nadu. She said if the production of Marayur jaggery drops, replacements arriving from Tamil Nadu could be marketed as ‘Marayur jaggery.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marayur-jaggery-on-a-sticky-ground/article31967483.ece
02 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ponnachan walks again||When a cat is so dear, it gets care and love. For Sainaba, a homemaker at Pathinaram Kandam, her favourite felis Ponnachan was injured by a dog in a fight and she did not hesitate to take it to the veterinary hospital at Murickassery. However, the story did not end there as the cat needed further treatment for a serious spinal injury. Her keenness in bringing Ponnachan repeatedly to the hospital, especially at a time when COVID-19 keeps people indoors, touched veterinarian Romeo Sunny. He found that the cat’s hind legs had been paralysed and it could only drag itself along the floor. Sainaba told the doctor that she was so fond of the cat and she wanted it to walk at least inside the kitchen. To realise her wish, Dr. Sunny thought of making a wheelchair for the cat and designed one that did not cause stress on its hind legs during his free time. He made one using locally available materials such as plastic pipes and rubber slippers. He said there were chances of a complete recovery, but it may take time. The wheelchair should not in any way cause stress on the cat’s hind legs. While the cat moved on the wheelchair, the legs should also recuperate, he said. Now, Ponnachan moves on the wheelchair in the kitchen. Dr. Sunny said the cat was so small in size and it would be heavy for it to move on a professionally made wheelchair. He hoped it would be able to move on its own legs after three months. In realising the wheelchair, the staff at the hospital also helped the doctor. Wheelchair for an injured cat may be a first instance in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ponnachan-walks-again/article31967530.ece
02 July 2020||Idukki,KERALA||One more tests positive in Idukki||One person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday, raising the number of active cases to 47, the District Medical Officer said. A 28-year-old man from Chakkupallam, near Kumily, who had returned from Dubai on June 10 was the new COVID-19 patient in the district. However, two persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-tests-positive-in-idukki/article31967531.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam market infection spreads to Thoppumpady||Thoppumpady, Division 11 of the Kochi Corporation, was declared a containment zone on Wednesday after a resident who is a trader with a godown near the Ernakulam market and three of his family members tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A total of nine cases can now be traced back to the area around the Ernakulam market. A 43-year-old resident of Pachalam is the fourth staffer of an electrical shop in the area to test positive for the virus. The 66-year-old resident of Thoppumpady has a godown located close to the electrical shop and runs another establishment on T.D. Road. Three of his family members and a 22-year-old employee of the same establishment also tested positive on Wednesday. A full lockdown will be imposed at Thoppumpady from Wednesday midnight onwards, and only essential services will be allowed within the containment zone. Swabs of 26 persons from the Ernakulam market area have been collected and sent for testing. Twelve persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. They include the three-year-old son and 38-year-old wife of a Nayarambalam native who tested positive on June 21. Further, a 56-year-old resident of Vallarpadam who returned from Kuwait, a 34-year-old native of Arakuzha who returned from Riyadh and is pregnant, a 24-year-old native of Kavalangad who returned from Delhi by flight, and a 43-year-old who arrived from Karnataka by road tested positive. At Marine Drive Wholesale traders of the Ernakulam market set up their wares in the parking area near Marine Drive for a few hours on Wednesday morning after the market was shut when the area was declared a containment zone. C.J. George, Ernakulam Market Stall Owners Association, said permission had been granted to traders by the district administration to dispose of their existing stock of perishables and supplies that arrived on Wednesday morning. But in the absence of effective monitoring, the situation went out of hand, and physical distancing norms were violated, he added. Traders are now awaiting directions on whether facilities can be arranged for them elsewhere, Mr. George said. Meanwhile, district administration sources said it was a measure that was allowed only on Wednesday, and that no other arrangements would be made for traders since that would defy the purpose of having set up a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-market-infection-spreads-to-thoppumpady/article31967428.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Poll panel on the trail of the dead||The State Election Commission (SEC) is scouting for the dead on the voter’s list for local body polls after complaints of the names of several deceased figuring on the list. Recently the SEC had removed the names of around 4 lakh people who were either dead or not residing in the wards where they lived earlier. There were also complaints that the names of a few persons who were murdered in the State capital also figured on the list. A week ago, the SEC had written to all Electoral Registration Officers (ERO) to vet the lists in their jurisdiction to weed out the dead from the list. The secretaries of the municipalities and panchayats and the additional secretaries of the Corporations function as the EROs for the polls. The EROs can verify the names with the death registers maintained in the respective local bodies. The service of ASHA workers will also be sought, said Commission chairman V. Bhaskaran. The EROs have been asked to compile a separate list of the deceased voters. The travel restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 have restricted several EROs from carrying out personal enquiries, he said. Foolproof system Mr. Bhaskaran ruled out the possibility of political parties indulging in bogus voting using the names of the deceased voters. The voting is carried out by using a photo-based voters’ list. The SEC is taking all possible efforts to draw up a perfect list, he said. The names of 2.62 crore voters were included on the electoral list that was released on June 17. The list would serve as the base electoral list for the local body polls though voters, who have attained the minimum age of voting and who were not included on the list, will get two more chances for enrolment. The list will be next updated in August and the final one during the month before the polls, SEC sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-panel-on-the-trail-of-the-dead/article31967457.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant students under Roshni shine in SSLC exam||Fiddling with her new tab, her prized gift from parents on scoring full A plus in the SSLC examination, Chitralekha N., a student of Thrikkanarvattom SN Higher Secondary School, was already nurturing dreams of becoming a doctor one day. The teenager, who is originally from Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu but has done her entire schooling in Kochi, claims that the result was least surprising as she expected it all along. “I want to do biomaths now,” said Chitralekha, who is among the two students to score full A plus under the Roshni project being run for migrant students in select government and aided schools in the district. Sivakumar of Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Irumpanam, is the other student. Of the 62 students under the project from nine schools across the district who registered for the SSLC exam, 59 became eligible for higher studies. While two failed, one could not appear for the exam as he was away at his native place. “We will continue to extend help to all the three students under the Roshni project to enable them to clear the exam under the Save a Year initiative,” said C.K. Prakash, general coordinator, Roshni. The project was run in 35 schools across the district, benefiting 1,222 students in the last academic year. It uses code-switching as the main pedagogical tool, which involves a speaker alternating between two or more languages during a single conversation. Since its launch three years ago, the project has won accolades from all corners and was even hailed as an initiative worth State-wide emulation in the Governor’s policy address earlier this year. It is being implemented jointly by the Education Department, Sarva Shiksha Abhyan, and the district administration with the help of trained volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-students-under-roshni-shine-in-sslc-exam/article31967416.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New system of sale will put an end to exploitation, say fishers||The Chellanam fishing harbour was witness to a historic change in sales this week with the catch being weighed before being sold to wholesale merchants. The price was fixed after the catch was weighed. It is a big break from the past that will help the poor fishers realise better prices and possibly escape a system that did not give them the real value for their efforts. It was a practice up till COVID-19 to sell by making an overall assessment of the catch in a fishing boat as it landed at the harbour. However, fishermen’s unions are now insisting that the landings be assessed according to their weight before a price is fixed. This will end the practice of exploiting the fishermen, said T. Peter of National Fish Workers’ Forum on Wednesday. T.V. Majeendran of Matysa Thozhilali Federation welcomed the development and said it was a great development and a break from the past. It was the end of a cycle of exploitation, he said. The sale of fish from a landing boat in Chellanam early this week was the culmination of efforts by various agencies to end the system of fixing a price for the catch without assessing the quantity. Charles George of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi said the State government had tried to end the practice of fish sales without proper assessment and to free wholesale transactions from the hands of brokers and middlemen. Mr. Majeendran said that the demand for fixing a fair price for the catch had been raised decades ago. However, the call had found resonance now with the traditional fishers now. Mr. Peter said that the example in Chellanam should be replicated in all the fishing harbours across Kerala so that the traditional fishers would escape the cycle of exploitation. He said that the federation supported the new system of sales with the weight of fish being the prime consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-system-of-sale-will-put-an-end-to-exploitation-say-fishers/article31967419.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Conductor tests positive, contact tracing on||The KSRTC bus depot at Angamaly has been shut after a bus conductor who had been on duty on routes passing through Angamaly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at his home town in Malappuram district on Tuesday. The conductor, a native of Perinthalmanna, developed symptoms on June 28, and his test results returned positive late on June 30. He was on duty on the Aluva-Angamaly-Chalakudy route on June 23, 24, and 25 and had shown no symptoms then. Since 11 trips are made daily on the route, he had worked on at least 33 trips in three days, said K.M. Jaleel, District Transport Officer, Angamaly. He took the Angamaly-Thrissur superfast on June 26 at 11 a.m. and then made the onward journey from Thrissur to Pattambi by a KSRTC bus and then to Perinthalmanna by a private bus. As many as 15 persons, mostly KSRTC staffers at Angamaly, have been advised to go into quarantine so far. The conductor is receiving treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. Health officials said that the conductor might have been in contact with another KSRTC bus conductor on the Guruvayur-Angamaly bus route who had tested positive on June 28. The contact list is prepared considering those who might have come into contact with the patient two days before he developed symptoms, said an official. Quarantine The contact tracing process is under way, and those who might have come into contact with him from June 25 onwards will be advised to go into quarantine, the official added. They will include passengers, the driver and conductor on the Angamaly-Thrissur superfast on June 26, and those on the Aluva-Chalakudy route on June 25. So far, the conductor has informed officials that he had been in close contact with four persons, including three conductors. Premises disinfected Meanwhile, Fire and Rescue Services personnel disinfected the bus depot premises on Wednesday, temporarily suspending services from the depot and all halts at the bus station. Services from Angamaly are likely to resume on Thursday, Mr. Jaleel said. A nearby canteen run by a Kudumbashree group and frequented by the KSRTC staff was also shut and disinfected.  The conductor was on duty on the Aluva-Angamaly-Chalakudy route on June 23, 24, and 25 K.M. Jaleel District Transport Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conductor-tests-positive-contact-tracing-on/article31967424.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A triumph of public education as well||When Nasha Nadeera, a student of Government High School, Elamakkara, cleared the SSLC examination with full A plus, it was as much her father’s victory as it was hers. For, Najid Pasha, CEO of a Kalamassery-based software company, had preferred government school to private institution for his daughter, fighting extreme peer pressure. That his wife Liza Ariesalina, a native of Indonesia, had no inkling about the predilection towards private schools in this part of the world helped as well. It was not easy for Nasha either. Having spent a few crucial formative years in Indonesia, Nasha can hardly speak Malayalam. Even back at home, her communication with mother continues to be in Indonesian, while otherwise it is mostly in English. Despite that, she had Malayalam as her second language till Standard 9 before she switched to special English at her teachers’ instance last year. “Initially, it was tough as my friends felt that my English was too fast for them to grasp, and I had difficulty following them. But gradually, all of us got used to each other as I was able to understand Malayalam, and they could get my English,” said Nasha who has only sweet memories of her life in school where she studied from Standard 5. Mr. Pasha is also happy having proved that his choice of a government school over private school was indeed right. “It is for us to promote government schools offering such good facilities and qualified teachers. Studying in a government school gave my daughter many opportunities, which she would not have got had she gone to a private school,” he said. Mr. Pasha remains insistent about insulating his two daughters from all kinds of academic and career pressures while letting them choose their own paths. So, he had even hatched a ‘plot’ with Nasha whereby both publicly insist on a career in architecture to keep at bay familial and peer pressures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-triumph-of-public-education-as-well/article31967415.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Forest officials rescue elephant from well||A sub-adult elephant, which fell into a domestic well near Pooyamkutty, in the early hours of Wednesday was rescued by Forest officials. They dug a wide channel to the well using an excavator to enable the animal to walk out to freedom. The tusker might have come in search of jackfruit and accidentally fallen into the well, which was on a holding of a forest watcher, said Ravikumar Meena, Additional Deputy Conservator of Forests. The well, around 15-feet deep, is located close to the road, which made the rescue operation using an excavator easy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-officials-rescue-elephant-from-well/article31967421.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Abhimanyu case: SIT confident of desired result||With the second death anniversary of slain Students Federation of India (SFI) activist Abhimanyu on Thursday, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the murder case is confident of taking it to its logical conclusion. Abhimanyu, a second year degree student of Maharaja’s College here, was allegedly stabbed to death by activists of the Campus Front of India and the Social Democratic Party of India near the college on July 2, 2018. The trial in the case is set to begin in September. “We are fully confident of our investigation and have trust in the prosecution. We have got hold of both direct and circumstantial evidence, which will be produced before the court in a systematic and scientific manner,” said Assistant Commissioner S.T. Suresh Kumar, who heads the SIT. He added that despite being abetted by well-organised communal outfits in and outside the State, the conspirators and executioners could not eliminate evidence despite their best of efforts. “In keeping with the adage that every crime leaves behind traces of its execution, we could garner all evidence,” Mr. Kumar said. With the recent surrender of Sahal Hamsa, the 10th accused who allegedly stabbed Abhimanyu fatally, all the 16 accused have now been arrested after a protracted manhunt. A team has been sent for evidence collection to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka where Sahal had lived in hiding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abhimanyu-case-sit-confident-of-desired-result/article31967417.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held on charge of data theft from firm||The Infopark police arrested three persons on the charge of data theft that allegedly cost an Infopark-based consultancy company crores of rupees and contracts with its U.K.-based clients. The arrested are Cyril Roy, 30; Libin Thengathara Kuryan, 34, both of Kottayam; and Jayasankar M.G., 28, of North Paravur. While Cyril resigned from the company and floated a similar consultancy firm, the other two stayed put and allegedly abetted the former in data theft. The police registered a case on a petition filed by the company that was contracted by a U.K.-based human resource consultancy for outsourcing work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-on-charge-of-data-theft-from-firm/article31967418.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bid to blackmail actor: two more arrested||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case pertaining to the alleged plan to kidnap and blackmail actor Shamna Kasim arrested two more persons on Wednesday, taking the number of arrested to 10. The arrested were identified as Raheem, 35, and Shemil, 27, both residents of Kaippamangalam in Thrissur. “Both were members of a racket and part of executing cons. They were arrested in connection with other cases registered against the gang,” said Vijay Sakhare, District Police Chief (Kochi City). The SIT had registered First Information Reports ever since the gang was exposed after Ms. Kasim’s mother petitioned the police about an attempt to cheat the family in the guise of a marriage proposal for their daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-blackmail-actor-two-more-arrested/article31967446.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea against Kunju: HC awaits govt. response||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the government to take a call in two months on a petition seeking sanction to prosecute former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju and others in a case relating to alleged corruption in the construction of a foot overbridge linking Aluva Manappuram with Kottarakadavu over the Periyar. The petition was filed by Khalid Mundapally, a social activist. According to him, he had submitted a petition before the State government seeking government sanction to prosecute the former Minister and others. The Vigilance case was that the PWD had spent double the estimated cost to construct the bridge during Mr. Kunju’s tenure as Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-against-kunju-hc-awaits-govt-response/article31967447.ece
02 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||selection of members to Child Rights Commisssion;||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the State government to respond to a petition seeking to prepare a shortlist for the appointment of members to the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The petition was filed by Prasanth Rajan, an applicant for the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selection-of-members-to-child-rights-commisssion/article31967430.ece
02 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Three cases in Kollam||The district reported three COVID-19 cases and 21 recoveries on Wednesday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include a 65-year-old Veliyam resident, a 58-year-old Ummannur resident, and a 24-year-old Kundara resident. The Veliyam resident had arrived in Kozhikode from Saudi Arabia on June 29 and is undergoing treatment there. The Ummannur resident had travelled from Delhi with his wife and pregnant daughter-in-law on June 14. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, after he tested positive. The Kundara resident had arrived in Thiruvananthapuram from Kazakhstan on June 29. His sample was collected at the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, before placing him under surveillance at Neyyattinkara. He is undergoing treatment at Homeo Medical College, Iranimuttam, at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-cases-in-kollam/article31967536.ece
02 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Jose K. Mani sticks to his stance||Notwithstanding a clarification by the UDF leadership that the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani faction had not been expelled from the coalition for the time being, a settlement on the issue is likely to be delayed further with the faction sticking to its stance.  No agreements In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Mani reiterated that his faction had never entered into any power-sharing agreements as claimed by the coalition. “The UDF has not made any amends to their earlier announcement, but only reiterated their stance by making a technical clarification regarding the exclusion. We have not committed any mistake and hence there is no room for any correction on our part,” Mr. Mani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jose-k-mani-sticks-to-his-stance/article31967448.ece
02 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nellikode Industrial Estate to get a new lease of life||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is planning to expedite steps that would facilitate a smooth take off for industries at its Nellikode Industrial Estate near Chevayur. A meeting of the corporation council recently approved the Finance Standing Committee’s suggestions to solve problems in project conception and execution at the estate, which are cited as the major hurdles before most of the licensees at the estate. The Nellikode Industrial Estate, divided into 29 plots, had been allotted to various industries based on legal tenders. However, only three of them have started operations there while the rest of the plots are in a poor condition. It was recently found in a revenue inspection that there were several infrastructural problems in the estate such as a wrongly placed transformer that is blocking the way at the main entrance to the estate, lack of way to plot number 29 and a blocked path to three other plots. The estate being on a slanted land, water pumped from the tank at the bottom does not reach the plots at the higher areas. Besides, drainage works on both sides of the road in the estate have not been completed. There have also been complaints that the plots were too small for any industry to function freely. An association of the licensees at the estate had approached the corporation demanding waiver of licence fee arrears as they had huge loans to pay back, and also since they could not start their industries due to infrastructural problems. The Kozhikode Corporation council decided to resolve the infrastructural problems by including them in the Plan fund allocation for the 2020-21 financial year and extending the licence period to ten years without any hike in the licence fee. It was decided that the plots that were given back to the corporation would be reallotted ensuring more space for industries and to allot vacant plots adjacent to the existing industries. However, the licensees have been asked to remit their licence fee arrears immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nellikode-industrial-estate-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article31967413.ece
02 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Koodathayi: trial to begin on August 8||The preliminary hearing in two of the six cases relating to Koodathayi serial killings will begin at the Kozhikode Principal Sessions Court on August 8. The preliminary hearing under Section 226 (opening case for prosecution) of the Code of Criminal Procedure is basically a legal procedure to hear the prosecution and defence sides before the court officially frames the charges and reads out the chargesheet to the accused. Principal District Judge P. Ragini will try cases of the killings in which the prime accused Jolly Joseph allegedly finished off two branches of the Ponnamattom ancestral family. The chargesheet in all the cases have been submitted in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/koodathayi-trial-to-begin-on-august-8/article31967429.ece
02 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||34 test positive in Malappuram||Thirty-four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Wednesday. While 25 of them were returnees from abroad, nine had come back from other States, said Malappuram District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. He said all of them were admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. As many as 266 infected persons are currently under treatment in Malappuram. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that 32,360 persons were currently under observation. In Palakkad Seventeen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Wednesday. All of them were returnees either from abroad or from other States. Three of them had returned from Delhi, two from Tamil Nadu, one from Maharashtra, two from Kuwait, three from Oman, and two each from the UAE, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The number of infected persons currently under treatment in Palakkad is 283. In Kannur Kannur again saw a surge in COVID-19 cases with 27 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, of the 27 cases, 13 returned from abroad, six came from other States, six were CISF personnel, one person was a Defence Security Corps staff, and one person got infected through contact. The district now has 22,801 persons under observation. Among them, 22,459 are in home quarantine. In Thrissur COVID-19 was confirmed for 16 more persons in Thrissur on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases reported in the district to 419. Among them, eight were expatriates and five came from other States. Three persons were infected through contact. A 56-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman from Irinjalakuda, who were the contacts of a COVID-19 patient who returned from UAE, and a 37-year-old woman who contracted the virus from a Kuwait returnee, were tested positive. Containment zones Three more containment zones have been declared in Thrissur district for the prevention of COVID-19. Wards 11 and 12 of Sreenarayanapuram grama panchayat and division 51 of the Thrissur Corporation are the new zones. Kattakambal, Vellankallur and Kadavallur panchayats and Kunnamkulam Municipality have been excluded from the containment zone list. Divisions 3 and 32 of the Thrissur Corporation too were excluded. In Kasaragod Ten more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district on Wednesday. Among them, six had returned from abroad, three came from other States while one got infected through contact, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. There are 7,201 persons in the district under observation. In Kozhikode The number of people recovered from COVID-19 infection exceeded those who were declared tested positive for the virus in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, 15 people were cured while only six others were newly added to the list of those infected in the district. Meanwhile, a 68-year-old native of Nadakkavu in the city, who committed suicide earlier, was declared tested positive for the virus. The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district came down to 83. Meanwhile, 692 persons were newly added to the list of those under observation, taking the total number to 19,143. In Wayanad Wayanad district on Wednesday reported three more COVID-19 cases. Officials said a 31-year-old man from Rippon near Meppadi who came from Sharjah, a 40-year-old tribal woman from Micha Bhoomi tribal hamlet Aranappara near Thirunelly who returned from neighbouring district Kodagu in Karnataka, and a 36-year-old man from Chennalode who had returned from Bengaluru tested positive for the virus. All of them were shifted to the District Hospital at Mananthavady.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/34-test-positive-in-malappuram/article31967409.ece
02 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Murdered man’s family stages dharna||The family of Manaf Pallipparamban, a Youth League worker who was murdered at Othayi near Edavanna 25 years ago, staged a dharna in front of the collectorate here on Wednesday, demanding that the government honour the High Court directive by appointing a special prosecutor in the case. The family accused the government of protecting the culprits in the case. P.V. Anvar, MLA, was one of the 21 accused who were exonerated by the trial court after the main witness turned hostile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murdered-mans-family-stages-dharna/article31967407.ece
02 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Six more cases in Pathanamthitta||Six more Non-Resident Keralites tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases in Pathanamthitta to 186, an official bulletin here said. The number of COVID-19 cases in the district since March 7 is 296, of which 109 have been cured of the disease. At present 178 patients are undergoing treatment in the district while eight are in hospitals in other districts. There are 18 people with symptoms in isolation wards. Of this, 84 people are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, six at the District Hospital, Kozhencherry, three at the General Hospital, Adoor, 69 at the First-line Covid Treatment Centre at Menanthottom Hospital, Ranni, 26 at the First-line Covid Treatment Centre at Archana Hospital, Pandalam, and eight at private hospitals. A 44-year-old man who came from the United Arab Emirates on June 16, a 29-year-old woman (Delhi, June 18), a 20-year-old youth (Maldova, June 16), a 22-year-old youth (Delhi, June 15), a 29-year-old youth (Kuwait, June 11), and a 30-year-old woman (Kuwait, June 13) are the six persons who tested positive on Wednesday. Five persons cured of disease were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, the bulletin said. As per the bulletin, 5,340 people are in quarantine at Corona Care Centres and houses in the district as on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-more-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article31967533.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four test positive in capital||Four people were diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. While two of them came from abroad, and one person from Karnataka, the fourth person is a fish vendor with a history of regular trips to Kanyakumari as part of fish trade. The 47-year-old fish vendor from Poonthura used to bring the fish stock for daily sales from Kanyakumari. On June 29, he got admitted to a hospital with severe fever. The samples were collected on the same day. Among those who tested positive, a 38-year-old man from Chempazhanthy had reached the city from Doha on June 19, after which he was in home quarantine. On June 26, he developed symptoms and samples were collected the same day. A 25-year-old man from Edava had returned from Doha on June 27. On June 28, he fell unconscious, following which COVID-19 test was carried out. A 28-year-old man from Pirappancode had returned from Bengaluru on June 27, when he started showing symptoms. The next day his samples were taken. As many as 887 people were newly put under observation in the district on Wednesday. A total of 26,803 people are in quarantine in their houses and 1,972 in institutional quarantine centres, while 84 people completed their isolation period without any symptoms. In various hospitals across the districts, 221 people are under observation. Thirty-seven people were admitted to the city’s hospitals on Wednesday with symptoms, while 34 were discharged. A total of 372 samples were sent for tests on Wednesday. The results of 426 samples were received. Curbs withdrawn Ambalathara, Puthenpally, Manikyavilakam, and Beemapally East wards have been declared containment zones. The adjoining wards, Kamaleswaram and Poonthura, have been denoted as needing special attention in a public health perspective. Containment zone restrictions were withdrawn from Karikkakom and Kadakampally wards after the situation eased there. Checking at night District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the night-time checking from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. had been stepped up. Cases under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance will be charged against those travelling during this time, except on emergencies. Action was taken against the owners of 12 vehicles for violating the curbs on Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-test-positive-in-capital/article31967473.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State revises discharge norms||The Health Department has revised the discharge policy for COVID-19 patients in tune with the Indian Council of Medical Research and WHO guidelines. Now hospitals need not wait for two negative PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test results in a gap of 24 hours to discharge a patient. The Union Health Ministry had revised the discharge criteria for COVID 19 patients on May 29 and did away with the criterion that a patient had to test negative before he could be discharged, keeping in mind the growing case burden and the shortage of PCR kits. At the time, Kerala had adopted the stand that it could still afford to keep its patients in hospitals and wait for two negative test results. Now that the health system had started to feel the strain, the Health Department has come round to the thinking that the duration of hospital stay can be rationalised. Infection period The period of infection in a patient starts usually two days prior to symptoms and lasts for about eight days. Every patient now will be kept in hospital for a minimum of 10 days. Asymptomatic cases and Category A patients with mild symptoms would undergo a repeat test on day 10 (after symptom onset) and discharged if they tested negative. For Category B and C, the repeat test will be on the 14th after symptom onset. They will be discharged if they test negative and if they have no symptoms during the last three days. All discharged patients will have to minimise social contacts for seven days after discharge. Earlier, the restrictions were for a 14-day period. “A patient does not remain infective after day 11 of symptom onset, even if the RT-PCR test shows a positive result. However, we have decided to keep every patient for a minimum of 10 days in hospital and at least one negative test result, before discharge,” a senior member of the State Medical Board said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-revises-discharge-norms/article31967445.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF offers Mani a face-saver||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Wednesday appeared to have offered the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose. K. Mani an opportunity to make a face-saving compromise with the coalition. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who chaired a meeting of the alliance, said Mr. Mani could remain in the UDF fold if the group vacated the presidentship of the Kottayam district panchayat in favour of a nominee of the side led by party chairman P.J. Joseph. (The coalition has restrained Mr. Joseph from creating a public spectacle by moving a no-confidence motion against the district panchayat president. It did not help the UDF that Mr Joseph's faction was in the minority in the panchayat. With barely three months left for the local body elections, the UDF felt the feud was not worth pursuing and ultimately self-defeating.) Mr. Chennithala appeared to be at pains to point out that the coalition had not ejected Mr. Mani from its membership. He said the UDF had disinvited Mr. Mani from attending alliance meetings till the factional leader honoured the agreement brokered by the Opposition front. The groups led by Mr. Mani and Mr. Joseph were locked in a protracted and bitter feud over the presidentship of the panchayat. Credibility at stake The UDF meeting felt that the public wrangling had chipped away at the credibility of the coalition and threatened its cohesion. It had also purportedly cost the UDF the Pala Assembly seat in the byelection prompted by the death of KC(M) founder K.M. Mani. The UDF leadership had repeatedly asked both factions to make peace with each other. The Indian Union Muslim League had led the negotiations. However, Mr. Mani did not keep his side of the bargain. He did not hand over the presidentship to Mr. Joseph’s nominee. The meeting felt that Mr. Mani had crossed a line when he publicly denied the peace deal. The UDF had merely put Mr. Mani on notice and not expelled his faction, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-offers-mani-a-face-saver/article31967449.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TDB extends curbs on temple entry||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has decided not to grant entry for devotees to the temples under its ambit till July 31. The board that met here on Wednesday took the decision in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 and the decision to have lockdown till July 31. Routine rituals Routine rituals would be conducted in all temples, including Sabarimala, but devotees would not be permitted to enter all the 1,248 temples under the board till further orders, a board release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tdb-extends-curbs-on-temple-entry/article31967451.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree speeding up textbook distribution||Kudumbashree is on mission mode to expedite the distribution of textbooks for classes I to X. This year, the distribution has been entrusted to Kudumbashree. Its Chief Executive Officer Harikishore S. says they have entered into an agreement with the Kerala Books and Publications Society (KBPS) for the distribution. Over 3 crore textbooks are being printed and distributed. The textbooks are sorted and packed at the 19 textbook hubs in 14 districts and distributed to school societies from where these are picked up by other schools in an area. With online classes under way for the past one month, Kudumbashree is going the extra mile to distribute the textbooks. Nishad C.C., Kudumbashree State programme manager, says they have made good progress since May 15 when the distribution began. Over in three districts Textbook distribution to government and aided schools has been completed in Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, and Alappuzha districts. It is 97% complete in Malappuram and Wayanad districts. In the remaining districts, the textbooks will reach societies within 10 days. Distribution of textbooks for unaided schools in Alappuzha will begin on Thursday.  Lockdown plays havoc Mr. Nishad says though the textbooks were printed in January, the lockdown announcement derailed their distribution. The original April 15 deadline for distributing the first volume of textbooks could not be met as the textbook hubs were closed on account of the COVID-19 safety protocols. With easing of restrictions, the distribution resumed mid-May. Nearly 300 people – 217 Kudumbashree women and the rest menfolk from the families of Kudumbashree members – are working extra hours to speed up the process in the wake of the launch of online classes, says Mr. Nishad. The Kudumbashree members earn Rs. 750 for a day’s work, and Rs. 100 for each additional hour. The wages are transferred by the KBPS to the respective district mission of the Kudumbashree and in turn to the bank accounts of the women. Some delays in distribution do occur such as when an area is declared a COVID-19 hotspot, but they make up for it quickly as in Wayanad, points out Mr. Nishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-speeding-up-textbook-distribution/article31967454.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Learner’s licence test to go online soon||All those who have crossed 18 years of age in the State can secure learner’s driving licences online from next week. From the 50 questions on road signage and road safety to be tossed by the Motor Vehicles Department, one has to clear 30 questions. Once the candidate clears the test in 30 minutes, the result will be flashed on the screen. The candidate can take its printout and start learning driving. The application can be submitted online by logging on to ‘Sarathi’. Documents such as photograph, proof of age, permanent address, and medical certificate can be uploaded. The fee can also be paid online. The designated Motor Vehicle Inspector (MVI) or the Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector (AMVI) will verify the application and will forward the user name and password to the mobile phone of the applicant. The online test is expected to begin next week.  Four lakh pending The initiative is the first step of the plan to make available all services online to the motorists in two months, says State Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar. Monthly, one lakh people appear for learner’s licence in the Computer Aided Learners Licence centres. “Four lakh applications are pending for the last four months owing to the lockdown,” says Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath. The 50 questions will be randomly picked by the computer and any number of applicants can appear for the test. The MVD is looking into whether the test can be conducted between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/learners-licence-test-to-go-online-soon/article31967441.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Contract workers at airport face the axe||Retrenchment fears are looming large over 900-plus contract workers employed by the Air India SATS Airports Services Pvt Ltd. (AISATS) for the ground-handling services of most of the airlines operating from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. AISATS is a joint venture between national carrier Air India and Singapore Airport Terminal Services (SATS). The AISATS management is eyeing those with two years to 10 years service. Already over 50 contract workers whose passes had expired were shown the door citing pandemic-induced crisis faced by the aviation sector, airport sources said. Identity cards The contract workers would need identity cards issued by the Airport Director to enter the facility where they were deputed for ground-handling, customer service, ramp, cargo, and cleaning works. Their applications for the passes would usually be forwarded by the AISATS management to the Airport Director after the mandatory clearance was obtained from the police station where the workers reside. But now, the AISATS management had stopped forwarding applications for renewal of the passes, sources said. The aim seemed to be to phase out all the contract workers. “The aim of the AISATS is to bring in a new lot of contract workers for ground-handling. There were allegations that a hefty sum was taken last time from those who applied for the jobs and it is said that those who pay up will be offered jobs this time too,” sources said. The move to retrench the contract workers come at a time when dozens of flights are arriving daily with the stranded Non Resident Keralites (NoRKs). The AISATS takes care of the ground-handling of several airlines, including Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait Airways, Air Arabia, Gulf Air, Air Lanka, Spicejet, Air India, and Air India Express. The joint action committee of various trade unions representing the contract workers launched an agitation from Monday.  Already over 50 contract workers have been shown the door citing pandemic-induced crisis in the aviation sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contract-workers-at-airport-face-the-axe/article31967479.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Western Ghats’ latest gift is a new species of nutmeg||The Western Ghats never cease to surprise. Now, the biodiversity hotspot has thrown up a new species of wild nutmeg. According to researchers, this is the first time in more than a 100 years that a new nutmeg species is being reported from the region. Researchers at the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI) at Palode who spotted the wild nutmeg in the Agasthyamala Biosphere Reserve have christened it Myristica trobogarii after the JNTBGRI which is in its 40th year – trobogarii - TROpical BOtanic GArden and Research Institute. The March issue of Phytotaxa , an international plant taxonomic journal, has reported the discovery by Govind M.G., Mathew Dan, and Rameshkumar K.B. New addition With the identification of Myristica trobogarii , the number of endemic plants in the nutmeg family (Myristicaceae) found in India has risen to five. Three were earlier reported from the Western Ghats and one from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands ( Myristica andamanica ). Incidentally, this is the first time in 124 years that a new nutmeg species is being reported from the Western Ghats region. That said, for the not-so-savvy in nutmeg lore, there’s a catch “spice-wise.” None of the five species is the true nutmeg (jathikka) that is familiar to us as a common spice. That credit goes to Myristica fragrans, which, though widely cultivated in Kerala, is in fact a foreigner. This nutmeg traces its origins to the Mollucas (Maluku Islands) in Indonesia. “None of the five wild nutmegs here have the flavour or fragrance of Myristica fragrans . We are all familiar with the reddish mace (aril, or the seed covering) of the nutmeg. Myristica trobogarii has a yellow mace. The fruit is also egg-shaped rather than round and bigger,” Mr. Govind said. Forest produce The uses of these wild nutmegs are largely unknown, although they are collected as forest produce. “They do find use as adulterants in the true nutmeg,” Mr. Govind said. Morphologically, Myristica trobogarii is similar in many aspects to Myristica beddomei , Myristica magnifica and Myristica malabarica – the other three species reported in the Western Ghats. But it has larger leaves, glabrous fruits and more stamens, according to the JNTBGRI team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/western-ghats-latest-gift-is-a-new-species-of-nutmeg/article31967486.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fare hike inadequate: private bus operators||Operators of around 12,500 private buses in the State have termed the special fares “inadequate” to overcome the crisis. “We were expecting a 50% hike to overcome the operational loss. But the hike is inadequate,” Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation president M.B. Sathyan and general secretary Lawerence Babu said.  Form G They said 50% of the private buses had submitted Form G to avoid motor vehicle tax and were off the road and the fare hike did not motivate them to start operating services. The price of high-speed diesel had gone up by Rs. 16 since the last fare hike in March 2018. The price had gone up by Rs. 11 from June 7 to 30 and the operators needed Rs. 1,280 for 80 litres a day, they said. The low patronage owing to the pandemic and restrictions on travel and daily price increase of high-speed diesel had broken the backbone of the private bus industry, they said. The federation also criticised the decision not to hike the bus fare for students despite the recommendation of the Fare Revision Committee headed by M. Ramachandran. ‘A setback’ Johnson Payyappilly, general secretary, All Kerala Bus Operators Forum, who approached the Kerala High Court against the withdrawal of the bus fare hike, said the special bus fare would only benefit the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and the super-class services. The ordinary buses that run on short-distance routes were the worst hit as 20 passengers legally permitted to travel standing on city buses and 11 on mofussil buses were barred now. Private bus operators depended on them for revenue and the decision not to hike the minimum fare on ordinary buses and the fare for students was a big setback to the industry, Mr. Payyappilly said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fare-hike-inadequate-private-bus-operators/article31967433.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, a Malayali touch to WHO’s online courses||When B.S. Vinayachandran, a professional sign language interpreter based in Thiruvananthapuram, interacted with the hearing impaired community during the pandemic, one of the issues all of them flagged was the lack of access to reliable information on COVID-19. With their dependence on sign language, much of the information available were beyond their reach. Enthusiastic reply After unsuccessfully knocking on many doors, Mr. Vinayachandran decided to write to the World Health Organization (WHO) some weeks ago. The same night came the enthusiastic reply from the learning and capacity building team, requesting him to make the sign language version of a WHO video on COVID-19.  The video, now among the courses offered on the WHO’s openwho.org website, has also been chosen by the Union government’s Rehabilitation Council of India (RCI) as one of its 10 annual certification courses. Two more of his sign language videos of the COVID-19 series will soon be uploaded on the website. “India has around 1.8 million hearing impaired people, who often fall prey to misinformation during situations like this. So they need resources like this. I got my photographer and editor friends to shoot and edit my sign language video. Another friend, a Hindi teacher, also dubbed the text in Hindi so that the content would be accessible to a large number of people in North India. The response has been overwhelming, with close to 50,000 views till now,” says Mr. Vinayachandran. He says the WHO team has been involved in every stage of the process, constantly consulting him or providing suggestions. The RCI, under the Union Ministry of Social Justice, has included the course as one of the 10 courses for professionals in the field. Credit points Rehabilitation professionals have to secure 50 credit points for annual renewal of registration, won through paper presentations and attending seminars. The RCI has now decided to award five points to those attending one such online course, considering the pandemic situation. “It is great that WHO is giving attention to more inclusive content. It could inspire others to replicate, reducing the communication barriers,” says Mr. Vinayachandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-a-malayali-touch-to-whos-online-courses/article31967443.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Start-ups to sign deal with industry||More than 30 start-ups are poised to ink deals with industry and corporates as they showcased their market-ready innovative products at the five-day ‘Big Demo Day’ programme, which drew to a close here with a message that technology and digitalisation are indispensable in the post-COVID-19 scenario. Virtual marketplace The potential business tie-ups will be facilitated through the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM)’s Cross Sell digital business platform, a virtual marketplace for start-ups to showcase their products to industry, which was launched at the event that concluded on June 30. The platform, www.business. startupmission.in , facilitates enrolling of both start-ups and industry. Start-ups can display the brochure of their products on the platform, and if the products are in tune with the requirement of the industry, the industrialists can interact with them in a win-win situation for all the stakeholders. More than 100 start-ups participated in the event, which had 2,000-plus visitors. Besides, 300-plus live interactions were held. The next edition of ‘Big Demo Day’ will be held from August 24 to 28.  More than 100 start-ups take part in event facilitated by KSUM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-ups-to-sign-deal-with-industry/article31967478.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fund for hospital||A amount of Rs. 15.25 crore has been sanctioned from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board as part of a master plan for the government taluk hospital at Malayinkeezh, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fund-for-hospital/article31967476.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes in 10 tribal dialects begin||Online classes being telecast on the Victers channel are now available in tribal dialects. Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath on Wednesday inaugurated the online classes in tribal dialects. As a start, the first episode of the online segment for Class I students has been translated into 10 tribal dialects – six of Wayanad, three of Malappuram, and one of Idukki.  Students from tribal communities who speak in their dialect and find the medium of instruction of the online classes (mostly Malayalam, plus English) difficult to comprehend will benefit from the classes in the Paniya, Oorali, Adiya, Kattunayakar, Kurichiya, Kuruma dialects of Wayanad, Chola Naikar, Muthuvan, and Aranadan dialects of Malappuram, and Mannan of Idukki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-in-10-tribal-dialects-begin/article31967436.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cashew listed as small and medium sector||The government has issued guidelines bringing the cashew industry into the small and medium industries sector, under plans to make it eligible for the benefits of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme announced by the Centre and enable the stricken industry to secure financial assistance from banks. A press note quoting Minister for Cashew Industry J. Mercykutty Amma said the reclassification would provide an impetus to the ailing cashew industries in Kerala which employ over 300,000 workers.  Industries have been asked to register for the Udyog Aadhaar through the MSME portal to avail themselves of the benefits. They will be required to geotag the Udyog Aadhar number on the portal of the State Industries Department to secure benefits from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-listed-as-small-and-medium-sector/article31967439.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Given additional charge||Mini Antony, Secretary, Cooperation, will be given the additional charge of Managing Director, Kerala State Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank Limited. The Cabinet on Wednesday also decided to give additional charge of Special Secretary, Water Resources, to Labour Commissioner Pranab Jyothinath. Kerala Water Authority Managing Director S. Venkatesapathy will be given additional charge of Director, Groundwater Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/given-additional-charge/article31967455.ece
02 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EC to take a call on bypolls||The Chief Electoral Officer’s (CEO) office has apprised the Central Election Commission of the crisis triggered by the COVID-19 spread and the problems in holding byelections in two Assembly segments. Commission sources told The Hindu on Wednesday that the CEO’s office had informed the CEC of the practical problems in conducting the byelections in the Kuttanad and Chavara segments that had fallen vacant following the death of former Transport Minister Thomas Chandy and CPI(M) MLA Vijayan Pillai. As per rules, once a segment falls vacant, byelection should be held within six months. Holding elections as per the COVID-19 protocol is not easy either. In the wake of the CEO’s report, the CEC would take a final call on the issue, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ec-to-take-a-call-on-bypolls/article31967452.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: private hospitals to be kept in loop||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Wednesday that private hospitals would soon be part of the COVID-19 containment activities and that the government would share all clinical information with doctors in the private sector. Field-level surveillance and reporting of severe respiratory illnesses will be strengthened. More interventions would be made to ensure that those with low immune status and those with co-morbidities are protected from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-private-hospitals-to-be-kept-in-loop/article31967434.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Registration must for arrivals: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday reiterated that persons seeking to enter Kerala from within the country and abroad required to register their particulars with the State government through the COVID-19 Jagrata portal run by the Department of Non-Keralite Affairs. The Centre had on June 29 lifted restrictions on the inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. It had also stressed that citizens would not require to seek prior permission, approval, or an e-permit to travel between States. Mr. Vijayan said the government had not barred anyone from entering the State. Ideally, the State government wanted people aspiring to travel to Kerala to register themselves on the portal to inform the State’s containment strategy. Mr. Vijayan said returnees from abroad and within the country accounted for the bulk of new infections reported in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-must-for-arrivals-cm/article31967435.ece
02 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Award for architecture studio (Re issuing)||Srijit Srinivas-Architects, an architecture studio based here, has won the jury award at the World Architecture Community awards 34th cycle 2020. The award was for the Benziger Hospice Home, a project commissioned by the Order of Discalced Carmelite to give free accommodation for cancer patients visiting hospitals in the capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-architecture-studio-re-issuing/article31967477.ece
02 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Azhikode-Munambam bridge to become a reality||The Azhikode-Munambam bridge, a long-pending demand of coastal people in Thrissur and Ernakulam districts, is expected to become a reality soon. A KIIFB fund of Rs. 140 crore has been allotted for the construction of the bridge which will connect Ernakulam and Thrissur districts. Coastal people have been complaining for long about the frequently disrupted junkar service between Azhikode and Munambam. With the ferry developing technical problems often, the service used to get disrupted many times, costing more than Rs. 1 crore to the Thrissur district panchayat which facilitates the service. Once completed, the Azhikode-Munambam bridge would be one of the longest bridges in the State, said E.T. Tyson Master, MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/azhikode-munambam-bridge-to-become-a-reality/article31967411.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Clearing the mess||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clearing-the-mess/article31967423.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest by parking||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-by-parking/article31967488.ece
02 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four Rayalaseema districts receive excess rainfall in June||With the early arrival of southwest monsoon this year, four Rayalaseema districts recorded excess rainfall in the range of 33% and 85% when compared to the average precipitation for June. Kurnool district has received 146.4 mm of rain till 8.30 a.m. on July 1, when compared to the normal of 79.1 mm; while Anantapur has received 111.2 mm against the average of 64.7 mm, which amounts to 85.1% and 71.9% excess respectively. Anantapur recorded 45.5 mm of rain (28.8% deficit) during the monsoon season last year. For the first time, the cumulative average rainfall for the district has crossed 100 mm since 2007, when 150.7 mm of rain was recorded in June, said S. Malleswari Sadhineni, agrometeorologist of Rekulakunta Agriculture Research Station. “The district recorded 169.9 mm rain in 1996, the highest ever in June. The earliest ever above 100 mm average rainfall (105.7 mm) was recorded in 1877,” said the agrometeorologist, adding that this year’s 111.2 mm is the seventh highest ever quantum recorded in history of Anantapur. The average rainfall in the State for June this year has been put at 120.3 mm, which amounts to excess precipitation by 24.1%. Even as six districts in the State has recorded normal rainfall, seven districts —Krishna, Prakasam and Nellore and four in Rayalaseema region— witnessed excess precipitation. With an average rainfall of 70.8 mm for June, Kadapa received 109.2 mm this time (54.2% excess), while Chittoor recorded 107.6 mm of rain when compared to the average of 80.8 mm (33.2% excess). e-Karshak app Meanwhile, copious rain in 49 of the total 63 mandals in the district has prompted farmers to begin groundnut sowing operations. Agriculture Joint Director Habib Basha has appealed to farmers to register their crops details through the e-Karshak app so that they could avail of the benefits being offered by the government including market intervention for MSP, if necessary. “Farmers, who do not register their crop details, will stand to lose the benefits from this year,” he added. Three deaths Meanwhile, three persons died in the district in rain-related accidents on Monday and Tuesday. Several colonies in Anantapur city and Rayadurg have been inundated. The bylanes in Venkatareddy Colony near Government Arts College in Anantapur has been under water for the past two days. The municipal authorities are trying to clear the drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-rayalaseema-districts-receive-excess-rainfall-in-june/article31967607.ece
02 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stringent lockdown begins in Anantapur||Stringent containment measures were initiated along with restrictions on movement of vehicles on the streets in Anantapur city from Wednesday as the number of COVID-19 positive cases were rising sharply for the past 10 days taking the cumulative total close to 1,900. Police personnel barricaded the main thoroughfares, and 25 areas ‘Containment Zones’ in the city were out of bounds for ‘outsiders’ and traffic came to a standstill with traffic jams seen everywhere. Flyovers closed Two major flyovers in the city were closed for traffic and social distancing went for a toss at every four-road junction with tens of people trying their best to make use of the relaxation from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. Of the 115 containment zones, 110 are in Anantapur city, said District Forest Officer R. Jagannnath Singh, who is the Nodal Officer for Containment operations. Each of the 25 identified containment zones in the city were barricaded and police deployed along with a nodal officer for the zone to take care of the needs of the people there so that they do not come out or others do not enter that locality. Anantapur city has turned into a ‘hotspot’ for the positive cases and 1,689 cases are of Anantapur district origin and the remaining are from other States or foreign countries with 35 deaths recorded so far. 30 discharged With 30 persons discharged on Wednesday, about 600 active cases were there in the district with more than 300 of them being treated in hospitals. Most of the others have been lodged in the four COVID Care Centres created in the district and a small number of people with mild symptoms opted for treatment in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stringent-lockdown-begins-in-anantapur/article31967571.ece
02 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Honour for Sri Sathya Sai former faculty member||A former guest faculty member of Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning at Puttaparthi, Sethuraman Panchanathan, has been appointed Chairman of National Science Foundation of United States, by US President Donald Trump, which is a matter of pride for the Sri Sathya Sai Organisations, a release said. Mr. Panchanathan, an alumnus of Sri Sathya Bal Vikas in Tamil Nadu, served as one of the zonal presidents of Sri Sathya Sai International Organization in the United States. The release wished him all success in his new assignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honour-for-sri-sathya-sai-former-faculty-member/article31967573.ece
02 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple ‘dies by suicide’||A young married couple committed suicide on Wednesday allegedly due to some petty argument the previous night. According to the Dharmavaram Urban police, Gauthami, 23, and K. Shivshankar, 24, died after they committed suicide separately within a gap of couple of hours in the early hours of Wednesday in the house of the girl’s parents. The two in love for the past two years, had reportedly eloped from Dharmavaram on March 3 and returned a few days later on request from the family members of both the boy and girl and got traditionally married in April. Petty arguments reportedly continued between them, and on Tuesday night before going to bed they allegedly argued, and at around 2.30 a.m. Shivshankar shouted loudly to alert everyone that Gauthami had committed suicide by hanging, the police said. An hour later, the boy fled house and slept on the Dharmavaram-Yerraguntla railway track and the body was found in the early hours by the locals. There is always someone to talk to at 100; 9989819191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-commits-suicide/article31967572.ece
02 July 2020||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA, ITDA PO distribute essentials in tribal hamlets||Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju and K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana distributed essential commodities and vegetables to tribal people in Polavaram and Buttaigudem mandals. The MLA and Mr. Suryanarayana travelled on a two-wheeler, trekked the hilly areas, crossed the creeks and reached Modugudem, a remote hamlet. They enquired about the health condition of the villagers, distribution of ration, medicines, vegetables, supply of masks. The ITDA project Officer urged the villagers to maintain hygiene, sanitise their premises and not to consume stale food. “We visited Veerannapalem, Modugudem and other tribal hamlets and hill top villages and interacted with Kondareddy tribals. Vegetables, masks and groceries were distributed in the hamlets,” said Mr. Suryanarayana on Wednesday. Mr. Balaraju said the Koya and Kondareddy tribe people were taking all measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the villages. Locals expressed satisfaction over distribution of ration by Tribal Welfare and other departments, the MLA said. The ITDA Project Officer said that essential commodities worth about Rs. 1 crore have been distributed in more than 50 tribal hamlets and in Kondareddy villages during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-itda-po-distribute-essentials-in-tribal-hamlets/article31967586.ece
02 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja smugglers chart a new route to smuggle contraband||The seizure of 4.5 kg of ganja and arrest of three Bengaluru-based youth near Vijayapuram of Nindra mandal bordering with Tamil Nadu recently led to the unravelling of the newly grounded clandestine transit route of ganja smugglers towards Tamil Nadu. The police said that the ganja smuggling is a very tedious business involving long travel from Agency areas of north Andhra Pradesh to destinations in Tamil Nadu, passing through rural areas and prudently avoiding national highways and border check-posts. Deputy SP (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar and Circle Inspector (Nagari rural) M. Rajasekhar, who led the operation, told The Hindu that the demand for ganja had escalated manifold owing to COVID-19 lockdown in view of the risky transportation and border check-posts. Diversion The modus operandi of the smugglers is to procure stocks from the Agency areas at cheaper rate and dispose them of in Tamil Nadu at a higher price. Due to surveillance on the Gudur-Chennai national highway through Tada, the smugglers allegedly take diversion towards Naidupeta and enter Chittoor district through Srikalahasti. After reaching Tirupati, they take circuitous routes through villages, entering the Nagari rural section at Vijayapuram-Kanakamma Satram (TN) and crossing into Tamil Nadu. The geography of this particular border area is that one side of the highway is under Chittoor district, and the other side belongs to Tamil Nadu. Mr. Rajasekhar said though the ganja trade was considerably negligible in Rayalaseema districts, the clandestine operation would go on with beggars in the garb of mendicants. Following stopping of passenger trains, the mendicants are now stranded at railway stations and bus stations. New ‘kick’ Meanwhile, it is observed that following steep hike in liquor prices, some youth and people of poor and downtrodden sections are getting diverted to ganja to get a “kick” at a cheaper price. “Generally, ganja consumers rarely consume liquor and those who consume liquor hardly touch ganja. Due to the lockdown and surveillance on inter-State liquor smuggling, new batches of consumers of ganja might emerge thanks to its cheaper rate compared to liquor price,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-smugglers-chart-a-new-route-to-smuggle-contraband/article31967584.ece
02 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Suicide bid’ by volunteer creates flutter||An alleged suicide bid by a woman gram volunteer after reportedly being questioned by the public over house sites issue created a flutter at B. Kothakota mandal headquarters of Madanapalle division, 150 km from here, on Wednesday. According to the B. Kothakota police, a woman volunteer, Khairunneesa (24), was reportedly upset after some local people allegedly blamed her after their names had not figured in the list of the beneficiaries of the State government’s housing scheme. Taking it as an insult for being questioned in public, the woman all of a sudden went up to the terrace of the tahsildar’s office and jumped down. The injured volunteer was rushed to the area hospital at Madanapalle. The police said she was safe and did not sustain any serious injuries. Meanwhile, a press release said that State Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddi Padma spoke to the volunteer woman victim over phone and consoled her. She asked Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta to conduct an inquiry into the episode. Those battling suicidal thoughts can dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suicide-bid-by-volunteer-creates-flutter/article31967575.ece
02 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavams begin sans devotees in Kadapa||The annual Brahmotsavams began at the temples under the purview of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) in Kadapa district on Wednesday. However, devotees were not allowed to take part in the festival in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The festival began at the shrines of Sri Chennakesava Swamy and Sri Siddheswara at Tallapaka in Rajampet mandal with ‘Dhwajarohanam’ (hoisting sacred flags atop the temple flag posts), a ritual signalling the launch of the nine-day Brahmotsavams. Strict protocols In an attempt to prevent the virus infection, the authorities have put restrictions on the congregation of devotees during the nine-day festival. All the rituals will be performed in private. Even, the processions as part of the ‘Vahana Seva’ will be confined to the inner precincts of the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavams-begin-sans-devotees-in-kadapa/article31967610.ece
02 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women demand public toilets in Kurnool||Women in Muzaffarnagar and Mudiraju Colony in the city organised a dharna on Tuesday and Wednesday demanding construction of common public toilets exclusively for women as it was difficult for them to have individual lavatories in the small spaces of their houses. They said the ones they were using for the past 24 years, in the Muzaffarnagar High School, had become difficult to access following sanction of a boundary wall. CPI(M) leaders said they would take the issue to the notice of the Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-demand-public-toilets-in-kurnool/article31967574.ece
02 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An effort for ‘Parivarthana’ among youth yielding result||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) has complimented the police for offering jobs to the unemployed youth of the families who shun ID liquor brewing and selling, in just a month, under the ‘Parivarthana’ programme. The Minister, along with Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, Revenue Divisional Officer (RD) Khajavali, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Vakul Jindal, P.V.N.R. Group Private Limited chairman Gopichand and others handed over appointment letters to the selected candidates, at a programme held here on Wednesday. To stop ID liquor business and bring a change in thandas (tribal villages), SC Colonies and other villages, the Krishna district police organised ‘Parivarthana’ in Kruthivennu, Chatrai, Bantumilli and other mandals and convinced the locals to stop arrack brewing and selling. Police, Revenue, Excise and other departments' officials assured the youth of providing jobs and arranged ‘job melas’ in the villages in the last few days. “About 500 youth, who completed SSC, intermediate, ITI, diploma, degree, MA, TTC, B.Ed., MBA, MCA, B. Tech and M. Tech from Podu, Ramavarapu Modhi, Nidamarru, Pedana, Pothanapalli, Chinna Gollapalem, Kandriga, Chinna Thanda, Reddygudem, Pedda Thanda and other villages turned up for interviews,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu. While handing over the appointment letters, the Minister appealed to the selected candidates to lead fresh and dignified lives and focus on developing their villages. “I request the youth who got selected for jobs to focus on improving skills, acquire experience, settle in life and try to bring a good name to parents, the motherland and the State,” Mr. Nani said. P.V.N.R. Group chairman Gopichand, who arranged the recruitment process, said representatives from Kia Motors, Rockmen Industries Limited, Jyothi Infra Services, Hinduja Global Services, Kotak Mahindra, Apollo Pharmacy and other companies attended the ‘job mela’. Mr. Jindal said in many villages women came forward to stop ID liquor brewing and took pledge in this regard. They handed over the utensils, cans, drums and the raw material being used for preparing arrack, he said. ‘Priority to locals’ The SP said that priority would be given to the local youth in the recruitment of government posts in various departments, and discussions were held with the heads of various organisations and departments. Jobs would be provided to the remaining youth in the thandas and other villages in the next phase of ‘job melas’ planned under ‘Parivarthana' programme, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) B. Srinivasulu, Dharmendra, Mehabub Basha, CIs Chandrashekar, Kondaiah, Shekar Babu and public representatives participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-effort-for-parivarthana-among-youth-yielding-result/article31967057.ece
02 July 2020||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Kidnapped girl rescued||In a swift operation, police solved the kidnap of a six-year-old girl and rescued her. The accused was taken into custody. The girl, resident of Amberpeta in the town, was missing from Tuesday evening. Following a complaint lodged by her mother, police formed special teams headed by Nandigama CI Kanaka Rao and SI Yesobu. By tracking the mobile phone signals of the suspect, police traced the accused, Chandu, in Vijayawada, in just a few hours and rescued the girl, Nandigama DSP G.V. Ramana Murthy said. “The girl was safe, and was handed over to her parents. Nandigama police are trying to find out the motive for the crime,” said Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kidnapped-girl-rescued-accused-held/article31966981.ece
02 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infection cases unabated in Prakasam, Nellore||There was no let-up in the incidence of COVID_19 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as 107 persons — 69 in SPSR Nellore district and 38 in Prakasam district — tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Ongole registered 14 fresh cases followed by Markapur town with 13 cases and Kandukur three. With this, the total number of active cases rose to 176 in the district, where scores of persons got infected every day after Unlock 2.0 came into vogue. The disease spread to far-flung places in the district like Inkollu, Rajupalem, Pamuru, Singarayakonda etc. Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar, who reviewed the health situation, attributed the increase in new cases to persons from other States returning to their native places in the district after the restrictions imposed during Lockdown were relaxed, necessitating enforcing of lockdown strictly. Police enforced stringent lockdown in Ongole city as people in several colonies got infected. All relaxations announced during Unlock 2.0 were withdrawn and motorists moving out of their homes unnecessarily were fined. In SPSR Nellore district the total number of confirmed cases went up to 819 with 69 persons testing positive for the disease. The number of active cases stood at 326 after discharge of 482 cured persons so far on recovery. Primary contacts of infected persons numbering 233 were quarantined. Services of doctors lauded On the occasion of the National Doctors’ Day, District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu lauded the relentless services rendered by the doctors while treating patients even risking their lives during the tough times of COVID-19 pandemic to arrest the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infection-cases-unabated-in-prakasam-nellore/article31967581.ece
02 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stick to safety norms, SP tells people||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal has urged the people to avoid unnecessary travel as the COVID-19 cases continue to rise.  ‘No room for complacency’ Riding a motorcycle, the SP on Wednesday visited various containment clusters in the city, including Indiramma Colony, Kothapatnam bus stand area, Pernamitta, ABM College area and south bypass, and enforced lockdown strictly. He noted that some residents were moving without wearing masks and ensured that they did so. People should in their own interest cooperate with the police who were performing the unenvious task of restraining the movement of people to combat the killer virus, he said. “There can be no complacency as the virus is spreading fast,” he told the police personnel on duty. The lockdown reimposed since June 21 should be strictly implemented, he told the staff who had a tough time in preventing the people from moving out of their homes without any valid reason and without following the social etiquette during the times of pandemic. Directive to personnel Mr. Kaushal wanted the police personnel to protect themselves while performing field duty in the containment zones as they were at a risk of contracting the disease. Some of them got infected due to negligence. He impressed upon them by saying it was all the more important to follow the norms like frequently disinfecting the police stations by spraying sodium hypochlorite and by wearing masks and using sanitisers, gloves, and PPE kits and maintaining distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stick-to-safety-norms-sp-tells-people/article31967579.ece
02 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD witnesses steady rise in ‘hundi’ collection post lockdown||The ‘hundi’ at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara has registered a steady increase in income ever since its re-opening for public on June 8 post COVID-19 lockdown. Though the number of pilgrims permitted for darshan has been drastically brought down to 12,000 a day, the hundi income is relatively very high. According to statistics, around 1.89 lakh devotees had darshan till June 30 during the past 22 days (excluding June 14 when the temple was closed for solar eclipse) and the hundi registered an income of about Rs. 10.27 crore. The temple records an average footfall of around 75,000 a day during the normal period while the hundi income hovers a little above Rs. 3 crore. COVID tests The TTD has also conducted COVID-19 tests for 1,570 devotees and all of them tested negative. Further to have an authentic report with regard to the health status of pilgrims, the TTD makes random calls to them after their return to their native destinations. In an exclusive chat with The Hindu, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said a separate cell was set up for the purpose. It calls a minimum of 100 devotees daily and enquires them if they were subjected to any infections while at Tirumala. “Fortunately, we have not received even a single complaint from the pilgrims so far,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-witnesses-steady-rise-in-hundi-collection-post-lockdown/article31966976.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchannaidu discharged from government hospital in Guntur||TDP MLA and former Labour Minister K. Atchannaidu, who is allegedly involved in the Rs. 150-crore ESI scandal, was discharged from the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Guntur on Wednesday. He was earlier questioned in the case by the ACB sleuths for three days in the hospital. A large number of TDP leaders and activists reached the GGH and objected to Mr. Atchannaidu’s discharge, saying that his health did not improve and that he needed further treatment. Mr. Atchannaidu himself had reportedly insisted that he be discharged only after getting the result of colonoscopy and being tested for COVID-19. However, he was taken away in a wheel-chair and shifted to Vijayawada in an ambulance amidst protests by the party cadres. The MLA, who represents Tekkali in Srikakulam district, and five others had been arrested by the ACB on June 12 on the charge of committing irregularities in the procurement of medical supplies and other equipment needed by the ESI hospitals. Meanwhile, the ACB court in Vijayawada heard the bail pleas of all the accused on Wednesday and reserved its order for July 3.  Naidu cries foul TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu objected to the manner in which Mr. Atchannaidu was discharged from hospital, and alleged that the authorities did not follow due procedure. In a statement, Mr. Naidu alleged that the time of discharge was wrongly mentioned in the records. Pressure was mounted to issue a false report, he alleged. “The government is playing with the life of Mr. Atchannaidu. The committee has given false reports. It is unfortunate that the YSRCP is not changing its vindictive attitude despite the fact that Mr. Atchannaidu had to undergo a second surgery because of its atrocious actions,” he alleged. Party Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu too condemned the discharge of Mr. Atchannaidu after 5 p.m., which, he said, was against rules. The government was even managing the hospitals and bringing pressure on the doctors to send him to jail, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atchannaidu-discharged-from-government-hospital-in-guntur/article31967595.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curve gets steeper during Unlock 1.0||With the announcement of Unlock 1.0 on June 1 and the relaxations that followed in most of the areas outside the containment zones, the COVID-19 cases witnessed a sharp rise in the State. Of the 14,959 cases registered as of Tuesday, 11,024 (74%) were in the month of June. Similarly, of the 12,202 cases of local residents getting infected in the districts, 9,160 (70%) were registered in June. On June 1, Kurnool district had over 500 cases. But, by the end of the month, six districts reported over 1,000 cases each, and Kurnool is close to breaching the 2,000-mark. Nearly half of the total local cases reported between June 2 and 30 were from Anantapur, Kurnool, Krishna and East Godavari districts. The data pertaining to the new cases district-wise on June 1 was not available. The districts that reported more than 80% of their local cases during the period June 2 and 30 were as follows: West Godavari 89%; Kadapa 87%; Anantapur 86%; Vizianagaram 83%; Visakhapatnam 81%; and East Godavari 80%. Surprisingly, Nellore district, which had reported the first COVID-19 case in the State, witnessed only 58% rise in the tally, the least in the State, during the period. In the remaining districts, the percentage varied between 63% and 79%. Fatalities The number of fatalities (123) too had gone up by 65% in June. Most of them were reported in Krishna and Kurnool districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curve-gets-steeper-during-unlock-10/article31967599.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM inaugurates cancer care centre at GGH in Guntur||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy remotely inaugurated a comprehensive cancer care centre jointly set up by the State government and the NATCO Trust at the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Guntur, from his camp office on Wednesday. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy complimented NATCO Trust chairman Nannapaneni Venkaiah Chowdary for collaborating with the government in providing free cancer treatment to the poor. Another such centre was being established in Kurnool, and it was targeted to be completed in a year. The Chief Minister said the government would be preparing electronic health records of each individual that would help in better targeting the health care services.  Hike in salaries Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy further said that the salaries of emergency medical technicians in ‘108’ ambulances was being increased from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000 depending on their service. Similarly, the salaries of drivers was being increased to Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 28,000. Sixteen new medical colleges were in the process of being set up, in addition to the 11 existing ones. Tenders for them would be invited by August 15, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-inaugurates-cancer-care-centre-at-ggh-in-guntur/article31967051.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sambasiva Rao takes over as V-C of SRM University in A.P.||Vajja Sambasiva Rao took over as the Vice-Chancellor of SRM University - Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday. An eminent academician in higher technical education in the country, Prof. Rao is an alumnus of BITS Pilani and the University of Bielefeld, Germany. Prof. Rao previously served as the president of NIIT University and was also the acting Vice-Chancellor and Director at BITS Pilani. President of SRM University-AP P. Satyanarayanan, in a statement, welcomed the new Vice-Chancellor and said that he was optimistic that Prof. Rao's strategic and operational skills combined with his deep knowledge in academic research would will help SRM-AP scale greater heights in its pursuit to be a truly global research-intensive educational institution. Registrar D. Gunasekaran said Prof. Rao’s values and collaborative leadership approach would help the university make a visible difference to the world. University Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao said with his rich and vast experience at BITS Pilani and also as the Director, BITS Hyderabad, Prof. Rao would take SRM University - AP to greater heights. “I am looking forward to contributing to the internationally acclaimed SRM Group through my best efforts. We at SRM-AP would like to see that every student graduating from here would be industry-ready and get numerous opportunities during their career,” said Prof. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sambasiva-rao-takes-over-as-v-c-of-srm-university-in-ap/article31967054.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pension for 1.15 lakh more beneficiaries from this month||Disbursement of social security pensions to 59.03 lakh pensioners began across the State on Wednesday with as many as 2.60 lakh village / ward volunteers setting out to deliver the amount to the beneficiaries at their doorstep right from dawn. The total number of beneficiaries increased by 1.15 lakh from this month. Of them, 5,165 pertained to health. About 4,010 beneficiaries, who opted for portability, would also be given pension. The government released Rs. 1,442.21 crore for the purpose, and the amount was deposited into the accounts of the village / ward secretaries through the AP SERP. Geo-tagging In view of COVID-19, the government is disbursing the pensions using the geo-tagging method. Under the system, the volunteers do not capture the biometric details of the beneficiaries. Instead, they will take the photographs of the pensioner and upload the same onto the server. A specific mobile app is being used for the purpose. P. Rajababu, CEO of SERP, said pensioners stuck at other places due to the lockdown would be given the amount on their return. The SERP found that 3,364 would be eligible in this regard. Mr. Rajababu said that 18,533 beneficiaries had applied for transfer of pension to other places within the district. Similarly, 7,501 pensioners had applied for transfer of pension to other districts from the one where the pension was sanctioned. The applications would be verified and action taken accordingly, he said. The social security pensions are given to the otherwise-abled persons, widows and people suffering from identified diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pension-for-115-lakh-more-beneficiaries-from-this-month/article31967590.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State cannot keep it promises without Central aid: Ravela||The Central government has sanctioned about Rs. 45,000 crore to Andhra Pradesh in the form of deficit financing, State’s share of taxes, and various grants, according to BJP leader Ravela Kishore Babu. “However, the YSRCP government is not giving due credit to the Centre for the support it has been availing. Instead, it is publicising everything as its own, and most of the schemes are named after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, notwithstanding the fact that without the Central assistance, the State will struggle to keep its promises,” Mr. Kishore Babu said while addressing the media here on Wednesday. Mr. Kishore Babu said none of the schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was named after him, whereas in A.P. every scheme would have the name and photograph of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy as if they were his pet projects. Garib Kalyan Yojana The BJP leader said the Central government had ensured distribution of food and other essentials worth Rs. 60,000 crore to the poor during the first three months of the lockdown. Steps were taken to distribute food items costing another Rs. 90,000 crore for July-November period as the poor and migrant workers were finding it difficult to earn two square meals a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-cannot-keep-it-promises-without-central-aid-ravela/article31967611.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agri call centre a big hit: official||Special Commissioner (Agriculture) H. Arun Kumar on Wednesday said the Agriculture Call Centre, set up at Gannavaram in Krishna district, is being operated from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The response is overwhelming with several farmers calling and clarifying their doubts, he said. Farmers can dial toll-free number 155251 and their questions will be answered by experts from Acharya N.G. Ranga Agriculture University (ANGRAU), retired scientists and crop experts. The call centre is being run in two shifts for the convenience of the farmers, the Special Commissioner said. This was the first centre being jointly run in the State by the Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Horticulture departments, Mr. Arun Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agri-call-centre-a-big-hit-official/article31967058.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit activist’s murder: ‘arrest YSR Congress MLA and CI’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to Director-General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang, urging him to take necessary steps to prevent attacks on Dalits in the State in the wake of the murder of its activist Vikram Domatoti near Ambapuram village in Guntur district on June 27. The memorandum was submitted by politburo member Varla Ramaiah, MLCs Batchula Arjunudu and P. Ashok Babu, former Minister Nakka Anand Babu, Pilli Manikya Rao and M. Dharu Naik. Mr. Varla Ramaiah, who led the team , alleged that though Vikram was living in Hyderabad, Gurazala Police Station Circle Inspector Durga Prasad directed the Dalit activist to visit the station on a daily basis in connection with a case. Accordingly, Vikram along with others used to go the police station daily at 7 a.m. and this continued for 15 days. In the name of questioning, they were forced to stay in the station till 11 p.m. On June 27, “YSRCP goons” hacked him to death after he came out of the police station, while three of his associates managed to escape with injuries, he alleged. The party alleged that Vikram was targeted by the killers with the help of ruling party MLA Kasu Mahesh Reddy and the CI and demanded that they both be arrested. Mr. Durga Prasad should be placed under suspension with immediate effect, Mr. Ramaiah sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalit-activists-murder-arrest-ysr-congress-mla-and-ci/article31967591.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. keen on providing quality education’||Education Minister A. Suresh has said the government is making all-out efforts to raise the standards of education by laying stress on quality and the residential schools will have to keep pace with the changing scenario. Addressing the AP Residential Educational Institutions Society’s Board of Governors’ meeting in the capacity of the chairman of the society on Wednesday, the Minister sought to know what steps had been taken to provide facilities at the residential schools that were identified as Centres for Excellence. He said as the name suggests, these institutions should be equipped with good infrastructure facilities and new teaching methodologies should be adopted and state-of-the-art labs should be set up. He took up for discussion 35 components listed in the agenda and urged the officials concerned to strive for comprehensive development of these schools and colleges. Other issues that came up for discussion include establishment of Excellence Regional Centres for girl students, proposals for sanction of teacher posts and promotions and transfers of the teaching and non-teaching staff. Training for teachers He wanted the officials to organise training programmes for teachers as it would pave the way for good educational standards. Principal Secretary, Department of School Education, B. Rajasekhar, Commissioner of Collegiate Education M.M. Nayak, Commissioner, School Education Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, Commissioner for Intermediate Education V. Ramakrishna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-on-providing-quality-education/article31967055.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. committed to farmers’ welfare: Jagan||Reiterating his government’s commitment to farmers’ welfare, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that e-marketing and Janata Bazaars will help them in getting remunerative price. “We have been seeing that prices fall whenever farmers want to sell their produce and steeply increase after they sell the products. This trend should change, and e-marketing and Janata Bazaars are meant to give them a fair deal,” the Chief Minister said in a review meeting here on Wednesday. He enquired about the work in progress on Janata Bazaars and the functioning of the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). “The government should buy at least 30% of local produce and market it through Janata Bazaars. Poultry and aqua products will also be purchased,” he said. RBKs should have grading, cold storage and marketing facilities, he made it clear, adding that tobacco was being purchased under the supervision of the government and prices were paid as per grading. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, and Agriculture Commissioner Pradyumna attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-farmers-welfare-jagan/article31967593.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISB roped in to improve governance in 5 depts.||The State government has tied up with the Indian School of Business (ISB) for improving the services and delivery mechanism of the five portfolios – industries, investments, infrastructure, skill development and Information Technology – vested with Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. Addressing the media at the APIIC head office at Mangalagiri on Wednesday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said that the ISB was roped in as an “advisory council,” comprising four professors, to help the departments in taking their governance structures to the next level and with transparency and cost-effectiveness as their key objectives. This was a model imported from England and other European countries, where such collaborations helped in vastly improving the governance structures. Depending on its success, the government would replicate it in other departments as per Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s wish to provide a transparent and honest governance. ‘YSR Nirman’ launched Earlier, Mr. Reddy launched the ‘YSR Nirman’ mobile app that facilitates procurement of cement by departments for public projects at standardised rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isb-roped-in-to-improve-governance-in-5-depts/article31967596.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work in courts, tribunals suspended till July 13||The High Court has suspended the functioning of subordinate courts and tribunals under its control from July 2 to 13 in view of the alarming rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. The High Court stated in a notification that the said courts would take up only urgent matters relating to bail and suspension-of-sentence petitions, accepting of solvencies, recording of statements under Sec.164 of Criminal Procedure Code, release of property petitions under Sections.451 and 457 of Cr.P.C., search and seizure petitions, injunction petitions and dispossession, demolition and eviction, through e-filing and video-conferencing. The Court has ordered that producing the accused for judicial remand and accepting of solvencies should be done through video-conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-suspended-in-ap-courts/article31967383.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction option for CET applicants||Candidates preparing for the Common Entrance Tests (CETs)-2020 in the State and who have submitted their online applications have a chance to make corrections, if any, as per the given schedule. Candidates for AP EAMCET can make changes on July 4, 5, 6 and 7. For AP ECET, the dates are July 7, 8, 9 and 10. For AP LAWCET, the dates are July 7 , 8, 9 and 10. For AP EdCET, they are July 7, 8, 9 and 10, and for AP ICET, the dates are July 10, 11, 12 and 13. For candidates preparing for AP PGECET, the available dates are July 10, 11, 12 and 13 and for AP PECET, it is July 15, 16, 17 and 18. In a statement on Wednesday, APSCHE Special Officer M. Sudhir Reddy said for more details, the candidates may visit relevant web page in http://sche.ap.gov.in/APSCHEHome.aspx.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction-option-for-cet-applicants/article31967592.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor greets Venkaiah||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Wednesday conveyed his greetings to Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on the occasion of his birthday. Mr. Harichandan wished the Vice-President a healthy and happy life, said the Raj Bhavan authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-greets-venkaiah/article31967600.ece
02 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI registers Rs. 14,448 cr. net profit, says DGM||State Bank of India (SBI), whih is celebrating its 65th Founders Day, has registered a net profit of Rs. 14,448 crore for the 2019-20 fiscal, against Rs. 862 crore during the previous financial year, said its DGM Y. Srinivas Prasad. “The SBI has Rs. 109 lakh crore deposits and Rs. 101 lakh crore advances in A.P., which comprises of two verticals, i.e. Retail an Development Banking (R&DB) and FIMM vertical,” Mr. Prasad said. On the eve of the Bank Day, the SBI has launched ‘YONO’ (You Only Need One) branches for providing better digital services to the customers, he said adding that priority was being given for MSMEs in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-registers-rs-14448-cr-net-profit-says-dgm/article31967613.ece
02 July 2020||VIJYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date extended||Due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation, the State Board of Intermediate Education has extended the last date till July 16 for submission of applications by registered educational societies/ trusts for establishment of new private unaided vocational junior colleges in the State. In a statement on Wednesday, board Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the last date for submission of application, including uploading of the required documents and geo-tagging of images, had been extended by 15 days. Any fee, once paid to the BIE, would not be refunded, he said, adding that offline (manual) payments through DDs, challans and submission of offline Form-I would not be accepted. The BIE has also extended due dates for extension of provisional affiliation and sanction of additional/new courses for vocational college managements for the academic year 2020-2021. The last date for submission of online applications without penalty is July 15 and with penalty, it is up to August 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-extended/article31967052.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Connectivity is key to development in Agency’||Rapid development alone will help eradicate left-wing extremism in Visakhapatnam Agency, and the police will focus on assisting agencies involved in development activity, Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said. In order to keep the CPI (Maoist) in check, emphasis will be laid on completing road projects and ensuring that mobile phone towers are secured. Ganja smuggling, which is also a source of revenue for the Maoists, will be curbed, Mr. Krishna Rao said. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that tribals are in need of better road and mobile phone connectivity, which are crucial for development in the Schedule V area. Visakhapatnam Agency is spread over 6,200 sq. km, and nearly 1,800 villages are totally cut off from the mainland due to lack of roads. Logistics support “The primary goal is to get more villages connected by basic metal roads, after which we will go for all-weather bitumen roads. The concerned agencies are working in this direction and we will provide them the required logistics support and security,” said Mr. Krishna Rao. The Maoists, since the beginning, have been opposing the construction of roads and it is understood that they do not want development with the sole intention of keeping the region under-developed to retain their sway. But now, tribals are coming forward and demanding the construction of roads, and some projects are progressing in the AOB region which is considered to be the Maoist heartland. The region will benefit from the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana which has allocated Rs. 82,000 crore for construction of roads in rural and tribal areas extending to a length of 1.2 lakh km. According to Mr. Krishna Rao, some road construction works in interior pockets are in progress and are in an advanced stage, such as in Annavaram police station limits and Koyyuru-Mampa- GK Veedhi road and Majigaruvu-Kilamkota route. Ambitious plans Another thing high on the tribals’ wishlist is better mobile phone connectivity in the entire Agency area. It is learnt that BSNL has plans to set up 120 mobile phone towers, while Reliance Jio is also planning to venture into the area by setting up mobile towers. Poor network coverage As of now, 20-25% of the Agency is covered by mobile phone connectivity and the plan is to take it up to at least 70% by the end of this year, Mr. Krishna Rao said. Most of the projects were progressing at a good pace but then came to a sudden halt due to the nationwide lockdown that was imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Superintendent of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/connectivity-is-key-to-development-in-agency/article31967627.ece
02 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||B.C. Roy remembered on National Doctors’ Day||National Doctors’ Day was organised by various associations across the city on Wednesday. “The day is celebrated to recognise the contribution of doctors who work relentlessly to save the lives of their patients,” said Dr. P.A. Ramani, president of Indian Medical Association’s Visakhapatnam unit. “While Doctor’s Day is celebrated by many countries across the world on different days, it is celebrated in India on July 1 to mark the birth and death anniversary of the legendary physician Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy, who made immense contributions to the cause of the promotion of science. Dr. Roy served as a physician to Mahatma Gandhi and was later elected as the second Chief Minister of West Bengal. After becoming CM, he accorded top priority to the treatment of poor and needy patients,” Dr. Ramani said. At a function at Andhra Medical College, hailing Dr. Roy as an iconic role model for the doctors’ fraternity in India, Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College, urged all doctors to rededicate themselves to the service of humanity. Dr. T. Nagamani, professor and HOD of OBG, Dr. N. Uma, Professor of OBG, Dr. T. Srinivasa Rao, Superintendent of RCD Hospital, Dr. P.V.S.S. Vijay Babu, Dr. M. Someswara Rao, Dr. L. Siva Kumar and Dr. P. Kranthi attended the celebrations. G. Arjuna, Superintendent of King George Hospital (KGH), felicitated Dr. S. Lakshmi Sowjanya, Assistant Professor of General Medicine/Nodal Officer COVID-19 of KGH for her services during the times of COVID-19. Dr. K.Indira Devi, Deputy Superintendent, Dr. Anji Babu, DCSRMO, Dr. Ch. Sadhana, Dr. M. Vijay Sankar, Dr. H.R.K. Dora and Dr. P. Bindu Madhavi, ARMOs attended. Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) and Praja Arogya Protection Committees jointly felicitated Dr. K.V.V. Vijay Kumar, Superintendent of Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD), for motivating the staff and rendering yeomen services to patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. Later, they also felicitated doctors who rendered telemedicine service, at a function jointly organised by PAV and Forum for People’s Health, for the people of both Telugu States. Over 200 doctors from both the States had extended their services to over 25,000 people during the lockdown, according to PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao. Dr. Y.L. Narasinga Rao, who extended the telemedicine service from KGH, was also felicitated by Dr. G. Arjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-roy-remembered-on-national-doctors-day/article31967622.ece
02 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stones laid||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao laid the foundation stone for various development works along with MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and Gajuwaka MLA Tippala Nagi Reddy on Wednesday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the government was implementing various welfare schemes to provide quality education. These include Amma Vodi, Vasati Deevena, Vidya Deevena and provision of basic amenities in schools. He called upon the public to avail the benefit of the schemes. He distributed essential commodities to the poor in Simhachalam, laid the foundation stone for construction of a dining hall at the ZP High School at Gajuwaka with MPLADS of Mr. Satyanarayana. The Minister also laid the foundation for construction of a road in Zone-V of GVMC at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh and for construction of RCC drains in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-stones-laid/article31967617.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VCCI hails financial package for MSMEs||The ReSTART financial package announced by the State Government for MSMEs would breathe a new lease of life into industries that were on the deathbed, Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry president G. Veeramohan said on Wednesday. Appreciating Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s gesture, Mr. Veeramohan said that it was not an easy thing to release over Rs. 1,200 crore at a time when the State was facing a severe financial crisis. Mr. Veeramohan requested the government to release incentives kept pending by the previous government and waiver of fixed/demand charges of power for three months. He said the waiver of fixed demand charges of power was not extended to retail, hotels and convention centres. He also sought waiver of property tax, trade licence and profession tax for three months for all establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vcci-hails-financial-package-for-msmes/article31967619.ece
02 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI faults govt. agencies for industrial accident||CPI State secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy attributed the accident at Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited, which resulted in the death of two persons and hospitalisation of four others, to the negligence of government agencies. The CPI leader along with other leaders visited the accident site on Tuesday, but were stopped at the plant gate by police. Speaking to the media, Mr. Murthy alleged that political leaders were not allowed into the plant as lapses at the plant would come to light. Officials of the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB)and the District Industries Centre (DIC) should be held responsible for the accident. He said that there was no change in the attitude of officials though accidents were occurring frequently at various industries in the district. Mr. Murthy also sought payment of Rs. 1 crore as compensation for the kin of the deceased and Rs. 25 lakh for those who underwent treatment at hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-faults-govt-agencies-for-industrial-accident/article31967620.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call fresh tenders for ambulances: TDP||TDP Urban District president and Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has alleged that Rs. 388-crore scam has taken place in the award of tenders for the ‘104’ and ‘108’ ambulances in the State. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Kumar alleged that YSR Congress Party general secretary and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had got the contract in favour of his son-in-law by flouting norms. He wondered how the Aurobindo Foundation was given the contract. He recalled that the TDP government had continued the contract given to the GVK group after coming to power in 2014. On expiry of the contract in 2016, it had gone for global bidding. The MLA demanded cancellation of the tenders and calling of fresh ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-fresh-tenders-for-ambulances-tdp/article31967589.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth ‘drowns’ at harbour||A youth reportedly drowned near the fishing harbour under One Town police station limits in Visakhapatnam city. The deceased was identified as B. Konda (19), a resident of One Town area. The incident came to light after his body was seen in the waters at around 9 a.m. on Wednesday. Konda worked as a watchman at the fishing harbour. On the night of June 29, he left home and did not return. On June 30, his parents lodged a missing person’s complaint. “We initially registered a missing case but later amended it to a case of unnatural death under Cr. PC Section 174. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Based on the report, the reason behind his death will be ascertained,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-drowns-at-harbour/article31967624.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam trust board withdraws appointment||The authorities have withdrawn the appointment of Geddam Uma as a member of the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam Trust Board, saying that she is not qualified to be a member as per the Section 19 (1)(I) of the A.P. Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987. Ms. Uma is 26 years old, while the qualifying age is 32, said the devasthanam officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-trust-board-withdraws-appointment/article31967612.ece
02 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI NSTL branch shifted||A new premises of the NSTL branch of State Bank of India was inaugurated by NSTL Director O.R. Nandagopan on Wednesday. Deputy General Manager of SBI K. Rangarajan said the office was shifted to the new building in order to provide better services to customers. The NSTL Director commended the staff for their service, especially during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-nstl-branch-shifted/article31967616.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation day celebrated||Officials of the School of Distance Education, Andhra University their 48th foundation day on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr. L. Bullayya, the former Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University. Director P. Hari Prakash highlighted the progress of the School of Distance Education. He said that the school was started in 1972 with 265 students, and now the strength has been raised upto 60,000 students. The school offers 48 courses, and has 24 study centres and 60 examination centres across Andhra Pradesh. He thanked both the administration and the institute’s staff for the support. Registrar V. Krishna Mohan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-day-celebrated/article31967618.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA looks to boost revenues as earnings dip||The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) generated Rs. 8.46 crore in revenue during the first quarter of this fiscal, while expenditure stood at Rs. 18.49 crore, chairman D. Srinivasa Rao said on Wednesday. In comparison, the VMRDA’s earnings stood at Rs. 26.62 crore while spending stood at Rs. 32 crore in the first quarter of 2018-19, and for the corresponding period in 2019-20, it earned Rs. 24.87 crore and spent Rs. 28.47 crore, he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao was reviewing the VMRDA’s financial position in a video-conference and directed authorities to take appropriate steps to strengthen the civic body’s finances in view of the COVID-19 crisis. ‘Self-sufficiency’ “For resource mobilisation and to achieve economic self-sufficiency, as part of immediate steps to boost revenues, all the vacant shopping complexes, open sites and odd-bits are to be auctioned off in accordance with the regulations. The open auditorium at Peda Gantyada should be put to use. Conducting of auction and sale of plots at Dakamarri layout should be done to generate revenue,” he said, asking officials to identify potential areas for the VMRDA to develop developing new layouts, which would boost revenue. VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao, Additional Commissioner Manajir Jilani Samoon, and others attended the video-conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmrda-looks-to-boost-revenues-as-earnings-dip/article31967625.ece
02 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club plans dialysis centre in city||Capt. R.S. Kali Prasad has taken over as the silver jubilee president in the 25th year of Rotary Club of Visakha Port City on Wednesday. Rotary International District governor elect M. Rama Rao also installed Vithal Prasad as secretary and other board members. Capt. Kali Prasad spoke of his plans to start a dialysis centre at the existing Rotary Blood Bank in the city, to provide services to the poor at a low cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-plans-dialysis-centre-in-city/article31967623.ece
02 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special prayers offered to deity on Ekadasi||Special prayers were offered to the presiding deities, Lord Jagannath Swamy, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra, in Jagannath Swamy temple here on Wednesday on the occasion of Ashadhi Ekadasi. A procession was also carried out in the town as the day marks the culmination of Ratha Yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-prayers-offered-to-deity-on-ekadasi/article31967582.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown talk in Telangana triggers rush at checkposts on the border||With rumours of possible imposition of lockdown in Telangana spreading in the wake of spurt in COVID-19 cases, heavy rush was seen at the border check-posts in Krishna and West Godavari districts on Wednesday. Employees of various private and government companies and those settled in Hyderabad and the neighbouring districts and natives of Andhra Pradesh, are rushing to their native towns. Long queues were seen at the check-posts located at Garikapadu, Tiruvuru, Jaggaiahpet, Jeelugumilli, Jangareddygudem and other points since Tuesday night. Many people were returning to Andhra Pradesh by cars and two-wheelers. Vehicles from Telangana would be allowed from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. However, emergency vehicles would be allowed into Andhra Pradesh after thorough checking, said Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao. “All the passengers should wear masks and follow the COVID-19 protocol and cooperate with the police at the check-posts,” the DIG told The Hindu .  He requested those who wanted to enter into the State to apply for e-pass. Only pass holders would be allowed, Mr. Mohan Rao added. Security stepped up Meanwhile, the police stepped up security on the National Highway and all other sub-roads leading to Andhra Pradesh in West Godavari and Krishna districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-talk-in-telangana-triggers-rush-at-checkposts-on-the-border/article31967602.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm at isolated places likely||With the southwest monsoon remaining active over coastal Andhra Pradesh and vigorous over Rayalaseema; thunderstorm, along with lightning, is likely to occur at isolated places in the coastal district and Yanam till July 5, weathermen have said. Under the influence of monsoon, heavy rainfall occurred in Vizianagaram, Anantapur and Kurnool districts. Thunderstorm is expected to occur at isolated places in Rayalaseema on Thursday, said a report released by the IMD on Wednesday. Rainfall occurred at a few places in coastal A.P., Yanam and Rayalaseema. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday are: Parvathipuram (Vizianagaram) 9, Komarada (Vizianagaram) 8, Nellore (Nellore) 4, Tiruvuru (Krishna) 4, Gudur (Nellore) 3, Tanuku (West Godavari) 3, Kurupam (Vizianagaram) 3 and Mundlamuru (Prakasam) 3. The rainfalls recorded in Rayalaseema are: Nambulipulikunta (Anantapur) 7, Dornipadu (Kurnool) 7, Allagadda (Kurnool) 7, Chilamathur (Anantapur) 6, Muddanur (Kadapa) 5, Jammalamadugu (Kadapa) 5, Rudravaram (Kurnool) 5, Pulivendla (Kadapa) 5, Koilkuntla (Kurnool) 5, Tanakal (Anantapur) 5, Badvel (Kadapa) 4, Royachoti (Kadapa) 4, Nandyal (Kurnool) 4, Pakala (Chittoor) 4, Rajampet (Kadapa) 3, Lakkireddipalle (Kadapa) 3, Vempalle (Kadapa) 3, Satyavedu (Chittoor) 3, Kadapa (Kadapa) 3, Duvvur (Kadapa) 3, Puttur (Chittoor) 3, Palamaner (Chittoor) 3 and Banaganapalle (Kurnool) 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thunderstorm-at-isolated-places-likely/article31967605.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘starves’ to death after son tests positive||A 70-year-old retired employee of Tamil Nadu government and a resident of Nagari town, died of a week-long reported self-imposed starvation on Tuesday, after his 40-year-old son was sent to a quarantine facility in Tirupati last week. With none to help arrange the funeral, the Nagari police gave him a decent farewell. After the last rites were performed, the son too died reportedly after being tested positive for the virus. According to information, the son , a lorry driver, showed COVID-19 symptoms, and was shifted to a quarantine facility in Tirupati from Nagari on June 24 night. The father, a widower, returned home and reportedly confined himself to a rickety room. Since then, he reportedly stopped eating and was surviving on water and tea. His daughter-in-law, grandchildren and relatives who live in the same locality, kept themselves aloof from the “self-quarantined” man. Fear in locality Even before his son’s test reports came, fear-stricken people living turned the locality into an undeclared red zone. A boy, who supplies milk, knocked the door of the elderly man’s house on Tuesday, but there was no response. He returned again at noon, but to no avail. Seeing the lifeless man through the window, neighbours suspected that he might have died of COVID-19 and refused to go near the house. A student of the locality is said to have passed on the message to SP S. Senthil Kumar, who, in turn, instructed Nagari Circle-Inspector K. Maddaiahchari to do the needful. By the time the police reached the locality in the evening, the entire neighborhood was behind the doors. “Even his family members and relatives refused to come out. A neighbour just threw a crowbar to help us break the door and bring out the body. After the job was done, there was none to claim the crowbar back,” said the Inspector. The police arranged a hearse for the elderly man’s last journey. Amidst stiff opposition by some locals, who refused to allow the body into the burial ground on the outskirts, Mr. Maddaiahchari accomplished the task by late Tuesday evening. Interestingly, the elderly man was declared negative for the virus after his death. Immediately after his funeral, the report reached his daughter-in-law that the elderly man’s son died around 8 p.m on Tuesday at Tirupati’s COVID hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-starves-to-death-after-son-tests-positive/article31967608.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green cover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/green-cover/article31967061.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Busy bees||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/busy-bees/article31967588.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nowhere to play||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nowhere-to-play/article31967629.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye in the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-in-the-sky/article31967604.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wait and watch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wait-and-watch/article31967615.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||What is govt. policy on e-classes by private schools, asks HC||Does the State government have a clear policy on private schools in the State holding online classes, the Telangana High Court sought to know on Wednesday. Hearing a PIL plea challenging the conduct of online classes by private schools, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy wanted to know if the government wanted to permit it or not. The bench issued notices to Chief Secretary, Director of School Education and District Educational Officers of Hyderabad and Rangareddy and the Telangana Registered Schools Management Association on the matter. They were directed to file counter affidavits by July 3. The PIL petition was filed by Hyderabad Schools Parents Association represented by its joint secretary K. Venkat Sainath. The association contended that conducting online classes by private schools amounted to violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution as the classes would subject the students to severe physical and mental stress. It also constituted violation of Article 21A of the Constitution which guaranteed the right to free and compulsory education. The petitioner also told the court that the private schools were collecting admission fee, term fee, development charges, library fee and extra-curricular activities from the parents of students. This was in violation of the GO no. 46 issued by the State government on April 21, 2020. As per that GO, the schools were directed to collect only monthly fee from students, the petitioner said. While the Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar, appearing for government, sought time for a detailed reply on the matter, the bench wanted to know what the government’s stand was in permitting the private schools to go for online classes. Mr. Kumar informed the court that already DEOs of some districts issued notices stating that online classes was not permitted. Were the notices confined to some districts or that decision was uniform across the State, the bench asked him. The CJ observed that a single judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court had already given guidelines on conducting online classes for school students. When a government counsel informed the Centre had already issued guidelines on the subject, the bench asked if they were binding on all the States. “If a family has three children and two of them go to different schools, how can they afford to have two electronic gadgets to attend online classes,” the bench asked the government counsel. It said the government should come out with a clear policy on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/what-is-govt-policy-on-e-classes-by-private-schools-asks-hc/article31967333.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Court nod speeds up process for vacating old Secretariat||The State government has initiated steps to vacate the old Secretariat, kick-starting the process for demolition of the existing buildings so that construction of a new complex could be taken up at the earliest. Workers have already been deployed to shift the furniture and other leftover material in the old Secretariat while vehicles that had been left in the premises for several years are also being shifted. More than 100 four-wheelers, a few two and three-wheelers are lying unused on the Secretariat premises. The government deployed tow-away vehicles to shift the vehicles from the old Secretariat complex to Nizam College grounds where they would be kept at least temporarily. A majority of these four-wheelers, including those allocated to the officials in the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh State, were kept in the helipad set up on the Secretariat premises during the tenure of former united AP Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Officials said several vehicles left stranded on the old premises were still in working condition. Officials concerned of the Transport department would be asked to test the road worthiness of the leftover vehicles before notifying the auction process for disposing of them. The Information Technology department had almost completed shifting of all the equipment including the data centre to the new Secretariat located at Burgula Ramakrishna Rao Bhavan. There was, however, delay in shifting the central server owing to technical issues. Senior officials said the shifting of central server handling the State government’s online services had been completed and works including the Registration of documents would commence in a day or two. The development assumes significance in the light of the green signal given by the High Court for construction of the new Secretariat complex on Tuesday. Immediately after the cases filed against the demolition of the old premises were disposed of by the court, the government had started works on vacating the old premises without any delay. The government is considering various options including use of implosion technology to demolish the existing structures, spread over 9 lakh sq.ft of built up area in nine buildings so as to avoid scope for any further litigation in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/court-nod-speeds-up-process-for-vacating-old-secretariat/article31967373.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Better coordination of Central, TS health schemes needed: UoH study||The Prime Minister Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) and the Telangana government’s Aarogyasri must be re-purposed as an effective policy that would help save lives and economy during the present COVID-19 crisis. A study by University of Hyderabad (UoH) has found that the portability modalities due to lack of MoU between the State and Centre had affected in dealing with the present situation. The study revealed that, on the positive side, the health department has been successful both in identifying and controlling the local spread of COVID-19 within communities. It also found that the migrant management was facilitated effectively and the office of the municipalities was able to identify the migrant workers and send them back to their native places, a press release from UoH said. The study, taken up as part of the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directive for a comprehensive understanding on community awareness of COVID-19, covered 342 households with 36 field investigators of the varsity involved. Further, it said leadership of the local self-government and health department also assisted the affected communities to undertake home quarantine for the civilians, who travelled from outside to their areas. In matters of sanitation and cleanliness, incredible work was visible on the ground but there were some limitations in the domain of conducting awareness programmes and door-to-door surveys to trace the positive cases. On the work front, farming and dairy activities were not affected compared to non-farming informal sector. However, the survey said housing facilities, enabling working conditions, nutrition and livelihoods still needed urgent attention from the State, specifically for the marginalised sections. The respondents also revealed the benefits and entitlements like food security schemes and old-age pensions were being made available to the communities. Five villages in the surroundings of UoH — Tellapur, Osman Nagar, Kolluru, Velmula and Vattinagulapally — were surveyed. The core team of the university in the survey included Phanindra Goyari, Krishna Reddy Chittedi, B.R. Shamanna, T. Apparao, Asima Jena, V. Srinivasa Rao and Ashish Jacob Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/better-coordination-of-central-ts-health-schemes-needed-uoh-study/article31967340.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Restrictions in Telangana extended till July 31||A day after the Centre issued fresh guidelines on COVID-19 management, the State government announced extension of existing restrictions in the State till July 31. In the order issued late on Tuesday night, the government announced some relaxations in line with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Union Ministry issued orders for extending the lockdown in containment zones along with reopening of activities in a calibrated manner in areas outside the containment zones. Accordingly, the State government said movement of people (other than for accessing emergency medical care) would remain prohibited from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. However, movement of persons for operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons on national and State highways, loading and unloading of cargo and travel of people disembarking from flights to their destinations would be permitted. No shops and establishments, except hospitals and pharmacies, would remain open after 9.30 p.m., the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/restrictions-in-telangana-extended-till-july-31/article31967357.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stranded NRIs seek clearance to fly back to UAE||A group of NRIs from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) stuck in India since the lockdown has urged the Central government to clear their request to fly back to their country. About 150 of these people have also arranged a chartered flight for them after securing all the permissions from the UAE government but the clearance from the Indian government is yet to come, despite repeated attempts. They have to fly back before July 2 when the clearances from UAE authorities will expire. “We have to fly before July 2. Requests to the Union Aviation ministry in India has seen no response so far,” said Raja Srinivasa Rao Aita of Telangana Friends’ Association (TFA). The TFA has also represented to Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy seeking his help for the clearance of a chartered flight. The Minister apparently forwarded the same to the Civil Aviation Minister with a request but the clearance is yet to come. “We need to enter UAE at any cost,” said Ratna of TFA. Many of these NRIs are parents, children and elders separated from their families and with no work as they were stranded here for the last three months. They had been making efforts for three months to go back to UAE but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stranded-nris-seek-clearance-to-fly-back-to-uae/article31967347.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Declare health emergency’||Malkajgiri MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has urged the Central government to declare health emergency in the State as the government had ‘failed’ in its management of COVID-19. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he alleged that the fundamental ‘Right to Health’ is being denied in Telangana where fewer tests are being done despite the alarming rise in corona cases. Accusing the government to mishandling the issue, he said the advice of the Central government was not heeded while the guidelines imposed by the ICMR were neglected. Even the High Court judgements were not respected, he alleged. Mr. Reddy further said that the State has the highest positivity rate in the country at a 27%, whereas Maharashtra is at 22%. He said the tests were abysmally low with just 70,000 tests done so far despite Hyderabad being one of the biggest metros in the country with huge volumes of traffic within and from outside. The neighbouring AP has done over six lakh tests, he said. The Congress MP said the availability of testing options are present in the hospitals of Hyderabad but barely available in districts. However, only government-owned Gandhi Hospital is recognised as a government approved treatment centre and it is totally under-staffed. Though private medical colleges are plenty in Hyderabad and surrounding areas, they are not being used to their potential, he said alleging that the government is reluctant to use them as majority of them are owned by relatives or people close to the ruling TRS leaders. He said these should be immediately taken over and used for the purpose of providing quarantine and isolation facilities to those who cannot afford corporate treatment due to exorbitant prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/declare-health-emergency/article31967364.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor’s pep talk to doctors||“Doctors need not get demoralised with the sporadic malicious social media postings. We are all with you. Doctors are doing an extremely commendable job in the forefront in our fight against COVID-19,” said Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. Lauding their efforts, the Governor, who herself is a doctor, stated that the medical personnel are putting their lives at risk and that of their families to take care of the patients. She was interacting with doctors and superintendents of different COVID hospitals through a video conference from the Raj Bhavan here, on Wednesday, on the occasion of National Doctors’ Day. “On this special occasion, I salute the bravery and kind heartedness shown by the doctors and other staff who are taking care of the patients,” Ms. Soundararajan said. The Governor said she was emotionally connected to the doctor fraternity and assured that the government machinery and administration are with them in these testing times. Referring to public participation in the prevention of coronavirus spread, she exhorted people to maintain physical distance, wear masks, wash hands frequently and avoid gatherings. Some of the suggestions from the doctors included better public awareness, strict adherence of preventive measures, politicians avoiding public gatherings during their visits, personal hygiene, nutritious diet, regular yoga and physical exercise, and maintaining a positive attitude. Earlier, she offered floral tributes to a portrait of Bharat Ratna Dr. B.C. Roy, whose birth anniversary is celebrated as National Doctorss Day on July 1 every year. Eminent doctors and Padma awardees Dasari Prasada Rao, Narendra Nath Lavu, Allampur Sai Baba Goud, C. Venkata S Ram, Manjula Anagoni, Raghuram Pillareshetty, Alla Gopala Krishna Gokhale, Mohd Abdul Waheed participated in the video conference apart from superintendents of various government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governors-pep-talk-to-doctors/article31967336.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Setting a GOAL for tribal youth||Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs in association with Facebook India Pvt. Ltd. has launched a digitally-enabled training programme called ‘GOAL’ (Going Online As Leaders) across the country to personally train and provide internship programmes to 5,000 tribal youth. Online applications are being sought from tribal youth of the age group of 18-35 years who are interested in business, education, health, politics, entrepreneurship, arts, research, and life skills, among others. They can register their names on the tribal welfare ministry’s website goal.tribal.gov.in. Selected candidates will be provided training for nine months using digital technologies, including internship opportunities in reputed organisations. They will be given a smartphone with internet access for a year and certificates will be issued to candidates after successful completion of the programme. Work opportunities will also be provided in reputed private and government organisations to deserving candidates. The tribal affairs ministry also seeks online applications from teachers and principals of Eklavya Model Residential Schools in Telangana and experts in the field of business, education, health, politics, dance, culture, and entrepreneurship, among others, to train tribal youth in the above fields. Interested mentors are requested to register their names on the ministry’s website. For further details, candidates can write to facebook-goal@tribal.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/setting-a-goal-for-tribal-youth/article31967346.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fire breaks out at cancer hospital||A fire broke out at a portion of the MNJ Institute of Oncology and Regional Cancer Centre at Bazar Guard on Wednesday morning. However, firemen confirmed that there were no casualties. According to Station Fire Officer, Legislative Assembly, K. Tukaram, the fire broke out around 8.30 a.m. after which fire tenders from the Assembly Fire Station and Secretariat were rushed to the spot. “It took us around 20 minutes to control the flames,” he said. “Though one vehicle would have sufficed, we did not want to take chances. So, a second vehicle was sent. According to our preliminary information, the cause of fire is electrical in nature. It broke out in a room that had a computer, two refrigerators and ACs, damaging some of them. The loss is estimated to be around Rs. 1.5 lakh. Blood samples stored in another room are safe. We have ruled out any suspicious activity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-breaks-out-at-cancer-hospital/article31967355.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UPSC aspirants can change exam centre||The Union Public Service Commission has decided to allow aspirants to change their choice of centre for the civil services preliminary examination to be held on October 4 this year and the civil services main examination on January 8, 2021. A statement on the commission’s website said the window for submitting the revised choice of centres by candidates will be operational in two phases — from July 7 to 13 and July 20 to 24 and it can be done on the website (https://upsconline.nic.in). The choice of the candidate’s request will be considered based on the principle of first apply-first allot basis. In case a centre reaches its capacity, the same will be frozen. In the same note, the commission has notified a provision that aspirants can withdraw their applications in case they wish not to appear for the examination and they can do so from August 1 to 8. However, there are no disqualifications in case a candidate does not withdraw his or her application and does not appear for the exam.  How to apply One can submit revised choice of centre from July 7-13 and July 20-24 on https://upsconline.nic.in Request to be considered based on first apply-first allot basis Once a centre reaches its capacity, the choice will be frozen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/upsc-aspirants-can-change-exam-centre/article31967341.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Director’s complaint against online ‘trolling’||Film director Tharun Bhascker Dhaassyam on Wednesday filed a complaint with the Cyberabad Cyber Crime police against online trolling following a post ‘films in general’. In his police complaint, the film director said that his post was distorted after which he was subjected to online trolling. Naming two persons specifically, Mr. Dhaassyam said that his team called them up and explained that the post was ‘distorted’. “The recording of the phone conversation has been submitted to the police,” the director said. “We received a complaint about comments from a few Twitter IDs on Mr. Dhaassyam, his team and family members, for the last three days. We are inquiring into the matter and will initiate action depending on the seriousness of the comments posted, as per law,” Cyber Crime Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) S. Harinath said. 3 booked for trespassing Alwal police booked three persons for allegedly trespassing into a land parcel. According to the police, one N. Mohan Reddy lodged a complaint alleging that M. Janardhan Reddy, Subash Chandra Goud and T. Devender Reddy trespassed into his three acre 24 gunta land parcel around 6 p.m. on Tuesday. While a case has been booked, Alwal inspector P. Yadagiri said that nobody was manhandled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/directors-complaint-against-online-trolling/article31967354.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Bring more customers into digital banking’||State Bank of India (SBI) Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra has urged the staff to focus on customer service and bring more customers on digital banking platforms. The digital banking channels are robust, equipped with highest level of security and enable customers to carry out transactions at any time and at any place of their choice. The bank’s digital banking platform YONO has made banking accessible to millions, he said on the occasion of the Bank Day celebrations. “We take pride in touching millions of lives with innovative digital products, product accessibility and customer convenience through “AnyTime channels” like ATMs, CDMs, Recyclers, Micro ATMs, Internet Banking,” Mr. Mishra said in a virtual address. Emphasising the importance of Bank Day and the need for extending excellent service to customers, he said the staff also needed to exercise caution and take utmost care by adhering to social distancing measures, wearing mask and using sanitisers as measures to safeguard themselves and customers from the spread of virus. Lighting of lamp, planting of saplings and community services banking marked the Bank Day celebrations organised by the State Bank of India (SBI) Hyderabad Circle the Local Head Office in Koti, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bring-more-customers-into-digital-banking/article31967375.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A donors’ association to boost plasma therapy||To encourage plasma therapy in COVID-19 treatment, a Plasma Donors’ Association is being formed to motivate virus-recovered patients to donate their plasma. The Delhi and Maharashtra governments have already decided to employ plasma treatment. The former was setting up a plasma bank while the latter has set up ‘Project Platina’ involving 500 critical patients to encourage plasma usage, said Congress leader Guduru Narayana Reddy, who has taken up the responsibility of starting the association here. Connecting people Mr. Reddy, who has just recovered from the virus, said in a statement here that the proposed association will connect people who recovered from the coronavirus infection and are willing to donate their plasma. “As on today, 7,294 people have recovered from COVID in Telangana. Even if half of them are eligible to donate their plasma, they can help save nearly 2,000 lives,” he said. He said the Telangana government should encourage bringing together recovered patients so that those in need can contact them through a telephone number or an e-mail ID on the advice of the doctor concerned. Flays TRS govt. Mr. Reddy wanted the government to focus on tracing, testing and treatment though they have already “lost precious time in handling the situation due to distracted, distorted and casual approach”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-donors-association-to-boost-plasma-therapy/article31967337.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UV disinfection systems to keep homes virus-free||City-based Mekins Industries Limited in association with International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI) has come out with two new UV disinfection systems including a ‘Safe Box’ and ‘Safe Blade’ to keep household or office goods free from COVID-19. Personal items like mobile phones, books, car keys, helmet, shoes, belt etc. can be placed inside the UVC Safe Box for 5-10 minutes to disinfect them. “We can disinfect courier boxes and wallets. We have two models, one with an in-built timer and the other without a timer,” said CEO Mayank Agarwal (www.mekins.com) on Tuesday. UV light in the range of wavelengths between 200 and 300 nm is capable of inactivating microorganisms, such as bacteria and viruses, thus disinfecting both air and solid surfaces. The other device is a personal hand-held UVC Disinfection Blade or Safe Blade to clean personal office tables, computers, mobile phones etc. Personal articles can be exposed to UVC light in a close distance of under 50mm for 45-60 seconds for disinfection, explained Mr. Agarwal. Both the products are said to have been made based on requests from multiple customers, he explained. The firm is shipping in the city limits. Enquiries can be directed to the e-mail ID: fightcovid@mekins.com. The Safe Blade is priced at Rs. 4,990 while the Safe Box without timer comes for Rs. 9,990 and the one with timer costs Rs. 11,760.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uv-disinfection-systems-to-keep-homes-virus-free/article31967343.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘1.96 lakh farmers to get Rythu Bandhu soon’||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked the landholding farmers who have not received Rythu Bandhu investment support so far this season to get their details enrolled with the Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) concerned till July 5 by giving the details of their Record of Rights (paatadar passbook), bank account details and Aadhaar details. Speaking at Wanaparthy on Wednesday, the Minister explained that about 1.96 lakh farmers have enrolled their details of bank accounts during the last week and the Rythu Bandhu amount of Rs. 214.75 crore for them would be credited soon. He noted that a total of 55.06 lakh farmers’ bank accounts have been credited Rs. 6,987.9 crore for their 1,39,76,000 acres of landholding. Mistakes in details Stating that the crediting of such a huge amount into most of the 55 lakh farmers’ bank accounts in just 36 hours was a sort of a world record, the Minister explained that the bank account details of about 28,000 farmers were not proper – either misquoting of IFSC code or wrong account number or closed bank branches – and the attempt made to credit the Rythu Bandhu amount did not succeed. He suggested the 28,000 farmers too to meet the AEOs concerned and get their bank account details rectified. Besides, there were discrepancies in the names of about 11,000 farmers in the bank passbook, Aadhaar card and pattadar passbook and the officials concerned have been instructed to rectify the details. The Minister suggested the farmers concerned to meet the AEOs for details about getting the discrepancies rectified. The Minister also asked the Agriculture Department officials to ensure that farmers who did not get Rythu Bandhu amount so far get it by helping them get their details rectified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/196-lakh-farmers-to-get-rythu-bandhu-soon/article31967360.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dr. Reddy’s inks pact on COVID-19 drug||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Wednesday said it had joined hands with Japan’s Fujifilm Toyama Chemical and the Dubai-based Global Response Aid (GRA) to develop, manufacture and sell the Japanese firm’s antiviral drug, Avigan, that has emerged a potential treatment of COVID-19. Under the agreement signed on Tuesday, Fujifilm granted Dr. Reddy’s the exclusive rights of manufacturing. It also granted both Dr. Reddy’s and GRA the rights to develop, sell and distribute Avigan in all countries other than Japan, China and Russia. Fujifilm would receive an upfront licence fee and royalties on sales from Dr. Reddy’s and GRA. The generic name of Avigan is Favipiravir. In a statement, the Hyderabad-headquartered pharma major said Fujifilm would provide the company and GRA with data it had accumulated on Avigan. Fujifilm would also grant Dr.Reddy’s the right to use Avigan’s patents of formulation and manufacturing method. Dr. Reddy’s would establish a setup for manufacturing drugs of the same quality as Avigan and utilise GRA’s global sales network to supply the manufactured drugs swiftly and in a stable manner, the release said. The Fujifilm Group is conducting a clinical study on Avigan targeting COVID-19 patients in Japan and the U.S. Avigan tablet was developed by Fujifilm Toyama Chemical and had been approved for manufacture and sale in Japan in 2014 as an influenza antiviral drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dr-reddys-inks-pact-on-covid-19-drug/article31967377.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Degree admissions postponed||The degree admissions process has been stalled for the time being with the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) deciding to stop the registrations through Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST). The registrations were to open on Wednesday and continue till July 14 in the first phase of admissions and the web options were to open from July 6 to 15 and the seat allotments on July 22. However, the registrations were suspended due to the pandemic. The TSCHE vice-chairman and DOST convener Prof. R. Limbadri said that registrations were being postponed for the degree courses and the next date of admissions will be informed in due course. EAMCET Earlier, the government postponed all the entrance exams and it was expected that the DOST admissions will also be stalled as there is a direct link between the entrance tests and the degree admissions. DOST admissions are held online and they may resume once the dates of the EAMCET are finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/degree-admissions-postponed/article31967365.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man accused of murdering sisters, wife ‘hangs’ self||The 25-year-old man accused of killing two of his sisters was found hanging at his house in Salala area on Wednesday. Ahmed bin Salam Baismail on Monday had allegedly hacked to death Zakira Begum (45) and Raziya Begum (35) over a property dispute. He then allegedly went to the resident of his third sister Noor Begum and attacked her and her husband Omer Ba Hasan. Chandrayagutta police confirmed that the accused had hanged himself. He had allegedly killed his wife last January and was out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-accused-of-murdering-sisters-wife-hangs-self/article31967352.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Put in place food, financial security measures: CPI||The CPI state unit has asked the government to put in place food and financial security measures for people before announcing the next phase of lockdown in the State. CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy said amid reports that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is actively considering imposition of lockdown due to rise in cases of Coronavirus (Covid-19), concerns are being expressed among the working class about their food and financial security. Announce package The government should therefore announce a package before imposing lockdown, he said. He said the government should consider imposition of partial lockdown rather than enforcing shutdown totally. Steps should be taken to provide relaxations in green zones while there should be stricter enforcement of guidelines in the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/put-in-place-food-financial-security-measures-cpi/article31967362.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Markfed clears dues to ryots||Telangana State Cooperative Marketing Federation (TS-Markfed) completed payment of proceeds in lieu of maize, bengalgram, sunflower and jowar purchased from farmers at minimum support price under the price support scheme during the recently-concluded Yasangi season by clearing Rs. 210.49 crore. Minister S. Niranjan Reddy stated on Tuesday that the amount was credited to the bank accounts of the farmers concerned. The dues cleared included Rs. 198.23 crore for maize, Rs. 5.69 crore for jowar, Rs. 4.09 crore for bengalgram and Rs. 2.48 crore for sunflower. He explained that the amount was credited to the farmers’ accounts following release of Rs. 1,000 crore to the Markfed by Canara Bank as part of the borrowings guaranteed by the State government for procuring agricultural produce. He stated that for the first time in the State, nearly 9.43 lakh tonnes (9,42,944) of maize had been purchased from farmers at the MSP of Rs. 1,760 per quintal. Besides, the Markfed had purchased 35,934 tonnes of bengalgram, 18,487 tonnes of jowar and 4,493 tonnes of sunflower during the Yasangi procurement season, in spite of the lockdown. As the government had given guarantee to borrow Rs. 3,213 crore already by Markfed, payment to farmers against purchase of their produce was also completed, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/markfed-clears-dues-to-ryots/article31967371.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cyient’s CSR activities on one platform||Engineering and technology solutions company Cyient on Wednesday said all sustainability and CSR initiatives of the company are being brought under one umbrella to build synergies, optimise resources and maximise impact of the outreach programmes. Announcing the launch of ‘Empowering Tomorrow Together’ initiative, a release from the company said this will cover activities under four focus areas – education, digital literacy, social innovation, and community development. During 2019-20, the company spent over Rs. 8 crore on its CSR programmes exceeding the minimum 2% spend as mandated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyients-csr-activities-on-one-platform/article31967378.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GMM Pfaudler to buy De Dietrich unit||Process equipment supplier to pharmaceutical and chemical industries GMM Pfaudler (GMMP) is acquiring glass-lined equipment manufacturing facility of De Dietrich Process Systems India (DDPSI) here for €6.25 million. “This acquisition will give us access to ready-made glass-lined equipment manufacturing capacity which will further strengthen our presence in the region,” said Tarak Patel, MD, GMMP, in a statement on Wednesday. A stock exchange filing said the acquisition was expected to result in growth for GMMP through immediate market share improvement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gmm-pfaudler-to-buy-de-dietrich-unit/article31967376.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Implead private hospitals, HC tells petitioner||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed a person who filed a PIL petition alleging that private hospitals were charging exorbitant amounts from COVID-19 patients to implead such hospitals. The petition was filed by D.G. Narasimha Rao seeking a direction to State government to ensure private and teaching hospitals stop exploitation of virus patients. As the petitioner cited media reports on private hospitals charging huge sums from COVID-19 patients, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan said the petition was vague as it did not mention names of private hospitals indulging in ‘rampant profiteering’. The matter was posted to July 10 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/implead-private-hospitals-hc-tells-petitioner/article31967334.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Demolition drive on||GHMC continued with the demolition of illegal structures on Gurukul Trust land at Ayyappa Society of Madhapur for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. Five buildings and five basements under construction have been pulled down on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demolition-drive-on/article31967351.ece
02 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teen crushed to death||A polytechnic student was crushed to death when a lorry hit a two-wheeler at Miyapur crossroads around 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday. According to Miyapur police, the girl’s mother Mandula Rekha said that she was riding the bike along with her daughter and son from Balanagar to Miyapur, when a lorry hit them. All three were thrown off and her daughter Mandula Lasya Priya came under the wheels. She was taken to a hospital where she breathed her last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teen-crushed-to-death/article31967358.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD/NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Many flee Hyderabad on lockdown fears||With clarity still eluding on re-imposition of lockdown in Hyderabad due to steep hike in coronavirus cases, people of other places settled in the city did not obviously want to risk remaining here and set out for home. The railway and bus stations had more than normal rush of passengers in the last two days in the wake of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s observation at an official meeting on Sunday that the government would weigh options to impose lockdown in Hyderabad for 15 days. Vehicles also filed on highways, particularly Vijayawada highway. On the other hand, there was no word yet from the Chief Minister’s office on the Cabinet meeting that Mr. Rao contemplated, if needed, to decide on lockdown. Mr. Rao had said the government would wait and watch for two or three more days and hold the Cabinet meeting immediately thereafter. Sources said the government was studying the pulse of the public on lockdown and its repercussions on the economy. Nalgonda reporter writes: Vehicular traffic on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in Nalgonda and Suryapet limits increased from Tuesday night, as news of an impending lockdown in Hyderabad spread. Residents and workers hailing from parts of Andhra Pradesh were in thousands, in luggage-packed carriers and private vehicles on the highway. Traffic outside Telangana limits near Ramapuram X roads at Kodad at the inter-State border was consistent, as the police ensured strict check, importantly, compulsory enrolment on the State's Spandana application. Meanwhile, the A.P. police stopped entry of returnees into the State between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m., following instructions of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-flee-hyderabad-on-lockdown-fears/article31967380.ece
02 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Spice of an idea takes root||Two young science post-graduates of Ramkya Thanda near here swiftly translated an idea that sprouted in their minds in these turbulent times of coronavirus pandemic to grow ginger on an experimental basis in their agricultural land, albeit with a long-term perspective. Gugulothu Srinivas Rao and D Nageswara Rao, both well-qualified tribal youths holding M.Sc and other higher educational qualifications, embarked on cultivation of ginger in one acre land each in their village in Raghunadhapalem mandal early this month. Srinivas Rao, who had earlier worked as a lecturer in a private college, switched over to agriculture to supplement his family income in these difficult times. Nageswara Rao has ventured into farming while preparing for nationwide competitive exams to get into government service. Their enterprising venture into ginger cultivation assumed significance at a time when there is growing health consciousness and awareness about the traditional spices like ginger known for their culinary uses and medicinal properties in boosting immunity and fighting common cold and cough. “The successful cultivation of ginger by a farmer of Danthalapalli in the old undivided Warangal district inspired me to take up cultivation of ginger in my farm land on an experimental basis,” says Mr. Srinivas Rao. “I have purchased ginger seeds from Zaheerabad in Sangareddy district in the first week of this month and sowed the seeds on one acre land after consulting Horticulture Officer, Khammam, G Sandeep Kumar. My friend Nageswara Rao too followed suit,” he said, adding that they had set up a drip irrigation system and had drawn up plans to raise papaya in the alternate rows to make the farming enterprise viable and productive. The red loamy soil in parts of the district is considered suitable for growing ginger, which is in high demand in the market, remarks Mr. Sandeep. The Horticulture Department is encouraging farmers to take up ginger cultivation in line with the State government’s policy to promote crop diversification to ensure cultivation of crops having demand in the market. Several progressive farmers had taken up cultivation of ginger in about 40 acres in the current crop season in Konijerla, Raghunadhapalem, and a few other mandals in the district. This is the first time that farmers had taken up commercial cultivation of ginger in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spice-of-an-idea-takes-root/article31967370.ece
02 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||PDSU activists stage dharna||Activists of the PDSU staged a demonstration here on Wednesday in protest against the alleged tactics by some errant private educational institutions to exploit the prevailing coronavirus pandemic situation to “mint money” in the name of online classes. Flashing placards with slogans, a group of PDSU activists demonstrated in front of the Collectorate demanding stern action against errant corporate schools and colleges. PDSU district general secretary Venkatesh hit out at some colleges. Tapping the services of Doordarshan was mooted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pdsu-activists-stage-dharna/article31967387.ece
02 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||CPI(M) leaders protest in Panagal reservoir||Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday entered the water of the Panagal reservoir with flags and banners, in protest against the government for delayed works of the Srisailam Left Bank Canal tunnel project. Standing knee-deep in the water , and later rowing a boat with the red flag, they demanded that the government release funds for the project immediately. Leaders of the CPI(M), in renewed attempts, have been demanding funds for completion of the project. The district team was at the project site in the last week of June, knelt outside the tunnel 1 outlet and marked their protest. Following that, former legislator and party’s State leader Julakanti Ranga Reddy also wrote to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, outlining the pending issue and demanded funds for co mpletion of the Srisailam Left Bank Canal tunnel project. “About 10.5 km of the tunnel works have been stopped for lack of funds. And at least Rs. 2,000 crore was required for project completion,” he said in the letter. The leaders said projects in south Telangana were neglected, with no action plan and supervision by Ministers. And in the case of the tunnel project, only Rs. 6 crore was released in the past two budgets, while the need was nearly Rs. 2,000 crore, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-leaders-protest-in-panagal-reservoir/article31967385.ece
02 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Services of medical personnel recognised’||If the COVID-19 pandemic brought any good thing, it would be the recognition of services of the medical personnel, doctors of the Indian Medical Association, Nalgonda branch, said on Wednesday. “It brought more recognition and better understanding of how medical personnel deliver services. Such recognition is a welcome thing, both in the society and in the governments,” IMA State council member Jayaprakash Reddy said. The IMA will honour doctors and health workers for their work during the crisis, he said. District president Ch. Pulla Rao remembered Dr. B.C. Roy, on whose birth and death anniversary, the Doctors’ Day is celebrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/services-of-medical-personnel-recognised/article31967367.ece
02 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Quality lapses resulted in breach of canal’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday alleged that lack of quality in construction resulted in the breach of the Kondapochammasagar canal. Accompanied by TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and others, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that there was no breach of canals at Nagarjunasagar which was mud structure whereas the canal constructed with cement was breached and wondered who should be held responsible for that. “We have to take the issue seriously. Engineer-in-Chief Hari Ram must be suspended from service immediately. His comment that this was common was not right. Whose money is this? Who will pay the cost? Why did Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao confine to farm house when there was breach of canal?” asked Mr Uttam Kumar Reddy adding that even Collector had not visited the spot. He said the Collector had not even lifted his phone and he was acting as Telangana Rashtra Samithi activist. Mr. Jeevan Reddy alleged that the Rs. 30,000 -rore project cost was escalated to more than Rs. 1 lakh crore. Mr Prabhakar demanded that the Union government order an inquiry into the quality of works in irrigation. The Congress leaders also interacted with farmers who lost their crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quality-lapses-resulted-in-breach-of-canal/article31967386.ece
02 July 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Woman found dead in Suryapet tank||A woman in her mid-20s, who went missing two days ago, was found dead in the town’s, Saddala Cheruvu, on Wednesday. Police identified the woman as P. Padma, a resident of Anjanapuri Colony in the town. According to the woman’s family members, her death is being portrayed as suicide by her in-laws. “She was harassed for more dowry and tortured every day. Yugandhar Reddy, the husband, along with his mother killed her,” the victim’s brother Gopi Reddy alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead-in-suryapet-tank/article31967368.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Lost in a melee||A moodboard, if there was one, while working on the story and screenplay of 47 Days (now streaming on Zee5) might have been a busy one, with many subplots that needed to be cohesively woven together. A drug racket, a Romeo-Juliet school play and one-sided romance, a husband trying to understand what shattered his happy family, suspicious suicides, the frustration that builds up within the police force... There’s a lot going on in the film that is written and directed by Pradeep Maddali, but it ends up as a hotchpotch. The only reason to watch it till the end is its leading man Satyadev, whose empathetic performance goes in vain. Assistant Commissioner of Police Satyadev (Satyadev Kancharana) is on suspension after a mission goes wrong, and he’s also brooding over the loss of his wife Paddu (Roshini Prakash). He hallucinates and imagines her presence, unable to come to terms with her loss. On Day 1, as the story begins, a body of a young corporate head honcho washes up on the Vizag shore, and the cops close it as a case of suicide. Things take a turn when Satya suspects something connecting this supposed suicide and that of his wife. He begins chasing the smallest of clues and is pulled into a web of mysterious happenings. \\Come to think of it, the premise would have made for a reasonably engaging film. But as different aspects of the mystery unfold, it feels like random ideas were put together. In a better thriller, the progression of days would have built up momentum and kept us at the edge of the seat. In this film, the cards announcing Day 40 or 42 generate little interest. The supporting actors grapple with poorly written parts and go through the dialogues and expressions just because they have to. The curious and suspicious looks from some of them are a giveaway of something sinister. We don’t know the brief given to them. But had some of these characters behaved normal, it might have added to the conceit till the final reveal. The final twist makes a point about a section of the workforce bearing the brunt of disdain, of being scoffed at by the powers to be. But the episode doesn’t have its desired impact. The actor who plays this part goes overboard, and by then we’ve sat through a number of listless incidents in the film to be bothered. The segment of ‘the mystery girl’ brings with it some more sub-plots — sexual harassment, childhood romance, a live-in relationship that goes sour… 47 Days bites off more than it can chew. Raghu Kunche’s music works in a couple of songs. The title invokes memories of K Balachander’s 47 Rojulu starring Chiranjeevi and Jayaprada, but sadly, there’s nothing much to root for in this film.  (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lost-in-a-melee/article31967345.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra proposes Marathi college near Karnataka border||The Maharashtra government has formed a committee to set up a special college in Kolhapur district, near the Karnataka border, that will provide higher education to students who choose Marathi in school instead of Kannada. The move comes two days after all departments and local authorities were directed to compulsorily use Marathi for conducting official business. The initiative of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was taken by the Higher and Technical Education Department handled by the Shiv Sena, which has always been aggressive regarding the rights of the Marathi population in the border area. The border area of Belagavi, Karwar and Nipani has been a five-decade-old dispute between the two States, which is currently being debated in the Supreme Court. Maharashtra always claims the region, citing that a majority of its population speak Marathi. The committee was set up on June 30 to explore the possibility whether a sub-centre of Shivaji University or a special Marathi college be established in Chandgad or Gadhinglaj tehsil of Kolhapur district. Deepak Pawar, a member of the committee, said it has been found that the Marathi speaking population from the border area face discrimination, especially students who choose to study in the Marathi medium in Karnataka. “There are complaints that they are denied higher education courses for not choosing Kannada as their first language in school. Therefore, the Maharashtra government has decided to step in to help them,” he said. As per the idea, the college near the Karnataka border will offer higher education courses to students who have selected Marathi as their first language in school, though their residences are in Karnataka. The committee will soon hold its first meeting. Ever since Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray took over the State’s reigns, he has tasked senior ministers Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Shinde to oversee the government’s efforts to expedite the case in the apex court. Mr. Thackeray has, time and again, spoken in favour of the Marathi population from the area near the Karnataka border, who have been occasionally staging protests against the alleged imposition of Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-proposes-marathi-college-near-karnataka-border/article31967297.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Need to follow due process to declare sanitary napkins as essential item’||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has told the Bombay High Court that the decision to include sanitary napkins under essential commodities may be taken after understanding the current market scenario, and the demand supply gap. It said the decision should also take into consideration the options of brands, quality, specification, costing and preferences available to the beneficiaries. An affidavit stating this was filed on June 29 in response to a public interest litigation filed by a law student Nikita Gore and law research associate Vaishnavi Gholave, through advocate Vinod Sangvikar. They have sought implementation of “the Menstrual Hygiene Management National Guidelines, 2015” and to recognise sanitary napkins as an essential commodity, and to add it in the schedule of the Essential Commodity Act, 1955. The PIL states that since imposition of lockdown there is a complete negligence in providing sanitation facilities for menstruating women. The affidavit was filed by Dilip Kumar Sahu, under secretary, MoHFW, said, “ The decision should be taken after due consultative process under the Ministry of Consumer Affairs ensuring involvement of all stakeholders and that there is no adverse effect on the beneficiaries and at the same time it fulfils the intent of the petition.” The 64-page affidavit said, “The Ministry has been supporting the implementation of the Scheme for Promotion of Menstrual Hygiene among adolescent girls in the age group of 10-19 years as part of the Reproductive Child Health since 2011. Since 2015-16, the procurement of sanitary napkins is being supported by National Health Mission through State Programme Implementation Plan based on the proposals received from the States. The States and Union Territories have decentralised procurement of sanitary napkins through a competitive bidding process ensuring quality standards. A total of more than Rs. 128 crore has been approved to 20 States/ Union Territories for the scheme in the last 2 years. Maharashtra government has received approvals for the implementation of the scheme under the Mission.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/need-to-follow-due-process-to-declare-sanitary-napkins-as-essential-item/article31967292.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||Lalbaugcha Raja mandal cancels Ganesh Chaturthi fête||The Lalbaugcha Raja Ganesh Mandal, which installs Mumbai’s most famous Ganpati idol, on Wednesday announced cancellation of the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic .  The mandal will not install the Ganesh idol this year, Lalbaugcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal’s secretary Sudhir Salvi told reporters. It will organise blood and plasma donation camps and provide financial assistance to the families of policemen who died of COVID-19, he said. The 10-day festival begins on ‘Ganesh Chaturthi’, which falls on August 22. The Lalbaugcha Raja Mandal has been installing the Ganpati idol at its pandal in Central Mumbai since 1934. “We have decided not to install the Ganesh idol this year and instead, celebrate the festival by organising blood donation and plasma donation camps. We are giving Rs. 25 lakh to the Chief Minister’s relief fund,” Mr. Salvi said. “We will provide financial assistance to the families of policemen who have succumbed to coronavirus. We will also honour the families of 20 soldiers who were martyred during clashes with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh,” he said. Popular festival Ganeshotsav is the most popular festival in Maharashtra. The pandals set up by various mandals in Mumbai and other places in the State attract thousands of devotees during the 10-day festivities. The GSB Ganeshotsav Samiti in Wadala has already postponed the celebration to ‘Magh Shudh Chaturthi’ in February next year, a samiti official earlier said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray last month called for a simple and low-key Ganpati festival celebration this year, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, and asked Ganesh mandals to undertake social welfare programmes. He said the threat of coronavirus is not yet over and therefore, it will not be possible to celebrate the Ganesh festival with the usual pomp and gaiety. He also said Ganesh mandals should not install idols with a height of more than four feet during the festival. After announcing the cancellation of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Mumbai’s iconic Lalbaug Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal said it will organise plasma therapy and blood donation camps for 11 days in the city. ( With inputs from Alok Deshpande )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lalbaugcha-raja-mandal-cancels-ganesh-chaturthi-fte/article31967294.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||Rights activist celebrate 33rd birthday in prison||On his 33rd birthday, Mahesh Raut, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence, on Wednesday, spoke to his sister and mother in Gadchiroli from Taloja central jail where he is lodged. Mr. Raut, the youngest accused in the case who was arrested from Nagpur on June 6, 2018, on charges of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, managed to speak with them for barely two minutes. His sister Monali, who lives in Mumbai, said this is his third birthday away from the family. Ms. Monali told The Hindu that Mahesh called their mother as well as elder sister Sonali, who live with the extended family in Wadsa tehsil, on Wednesday afternoon.Ms. Sonali said the entire family was keen to talk to him, but the call from the jail automatically got disconnected after two minutes. Talking about the situation inside jail, Ms. Sonali said her brother never talks about any difficulty he faces inside because he doesn’t want the family to worry. Ms. Monali said she was able to meet her brother before the lockdown on March 14 to give him medicines for his ulcerative colitis for two months. And now that postal services have started, she was able to send him a letter and medicines. Mr. Raut is an Adivasi rights activist at Gadchiroli and a student of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. He has worked as a Prime Minister Rural Development Fellow in Gadchiroli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rights-activist-celebrates-33rd-birthday-in-prison/article31967291.ece
02 July 2020||Mumbai,||PIL seeks stay on electricity bill payment||A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in the Bombay High Court on Wednesday, seeking a stay on the payment of electricity bill of June. The PIL, filed by a businessman Ravindra Desai (49), sought a direction from the court to power companies like Adani Power and Tata Power, along with the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited and the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission to reduce the electricity bill of June and to formulate a strategy to avoid excess electricity bill in future, in light of the lockdown. The PIL also sought waiving of late payment charges of the electricity bill of June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pil-seeks-stay-on-electricity-bill-payment/article31967296.ece
02 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Cyclone-affected farmers in Raigad unhappy over per-hectare compensation||Even as the 1,976 villages in Raigad affected in Cyclone Nisarga on June 3 are returning to normalcy, farmers and local leaders have expressed concern over the compensation being provided against per hectare damage. The compensation paid per hectare is around Rs. 50,000, while the actual damage is to the crops and not the land, Raigad zilla parishad opposition leader Surendra Mhatre said. “Most of the land is owned in partnership and in that case, the money, when distributed, becomes paltry for each party. Besides, crops like coconut and supari have suffered the maximum damage. We have brought these issues to the notice of the Collector,” he said. Collector and District Magistrate Nidhi Choudhari told The Hindu that she had forwarded suggestions of farmers and local leaders to the State government. She said the tehsil offices had been facing a lot of problems while disbursing the relief. “Most of the land tracts are owned in partnership and in some cases, people from four generations have the right to the land. Some owners are outside the city and hence, we have asked for a no objection certificate from them. The process is going on,” Ms. Choudhari said. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Praveen Darekar, during his trip to Konkan region, had visited Raigad on Tuesday. After a meeting with the Collector, Mr. Darekar appreciated the work and initiatives of Ms. Choudhary, but blamed some for corruption. “Some people who have not faced any damage have received the relief, which is wrong. Some political party workers are considering the State’s funds as their own. We are also going to take up the issue of providing relief as per the crop damage with the State government. There is still more work to be done in Raigad and on my next visit, if the work has not finished, we will stage a protest,” Mr. Darekar said. Reacting to the allegation, Ms. Choudhari said, “If there is a name of a person attached to the allegation, we can look into it. No such name has been brought to my notice.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cyclone-affected-farmers-in-raigad-unhappy-over-per-hectare-compensation/article31967295.ece
02 July 2020||Pune,||Cong. has right to question Centre: Chavan||While acknowledging that politics should not be played over the India-China border row, former Chief Minister and senior Congressman Prithviraj Chavan said the opposition Congress had the right to question the Centre, and to expect a response, from the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government. Whilst not naming him, Mr. Chavan’s remarks were clearly a pointed response to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s veiled criticism of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had ticked off Mr. Modi over the Galwan face-off. “The Congress is not bothering the government with domestic questions. It is the responsibility and the right of the Opposition to question the Centre on its policy. This way, a consensus can be built to deal with the crisis in a true democratic spirit,” Mr. Chavan said, speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday. Soon after the Galwan Valley face-off with China in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Mr. Gandhi had castigated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for having allegedly surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. When asked about what he thought of Mr. Gandhi’s jibes at the government, Mr. Pawar had said, “We can’t forget what had happened in 1962 [When the Congress under Jawaharlal Nehru was in power] when China occupied 45,000 square kilometres of India’s territory. While making these allegations, one should also look at what had happened in the past. This is an issue of national interest and one should not bring in politics.” Mr. Pawar’s statement triggered unease amongst the Congress, which is in alliance with the NCP and the Shiv Sena in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. In response, Mr. Chavan said that “historical references to the past” was no help in solving problems of the present. “The Congress is questioning the government as it represents the people’s voice… It is pointless to delve into controversies to resolve the current crisis,” he said. Mr. Chavan also criticised the Centre for the rising fuel prices across the country at a time when global oil prices were low. “It appears that the Modi government is making up for doling out its COVID-19 relief package of Rs. 20 lakh crore with this exorbitant fuel price hike. In May 2014, the price of oil was 107 dollars a barrel and the fuel procurement cost was Rs. 9.2 per barrel. Today, at a time when the cost per barrel has come down to 66 dollars, the fuel procurement prices have surged by 350% to Rs. 32.98 per barrel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-has-right-to-question-centre-chavan/article31967299.ece
02 July 2020||Pune,||CM performs annual puja at Vitthal temple||Keeping up a time-honoured tradition despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday performed the annual puja (worship) at the Vitthal-Rukmini temple in Pandharpur in Solapur district, on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi.’ Mr. Thackeray, who along with his wife Rashmi and son, Sena MLA and Minister Aaditya Thackeray, reached the temple town with a select retinue late on Tuesday, performed the puja early on Wednesday. He said he prayed for a miracle to end the scourge of COVID-19 in the State and across the globe.“I have come here to pray not just on behalf of the people of Maharashtra, but on behalf of all people living everywhere… There is a tradition of belief in miracles wrought by Lord Vitthala. We now want to see a miracle as human beings are tired combating the coronavirus menace and there is no medicine in sight. How long can we go on living our lives by covering our mouths,” said the CM, addressingsome warkaris (devotees) after the puja . Mr. Thackeray, who performed the puja wearing a mask, said he earnestly hoped for things to improve right away in the struggle against COVID-19, on the auspicious occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’. With the alarming rise in new cases and fatalities in Pune, Satara and Solapur districts, the government and the district authorities had scrapped the annual palkhi procession this year in which lakhs of warkaris undertake the wari (pilgrimage) on foot from Dehu and Alandi (in Pune district) to the Vitthal-Rukmini temple. However, to keep up this 800-year-old tradition, the padukas (footprints) of the Saints Tukaram and Dnyaneshwar from Dehu and Alandi, respectively, were transported by road on Tuesday. They were carried in eight special State Transport buses, with 15-20 warkaris in each bus. With eight active positive cases reported from Pandharpur, the temple town saw a muted ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’ celebration for the first time in decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-performs-annual-puja-at-vitthal-temple/article31967301.ece
02 July 2020||COLOMBO,||‘Ensure democratic space is open’||Sri Lanka must ensure that the democratic space in the country remains open and accountable, the ‘Core Group’ on Sri Lanka has said, observing that the “extraordinary measures to tackle the pandemic should not be used to roll back human rights”. Addressing the ongoing 44th session of the UN Human Rights Council on Tuesday, Rita French, the U.K.’s International Ambassador for Human Rights voiced concern over “the targeting and marginalisation” of minority groups in Sri Lanka, the pardoning of Sergeant Sunil Ratnayake — a soldier on death row for killing eight Tamils — the promotion of “others accused of serious violations” during the conflict, and the “militarisation of a wide range of civilian functions”. She was speaking on behalf of Canada, Germany, North Macedonia, Montenegro and the U.K., or the ‘Core Group on Sri Lanka’, backing the UN resolution titled ‘Promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights’. Sri Lanka — under the former President Maithripala Sirisena-Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe administration — co-sponsored the 2015 resolution, showing intent to confront difficult questions lingering since the brutal civil war between the armed forces and the separatist LTTE ended in 2009. However, the successor government under President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced in February this year that Sri Lanka would withdraw from co-sponsoring the resolution, evoking “profound disappointment” among the ‘Core Group’. Domestic processes Citing Sri Lanka’s “commitment to advancing these principles through domestic processes”, the member countries emphasised that “any accountability mechanism must have the confidence of those affected”. While Sri Lanka had kept COVID-19 case numbers “significantly lower than the regional average”, Ms. French in her statement urged the island nation to “follow due process” and comply with “international norms and universal rights”, in detentions and arrests. Sri Lanka has so far reported 2,050 coronavirus cases, 1,748 recoveries and 11 deaths. Meanwhile, Michelle Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, told the Council that “In Sri Lanka and India, members of the Muslim minority are being targeted by stigma and hate speech associating them with COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ensure-democratic-space-is-open/article31966959.ece
02 July 2020||JERUSALEM,||West Bank annexation plan set to get delayed: Minister||A confidant of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed that the Israeli leader’s plan to annex parts of the occupied West Bank would not start on Wednesday, the original target date, as the British Prime Minister made an extraordinary appeal to Israel to call off the plan. The developments cast further uncertainty over whether Israel will ultimately follow through on the explosive annexation initiative, which has drawn fierce international condemnations from some of Israel’s closest allies. Speaking on Israel’s Army Radio station, Cabinet Minister Ofir Akunis confirmed that the annexation process would not begin on Wednesday, saying that officials were still working out the final details with their American counterparts. He said he expected the annexation to take place later in July. “Coordination with the American administration is not something that can be dismissed,” he said. Mr. Netanyahu had said that he wants to begin annexing West Bank territory in line with President Donald Trump’s Mideast plan. The Prime Minister’s Office issued a statement saying Mr. Netanyahu held discussions on Wednesday with American diplomats and Israeli defence officials on the issue of annexation, and that “additional discussions will be be held in the coming days.” The plan, unveiled in January, envisions bringing some 30% of the territory under permanent Israeli control, while giving the Palestinians limited autonomy in carved-up pockets of the remaining land. But the plan has come under stiff criticism. The United Nations, the European Union and key Arab countries have all said Israel’s annexation would violate international law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/west-bank-annexation-plan-set-to-get-delayed-minister/article31966961.ece
02 July 2020||Moscow,||Russians set to back reforms||Russians are set to approve constitutional reforms on Wednesday denounced by critics as a manoeuvre to allow President Vladimir Putin to stay in the Kremlin for life. The changes were passed weeks ago by Russia’s Parliament and copies of the new constitution are already on sale in bookshops, but Putin says a nationwide vote ending Wednesday is essential to give them legitimacy. The reforms include conservative and populist measures — like guaranteed minimum pensions and an effective ban on gay marriage — but crucially for Mr. Putin will also reset presidential term limits allowing him to potentially remain in power until 2036. The Kremlin pulled out all the stops to encourage turnout, with polls extended over nearly a week, the last day of voting declared a national holiday and prizes — including apartments and cars — on offer to voters. Initially planned for April 22, the referendum was postponed by the COVID-19 pandemic but rescheduled after Mr. Putin said the epidemic had peaked and officials began reporting lower numbers of new cases. There is little doubt the reforms will be approved, with a state-run exit poll of more than 1,63,000 voters this week showing 76% in favour. Russia’s election commission said early on Wednesday that after six days of voting turnout was at more than 55%. Results were expected after the last polling stations closed at 1800 GMT. Mr. Putin said the changes are needed to ensure stability and cement Russian values in the face of pernicious Western influences. Critics say the reforms are a cover for Mr. Putin to extend his rule after 20 years in power as either President or PM. Chief opposition campaigner Alexei Navalny said Putin, 67, wants to make himself “president for life” and has called for a boycott. But the opposition has failed to mount a serious “no” campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russians-set-to-back-reforms/article31966963.ece
02 July 2020||WASHINGTON,||Russia bounty allegations are fake news, says Trump||President Donald Trump on Wednesday dismissed as “Fake News” allegations that Russia offered bounties for killing American troops in Afghanistan. He said news stories about the allegations were made up to “damage me and Republican Party.” Lawmakers have been demanding answers over the allegations, and Democrats have accused Mr. Trump of bowing to Russian President Vladimir Putin at the risk of U.S. soldiers’ lives. Mr. Trump tweeted on Wednesday that he had not been briefed on intelligence assessments that Russia offered bounties because there wasn’t corroborating evidence. Those intelligence assessments were first reported by The New York Times , then confirmed to by American intelligence officials and others with knowledge of the matter. “The Russia Bounty story is just another made up by Fake News tale that is told only to damage me and the Republican Party,” Trump tweeted. “The secret source probably does not even exist, just like the story itself.” The President’s National Security Adviser, Robert O’Brien, said the intelligence wasn’t brought to the President’s attention initially because it was unverified and there was no consensus among the intelligence community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-bounty-allegations-are-fake-news-says-trump/article31966964.ece
02 July 2020||Berlin,||Merkel urges EU to prepare for possibility of a no-deal Brexit||The European Union must prepare for the possibility that talks for a deal with Britain over their future relationship could fail, Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Wednesday. “I will keep pushing for a good solution, but the EU and Germany too must and should prepare for the case that an agreement is not reached,” Ms. Merkel told the Bundestag as Europe’s biggest economy takes over the presidency of the 27-member bloc. Britain officially completed its delayed departure from the European integration project on January 31. London and Brussels now have until the end of December to strike a brand new agreement or end their half-century relationship without specific plans for how they intend to trade or coexist in other fields. Without a new agreement, they would see ties reduced to minimum standards set by the World Trade Organization with high tariffs and serious disruptions to business. After several months of disruption by the pandemic, the EU and Britain on Monday launched five weeks of negotiation on a deal to define their post-Brexit relations, with London keen to wrap things up quickly. With both sides still entrenched in their positions, Prime Minister Boris Johnson had insisted on Saturday that Britain was ready to accept the consequences of no deal if common ground cannot be found. Ms. Merkel had also sharpened her tone, questioning in an interview if London really wanted a deal. A deal would have to be done by the autumn to give national Parliaments as well as the EU Parliament enough time to ratify the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/merkel-urges-eu-to-prepare-for-possibility-of-a-no-deal-brexit/article31966956.ece
02 July 2020||Beijing,||China imposes sanctions on 4 U.S. media outlets||China on Wednesday ordered four U.S. news outlets to disclose details of their staff and financial operations in the country within seven days, as a media row escalates between Washington and Beijing. The Associated Press, United Press International, CBS and NPR must report the information — as well as details of any real estate they hold in China — in retaliation for Washington’s crackdown on four Chinese state media outlets, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said. China’s actions are “entirely necessary countermeasures against the United States’ unreasonable oppression of Chinese media organisations in the U.S.”, Mr. Zhao said at a regular press briefing. The U.S. State Department on June 22 reclassified four Chinese state media outlets as foreign missions in the U.S., adding to five others designated in February. All nine outlets “are effectively controlled by the government of the People’s Republic of China”, State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in June. After the first group of outlets were ordered to cut their Chinese staff working in the U.S., Beijing hit back by expelling more than a dozen U.S. nationals working for The New York Times , The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-imposes-sanctions-on-4-us-media-outlets/article31966954.ece
02 July 2020||Washington,||U.S. could hit 1,00,000 virus cases a day: Fauci||A top U.S. health expert warned Congress on Tuesday that the COVID-19 cases could more than double to 1,00,000 per day if authorities and the public fail to take steps to suppress the pandemic. Infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci, a leading member of President Donald Trump’s coronavirus task force, said the United States was headed in the “wrong direction” on the pandemic and demanded that Americans wear masks and avoid crowds after lax behaviour propelled new outbreaks. “I’m very concerned and I’m not satisfied with what’s going on, because we’re going in the wrong direction,” he testified to a Senate panel. Alarming spikes in new cases in southern hotspots Texas and Florida are driving the national total of new cases to over 40,000 per day, and they need to be tamped down to avoid dangerous surges elsewhere in the country, Fauci stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-could-hit-100000-virus-cases-a-day-fauci/article31966966.ece
02 July 2020||Rome,||Italy seizes IS-made drugs worth €1 bn||Italian police said on Wednesday they had seized a 14-tonne haul of amphetamines made by the Islamic State group in Syria, calling it the biggest seizure of such drugs in the world. The drug, in the form of around 84 million Captagon tablets hidden inside industrial goods within containers, was worth about €1 billion, and intended to be sold on the European market “to finance terrorism,” the finance police of Naples said in a statement. “We know that the Islamic State finances its terrorist activities mainly by trafficking drugs made in Syria which in the past few years has become the world’s largest producer of amphetamines,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/italy-seizes-is-made-drugs-worth-1-bn/article31966957.ece
02 July 2020||Beijing,||Beijing, July 1, 2020 (AFP) -||China on Wednesday played down the threat of a new swine flu strain with pandemic potential that researchers discovered in pigs, saying the study is “not representative”. The new strain found in China, according to the study published on Monday in the journal PNAS , had “all the essential hallmarks” to infect humans and raised fears over another potential pandemic. But China's Foreign Ministry moved to downplay fears on Wednesday. “The G4 virus mentioned in the relevant report is a subtype of the H1N1 virus,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said. “Experts have concluded that the sample size of the report is small and not representative.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-july-1-2020-afp/article31966953.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Police reform and the crucial judicial actor||Here we go, again. The newest episode of sensational brutality has gripped public imagination. Righteous indignation abounds on social media and the press. Underneath that gloss, grief and agony probably crowd out every other emotion. At my vantage point as someone working in the criminal justice system, the only emotion that the seemingly senseless act of violence inside a police station in Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, evokes, is of extreme weariness. How many more times must powerless citizens suffer the blows of a lathi or a baton, the kicks of patent leather boots, be violated by the “wooden rollers” around their private areas, not to mention spending hours inside a police lockup, all as a part of an “investigation” by police searching for “truth”? Judiciary as beacon This fatal violence by state actors is a cruel reminder of just how little unshackling has happened in the domain of policing to free this essential public sphere from the demons of its heritage and become an active participant in sustaining a democratic polity and not a colony. As always, when the conversation veers in this direction it becomes natural to look towards the judiciary as the source of hope and action, and it is unsurprising to know that the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has taken notice of the Thoothukudi violence on its own and is “closely” monitoring the situation. The Madras High Court acted in the best traditions of constitutional courts in India, which have often passed various directions to try and ameliorate the problem of police violence. So much so that scholars have called the Supreme Court of India as the only institution working towards police reforms in the Indian state. This acclaim largely comes from the top court’s interventions in the 1990s through cases such as Joginder Kumar v. State of UP [AIR 1994 SC 1349] and D.K. Basu v. State of West Bengal [(1997) 1 SCC 416] , where guidelines were passed to try and secure two rights in the context of any state action — a right to life and a right to know. Through the guidelines, the Court sought to curb the power of arrest, as well as ensure that an accused person is made aware of all critical information regarding her arrest and also convey this to friends and family immediately in the event of being taken in custody. It took a decade, and in the form of amendments, as the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2008 to give statutory backing to these judicial guidelines; it remains part of the law today. The Supreme Court went even further, and perhaps too far, in the case, Prakash Singh v. Union of India [(2006) 8 SCC 1] , where it pushed through new legislation for governing police forces to be passed by States across India. A key component of the new legislation was a robust setup for accountability that contemplated a grievance redress mechanism. That it took reportedly 11 years for the State of Tamil Nadu to actually implement Prakash Singh (a law passed in 2013 but only given effect in 2017), and that several States remain in contempt of the Supreme Court’s judgment, give some insights into how seriously the issue of police reform ranks in the scheme of things for governments. Judicial concern with police violence is also witnessed in a different manner — judicial support for “scientific” investigations. The support and fascination for techniques such as narcoanalysis, ensuring video recording of investigations, passing orders for installing closed-circuit television cameras inside police stations, all comes from a place of grudging acceptance by courts about how often police employ physicality to obtain evidence. Through technology, then, the hope is to reduce a need for interacting with the body as a source of evidence, and to gradually delegitimise and dismantle a set of archaic practices reliant upon the use of force as a means to extract the “truth”. Systemic failures Constitutional courts have seemingly tried to change our reality of police brutality for well over two decades. Yet, we are still here, with some reports (of course, not by the state) suggesting that across India there are as many as five custodial deaths a day. While this is undoubtedly a product of continued institutional apathy towards the issue of police reform, I would argue that it is also clear enough evidence that the judiciary’s approach of simply passing directions and guidelines, has proven to be a failure, and that it is the ordinary magistrate, and not the constitutional court, who is the judicial actor wielding real power to realise substantial change in police practices. There is a reason why the judiciary is commonly called the weakest branch: All the noble intentions in the world cannot help transform the mere words of a court order into reality. This needs money and a power of immediate implementation, neither of which courts have. In fact, the gap between the highest court and the lowly police officer in India has been demonstrated through studies which show how despite criminal laws being struck down as unconstitutional, they continue to be enforced in various parts of the country by local police. Rather than expend energies in only passing more guidelines, constitutional courts must seriously contend with the concrete cases that come their way and expose how hard it is for a common man to get justice against police violence, either through compensation claims or prosecutions. Culture of impunity At the same time, constitutional courts must shed the institutional baggage which often leads to them protecting the supposedly vulnerable morale of police. This tendency was on display when the Madras High Court reportedly saw the Thoothukudi incident as the result of a “few bad apples” ruining a system’s reputation. That, with due respect, is to be unable to see the wood for the trees — it is the culture of impunity that all the apples experience which leads the few to wield the baton with such fatal vigour. Rather than minimise, perhaps it is time to consider sanctions at a larger scale and impose monetary penalties at the district level, to drive home the message that the erring actions of one officer must be seen as a failure of the force itself. Finally, constitutional courts could strike an inspired move by reorienting their guidelines to try and change the practices of magistrates, over whom they exercise powers of superintendence, as opposed to other non-judicial actors. For it is the local magistrate before whom all arrested and detained persons must be produced within 24 hours, and thus becomes the point of first contact for a citizen with the constitutional rule of law that Indians take so much pride in. The Thoothukudi incident has brought to fore what appears to have been inexcusable lapses by the magistrate. It is tragic that the laxity apparently on display there in remanding accused persons to further custody (both the police and judicial), is not the exception but the norm, in my experience. The overworked magistrate, struggling with an ever-exploding docket, is very often in a rush to get done with the “remand case”, rather than treat an arrested person with the care and the consideration that she deserves and is entitled to. This is not the fault of the magistrate but the crystallisation of a systemic failure which constitutional courts are indirectly responsible for, and could do much to change. Abhinav Sekhri is a lawyer practising in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/police-reform-and-the-crucial-judicial-actor/article31966941.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||How not to tame the digital dragon||Earlier this week, on June 29, a dramatic press release was issued by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) directing a ban on 59 smartphone applications, many of them web services. This includes TikTok, a popular social media platform; the UC Browser, a preferred web browser for low budget smartphones; and CamScanner, which is used to convert images into shareable documents. In one fell swoop, this singular act of web censorship in India has impacted more people than ever before. Beyond the geopolitical and economic impact of this ban, concerning questions arise as to its legality and the measure’s impact on democratic norms. The first concern arises due to the lack of transparency in website blocking. Prior to adverting to the legal provisions that provide for the government to issue such directions for blocking, let us look at the press release. Even prior governments have made press releases such as when, in August 2012, a decision was made to block around 245 webpages to prevent disinformation that purportedly was causing the exodus from Bengaluru of Indians belonging to the north-eastern part of the country. The relevant order mentioned several grounds, such as defence and integrity of India, public order and even security and privacy of users. The directive was premised on specific recommendations by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Committee at the Ministry of Home Affairs, reports received by our premier cybersecurity body, CERT-In, and debates in Parliament. Lack of examination, debate This time, recommendations by the Ministry of Home Affairs appear to have been a pivotal document. The Ministry’s assessment may not have been technically examined or debated on the floor of the house. Hence, the need for disclosure of these recommendations gains primacy. Further, more importantly, the legal order by itself has not yet been published or been made publicly available. Disclosure of this order is necessary because the nature of the action of blocking impacts the right not only of the owners of these smartphone applications, but the public’s fundamental right to receive information. Here, the facts as they stand are that the only publicly available document available at present is the press release which, by itself, is not a substitute for a legal order. Imperative for disclosure The imperative for disclosure becomes clearer on a joint reading of the Shreya Singhal (at Para 109) and Anuradha Bhasin (at Para 152(a)) judgments. The first concerned the constitutionality of Section 66A under which the Supreme Court, while upholding the blocking powers of the government, reasoned that the writ remedies would always be available to an aggrieved person. Hence, to approach a High Court in a writ, the petitioner would require the availability of the legal order. This need for public disclosure prior to placing any restriction on Internet access (of any scope or nature) has been expressly directed when the Supreme Court examined the scope of the telecommunications shutdown in Jammu and Kashmir. Here, citing a solitary rule from the process devised by the government won’t be of much assistance. Second, proceeding to the more substantive aspects of the action, it seems to contain fairly obvious flaws. The first is with respect to the adherence to the prescribed power under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 that permits the blocking of information that falls within specific grounds that need to be invoked when it is “necessary and expedient”. Further, the process for this is required to be created under the second sub-clause for which the government made the Website Blocking Rules, 2009. While the principal power and the rules are far from perfect, larger questions do arise from the press release by MEITY. The first is that the so-called “ban” has been imposed without any form of pre-decisional hearing. Such a process would have required a show-cause notice to be served, offering the aggrieved party a detailed opportunity to defend itself; this would have been followed by a detailed legal order. This process can only be exempted when there exists an emergency; however, there is little in the press release to indicate whether this was indeed an emergency and, if yes, what its specific cause was. No mention of ‘China’ For those who may state that the ban was necessary due to China’s aggression along the border, or specific threats to our cybersecurity, the word, ‘China’ is not even mentioned within it. This becomes more curious because there appears to be a group determination of the 59 applications. Each application is distinct in its operation; many of them come from different companies and developers. Hence, if the basis of the grouping is an economic reprisal against China, the text of the order does not state any such thing. Several other minor defects exist; however it is more important to focus on the larger point about the necessity to maintain legality. The principle of legality is inherent to a republic that is governed by laws and not the whims of powerful individuals in high office. It is the hallmark of a democracy that laws are validly enacted and do not violate fundamental rights. To circumvent them to reach a convenient goal would amount to undermining the constitutional framework of India. Today, there are two concerns which must be legitimately addressed through legislation. The first is connected with privacy and data protection where the Union Government’s record has been poor. A watered down version of a Data Protection Bill is pending before a parliamentary committee and awaits enactment. The second is to commence an exploration into whether investments and operational control pose cybersecurity concerns or intersect with sectors of foundational and emerging technologies. This may be done through legislation and creation of an institutional process that may draw inspiration from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. Both these measures will suitably empower the government to act within the bounds of law and act as per evidence to reach the goals they so desire. This will be without resorting to ad-hoc actions that create a worrying precedent and expansion of state power over the Internet and technology businesses. Forsaking our democratic values is too high a price to pay if the goal is to neuter the designs of an aggressive single-party state. To protect individual liberty and national interests, India must proceed with caution and remember the age-old adage, of being careful of whom we hate, for we may end up just like them. Apar Gupta is a lawyer and executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-not-to-tame-the-digital-dragon/article31966947.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Striking a blow against Assam’s inclusive ethos||The Assam government recently decided to promulgate a law to make the Assamese language compulsory in all schools, both public and private, including the Kendriya Vidyalayas, from Classes I to X. The State Governor has already given a formal assent to the Cabinet’s decision. However, the law will not be applicable in Barak Valley, Bodoland Council and other Sixth Schedule areas, where Bengali, Bodo and other indigenous languages will take precedence. The ‘Assamese nationalists’ are of course happy. Some are even demanding for it to be made compulsory in the exempted areas. However, none of them is talking about what effects it will have on communities such as the Misings, Deoris, Rabhas and the other smaller tribes and their mother tongues. Data and politics Statistical data have often been used as a tool to construct the linguistic hierarchy and homogenisation in a region. This in turn becomes an element crucial for constructing and stabilising the regional political economic hegemonies. We have seen that happen in north India with the census-driven communal split of Hindi-Urdu, presuming Muslims to be Urdu speakers, while Hindus to be Hindi speakers. Crucially, this politics marginalised languages such as Magadhi, Awadhi, Bhojpuri, Garhwali with their rich literary and linguistic traditions as mere dialects of the Hindi language. And this was a political number game to ensure the dominance of Hindi and Hindi-Hindu elites, nationally. A similar approach is also evident in Assam. Census data are often used to portray a ‘danger’ to the Assamese language — the ‘infiltration’ of Bengali-speaking communities is considered to be the primary reason. The number of Assamese speakers as per the 2011 Census comes to 48.38% of the population. In 1971, the percentage of speakers was at 60.89%. So, it seems the number of Assamese speakers considerably declined in these four decades. But this data need to be looked at empirically. It has to be noted that most tribal communities speak Assamese but return their own respective languages as their mother tongues. For example, in the Mising tribe, which I belong to, a large majority speak Assamese. This is not because of school education, but mainly because of the fact that Assamese is the dominant market language, at least in the Brahmaputra Valley. Impact on tribal languages The imposition of Assamese has had adverse effects on tribal languages, especially on those which do not enjoy any constitutional protection. Tribal languages are generally on a steady decline. For instance, while the Mising tribe reported a rate of increase of 41.13% in the number of speakers in the 2001 Census, by 2011 it was merely 14.28%. Similarly, the Deoris which reported a decadal increase of 56.19% in the 2001 Census, the increase percentage by 2011 had declined to 15.79%. It is to be noted that only the Dibongiya clan of the Deoris now speak the language. The Rabhas community provides for a more curious case. The community reported an increase of 18.23% in the number of speakers in the 2001 Census. By 2011, the number of speakers had decreased to -15.04%, almost completely obliterating the language. Other tribes such as the Sonowal-Kacharis and Tiwas have almost completely lost their languages. Tribal communities since long have been demanding linguistic and territorial protection and attention from the State government. On October 30, 1985, the government of Assam, in response to a long struggle by the Mising community, through a gazette notification introduced the Mising Language as an additional subject in Classes 3 and 4 in the Mising-dominated areas. Also, additionally, it was to be the medium of instruction at the primary level. The Assam government was supposed to take up various tasks such as appointing Mising language teachers, translating books into Mising, and also introducing Mising textbooks. But only 230 teachers were appointed till 1994, after which the whole process came to a halt. Further, the agreed upon clause of introducing Mising as the medium of instruction never took off. Tribal communities have always resisted attempts of forced homogenisation. It was in response to the Official Language Bill in 1960  that the Khasi along with other tribal communities started protesting, ultimately leading to the formation of Meghalaya. The Bodo movement for autonomy also finds its roots in this bill. Tribes have often highlighted that the ‘Assamese nationalism’ discourse was narrow and rarely included other communities. However, tribes such as the Misings, Deoris, Rabhas, etc. have still consistently supported the Assamese movement against the imposition of Bengali language or Hindi in Assam. But in turn they now find themselves consistently marginalised, with their linguistic and cultural heritage derecognised by the State and the hegemonic forces. The CAA factor The anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) movement could have been a point of departure in the ‘Assamese Nationalism’ discourse. During the course of the movement, a new definition of ‘Assamese indigenous’ was seen emerging. This definition was inclusive of tribal and other non-Assamese communities and was based on domicile rather than language alone. Demands were raised for protection of indigenous land, culture and languages during the course of the struggle. However, at the core of the movement, was also the fear of infiltration that the CAA bill promoted. Such fear and insecurity have an immanent tendency to straitjacket heterogeneous aspirations and scuttle the inclusive nature of the movement. The government is in fact manipulating this element of fear by raising linguistic nationalism to weaken the inclusive and anti-hegemonic build-up in the anti-CAA movement in Assam. The timing of the government’s decision to bring in a law making Assamese mandatory in schools clearly exposes its intentions. It was first announced in January 2020. As a job requirement Adding to this, the Home Minister of Assam states that the government is also mulling over a separate legislation which will make only those who learned Assamese till their matriculation suitable for government jobs in Assam. These moves are clear indications of a non-inclusive homogenised Assamese nationalism taking precedence over the inclusion of minority linguistic and cultural aspirations. Such a move alienates various linguistic identities such as those of tribes such as the Misings, Deoris and Rabhas, etc. and limits the definition of ‘Axomiya’ to just the speakers of the language. By bringing in such a law, the State government is seeking to overcome the legitimation crisis that its support to CAA had created. While the tribes acknowledge the threat that infiltration poses to local languages and culture, they are also wary of the Assamese hegemony and homogeneity. This law will only increase the marginalisation of these communities, triggering social conflicts once again. It is time for progressive sections in Assam to go beyond the politics of fear and assert the inclusive ethos of Assam. Manoranjan Pegu is a trade union activist based in Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/striking-a-blow-against-assams-inclusive-ethos/article31966943.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Streaming for reading||Last month, Bollywood released the star-studded Gulabo Sitabo on Amazon Prime Video. The movie began streaming with subtitle options in 15 languages. However, the bad news was that the Hindi movie did not have Hindi subtitles. But why should any movie have subtitles in the same language as the audio? If that sounds absurd, consider why English movies on all streaming platforms come with English subtitles. In fact, in India, English movies shown on television channels too have English subtitles.The Same Language Subtitling (SLS) project at IIM-Ahmedabad has researched and implemented SLS pilots on TV in eight major Indian languages. Six distinct phases of evidence-based policymaking, with milestones ranging from rejection to acceptance, marked a journey that took 23 years. And yet, the most critical policy step remains unaccomplished — quality implementation of the policy on TV channels. Revolutionary potential A national implementation of SLS on existing general entertainment content (GEC) on TV and streaming platforms, also known as Over-The-Top (OTT), would revolutionise reading literacy in India, in addition to having massive national impact in two other domains, that of media access among Deaf and Hard of Hearing (DHH) people and of language learning. India is globally the first country where the mainstreaming of SLS on TV and streaming content is being advanced for mass reading literacy. When SLS is implemented on TV in all Indian languages, as broadcast policy now stipulates, it will automatically give daily reading practice to an estimated 600 million weak readers who currently cannot read and understand simple text, like a newspaper. Within three to five years of regular exposure to SLS on entertainment content already watched, many of them will become functional and some even fluent readers. Close to a billion viewers in India watch on average 3 hours and 46 minutes of TV every day (FICCI-EY, 2019). No other activity, nationally, comes close to commanding four billion person-hours every day. SLS has the proven power to transform much of TV and OTT content consumption into routine reading practice that is inescapable, subconscious, sustainable, scalable, and extremely cost-effective. COVID-19 has further highlighted the potential of the SLS solution for upping the nation’s mass reading skills. Globally, 1.4 billion children, and in India 300 million, have been locked out of schools. Intermittent school openings and closures are to be expected going forward. Even prior to COVID-19, the primary education system’s long-standing crisis was captured in the well-known outcome that half of India’s rural children in Class 5 could not read a Class 2-level text. The ‘Accessibility Standards’ of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB), framed in September 2019 under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, require 50% of all entertainment content on TV to carry captions in the same language, or SLS, by 2025. Perhaps, the onus is on Doordarshan to implement its own parent Ministry’s standards, before private channels can be obligated to do the same. Taking Netflix to court in the U.S. A policy quirk is that the MIB’s Accessibility Standards do not automatically apply to the content on OTT platforms, even though the content overlap is over 90%. In the U.S., the National Association of the Deaf (NAD) took Netflix to court on this issue, citing that its lack of closed-captioning on streaming content was a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Netflix lost and was ordered to caption all its streaming content by 2014, and to continue captioning content hosted thereafter. This explains why OTT platforms globally now offer captioning or SLS on all English content, because they have a legal obligation to do so. This victory did not come about through an appeal to corporate conscience, but rather, through the courts. In India, OTT platforms are currently in a dance with the government, arguing for self-regulation. Going by historical precedent, the only languages that OTT platforms provide SLS in are those that have been mandated generally in a country in the ‘Global North’. The ‘Global South’ is lagging in this regard, thus missing out on a simple and affordable intervention that it needs the most to address its low-reading literacy challenge. India could take the lead by mandating SLS on all Indian language content hosted by OTT platforms. If in normal times, reading along with SLS on TV at home, is known to complement and improve reading skills picked up in school; in the context of school closures and in life beyond schooling, SLS can power lifelong reading engagement and progress. Brij Kothari is on the faculty of IIM-Ahmedabad and the founder of PlanetRead||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/streaming-for-reading/article31966950.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Reforming India’s digital policy||With COVID-19 continuing to extend its reach globally, economic growth has plunged, and the competition for foreign investment is intensifying, spurred on by national campaigns to shift supply chains and the urgent necessity to reverse recessionary trends. Foreign direct investment (FDI) is falling and the immediate picture for many countries is not looking pretty. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development just released its latest World Investment Report and projected that FDI to developing Asian economies could drop by as much as 45%. One sector that is expected to buck this trend is digital services. Now more than ever, it is clear that digital services have become critical to every 21st century economy. Quite literally, digital services are filling gaps when national or global emergencies interrupt more traditional modes of commerce. Digital services enable access to and delivery of a wide array of products across multiple sectors, from healthcare to retail distribution to financial services. Even in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, investments in digital services continue to flow at record levels globally, outpacing investment in nearly every other sector. India is an ideal destination for increased FDI flows in the digital services sector and offers undeniable potential for innovative homegrown start-ups not least because of its huge and increasingly digitised population. However, Indian government policies will be key determinants in how quickly and at what level the Indian economy attracts new investment, fosters Indian innovation, and expands its exporting prowess. Three pending measures Currently, there are three pending reform measures under consideration that are likely to affect India’s growth trajectory in digital services for years to come — the Personal Data Protection Bill (PDPB), the e-commerce policy, and the Information Technology Act Amendments. Approaches in these regulatory reform efforts seem to emphasise a focus on protecting the domestic market for domestic companies and prioritising government access to data. It may be difficult to reconcile these approaches with India’s strong interest in promoting data privacy, protecting its democratic institutions, and encouraging FDI and India’s position as a global leader in information technology. Understandably, there is uncertainty about when these changes will be completed and implemented. Also, the course of the India-U.S. trade relationship is uncertain, as signs of progress are continually interrupted by setbacks in the form of new restrictions. The bilateral relationship is an important factor in realising the potential for greater trade and investment in digital services. The strategic relationship has been growing, reflecting how their historic ties have evolved over time. Where the relationship has lagged is with respect to trade. India and the U.S. are yet to conclude negotiation on a bilateral trade agreement that could address some digital services issues, and the U.S. just initiated a “Section 301” review of whether digital services taxes in 10 countries constitute “unfair” trade measures, including India’s equalisation levy. As India resumes its efforts to put into place a new architecture for digital services and as it pursues opportunities to attract new investment, the government and stakeholders might consider the full range of implications for the long-term. How might new policies affect India’s ability to attract foreign investment? How might these policies promote innovation through increased competition and create an environment that is friendly towards homegrown start-ups? Ultimately, what policies can best advance the objective of becoming a $5 trillion economy? India will be host of the G20 nations in 2022, and it appears clear that post-COVID-19 international cooperation and approaches to good governance in the digital sphere will be top-priority initiatives. The steps India takes now could well establish itself as a true global leader. Mark Linscott is a former Assistant U.S. Trade Representative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reforming-indias-digital-policy/article31966951.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Lax on safety||Two deadly industrial disasters, in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, leading to the loss of at least eight lives and causing serious injuries to many, once again underscore the value of safety protocols. In a boiler blast at the Neyveli thermal power station, six people were killed and a dozen workers suffered severe burns, while a toxic chemical leak at a pharmaceutical plant in Visakhapatnam led to two deaths immediately. These and two other recent disasters, also at a Neyveli power plant and the LG Polymers factory in the Visakhapatnam area, have come at a stressful time when India is trying to find its feet in the midst of the pandemic. What happened in Neyveli on Wednesday is inexplicable, since the power producer had encountered a boiler furnace blowout only on May 7, and had ordered a review of its infrastructure and processes. Without meticulous care, boilers are dangerous pieces of equipment. High-pressure and superheated steam make for a lethal combination, if their release mechanism is not kept in good order, and there is an explosion. For this very reason, they are regulated strictly under the Indian Boilers Act, at least on paper. The terrible consequences of lax boiler safety were evident three years ago in Rae Bareli, when a blast at an NTPC power plant killed a few dozen people. But States have clearly not internalised a culture of zero tolerance to boiler accidents. The gas leak in Visakhapatnam apparently involving benzimidazole, a chemical used in pharmaceuticals, raises questions on maintenance and operational procedures. The probe into how vapours of a stable but acutely toxic chemical escaped should lead to an upgrade to safety protocols. In the Neyveli incident, there is a suggestion that the boiler was not in operation as it had tripped and was in the process of being revived. Since the major operations of this equipment involve a furnace and production of steam, what led to an unexpected blowout? NLC India, a key power producer, has an obligation to present a transparent report on why its facilities are beset by mishaps. Occupational safety demands that boilers are operated by trained personnel, but some of those on the ground have been described as contract employees. It will take an independent probe to determine whether cost calculations guided staffing decisions in such a hazardous sector. The response of the Centre and States to industrial accidents is usually to stem public outrage by announcing compensation for victims. A transparent inquiry that leads to a fixing of responsibility and reform is a low priority. This culture must change. Such accidents are mostly preventable, and occur rarely in the industrialised world, because of impeccable attention to safety. India’s aspirations to industrialise should be founded on safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lax-on-safety/article31966936.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Promise and delivery||India’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine (COVAXIN) developed by a Hyderabad-based company in collaboration with the ICMR is all set to be tested on humans. The permission from the Drugs Controller General of India to carry out phase-1 and phase-2 human clinical trials was based on the safety and efficacy results of studies on mice, rats and rabbits. The phase-1 trial of the candidate vaccine using inactivated (killed) novel coronavirus will begin this month to test its safety. The virus used for developing the vaccine was isolated by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology from samples collected in India. Meanwhile, a Pune-based company is all set to manufacture two-three million doses of the University of Oxford vaccine if the results of its phase-1 clinical trial, which are expected in the first week of July, are encouraging. Millions of doses more will be manufactured if the results of the combined phase-2/3 trial are reassuring. In addition, the two companies are collaborating with universities and a biotechnology company to develop three more vaccines. With the pandemic raging and no antivirals available to treat severe COVID-19 patients, a vaccine that is even partially effective and protects for about a year will be in demand. Thus, an indigenous vaccine will mean guaranteed availability for Indians, while a significant percentage of the Oxford vaccine manufactured in India will be earmarked for local consumption. This is one reason why many countries are earnestly attempting to develop a vaccine. According to WHO, 17 candidate vaccines are in various stages of a human clinical trial, while 132 are in a pre-clinical trial stage. On June 25, China’s CanSino Biologics COVID-19 vaccine, became the first off the block when it was approved for use by the military for a period of one year. The phase-1 and phase-2 trials found the vaccine to be safe with a “potential to protect” against the disease. It is unclear if the vaccination will be optional or mandatory. While this is not the first time that countries have made vaccines under development available to the military even before the completion of the trial, there is growing concern that speeding up vaccine development by bypassing certain crucial stages of the trial process may prove counterproductive. In a poll in the U.S., one-third have said they would not get immunised against COVID-19 even if a vaccine was widely available and affordable. While many expect science to find a quick-fix, experts envisage 12-18 months to get a vaccine commercialised, if at all. But that timeline is already seen as aggressive. If scientists develop a safe, efficacious vaccine soon, public trust in science could grow substantially but there would be serious consequences if it fails, particularly on the safety aspect. Regulatory agencies have a responsibility to ensure COVID-19 vaccines deliver what they promise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/promise-and-delivery/article31966937.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||New exam scheme for languages||The Central Board of Secondary Education has reduced the “language load” in the Central schools and similar institutions preparing students for the All India Higher Secondary Examination. Under the new order, effective from the current academic year, a student would have to offer only one language (English, Hindi or Sanskrit) for the public examination at the eleventh year. The other two languages are to be taken at the ‘lower level’, one of them ending with the tenth standard and the third (in all probability Sanskrit) with the eighth standard. As of now, Sanskrit will continue to be taught only from the fifth standard. However, each student is required to pass in these two languages before he sits for the final examination. The order says that the scheme for the study of languages has been revised as the language load was found to be somewhat heavy. At the same time, the Board has decided that students should offer one more elective subject in addition to the present three subjects. One such combination of electives suggested is mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology which is expected to help the student join either the engineering or medical course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-exam-scheme-for-languages/article31966948.ece
02 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Manohar steps down as ICC chief||Shashank Manohar has formally stepped down as International Cricket Council (ICC) chairman after heading the sport’s global governing body for four years. Singapore’s Imran Khwaja — previously Manohar’s deputy — has been elevated as interim chairman until the process for the next chairman’s election is finalised. Election procedure Confirming Manohar’s departure and Khwaja’s elevation, the ICC said in a statement on Wednesday that its Board is “expected” to approve the election procedure for the successor “within the next week”. Despite Khwaja being an aspirant for the chairman’s post — BCCI president Sourav Ganguly remains a rank outsider — The Hindu understands that England’s Colin Graves is the favourite to assume responsibility during the ICC’s annual conference, likely to be held next month. Manohar, who made a surprising return as BCCI president in 2015 following Jagmohan Dalmiya’s demise, resigned from the BCCI and took over as the first independent chairman of the ICC in 2016. He played a significant role in realigning the ICC’s revenue model. BCCI’s dominance It was previously tilted in favour of India — along with England and Australia — since a majority of the ICC’s sponsorship came from the Indian market. This weakening of the BCCI’s dominance reportedly did not go down well with Manohar’s erstwhile colleagues. Debt of gratitude “There is no doubt that cricket owes Shashank a debt of gratitude for all he has done for the sport,” said Khwaja. “He has left cricket and the ICC in a better place than he found it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manohar-steps-down-as-icc-chief/article31967078.ece
02 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Indian women’s England tour on the cards||While there is uncertainty surrounding the Indian men’s cricket team’s return to action, the women’s side is set to tour England for a tri-series, which also features South Africa, in September. In addition to ensuring the squad’s safety during the pandemic — the series will likely be conducted in a bio-bubble — the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) will also need to appoint selectors if the tour is finalised. Non-existent  The women’s selection panel has virtually been non-existent since January.  The Hindu understands that the discussions between the BCCI and the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) on the tri-series are “well on course”. “As of now, unless the COVID-19 situation worsens, it’s only a matter of getting the government go-ahead and the tour is on,” said a BCCI insider privy to the developments. ECB chief executive Tom Harrison had hinted at the possibility of the tri-series on a BBC podcast last month. It is understood that the Indian team could depart around August 20 and observe a 14-day isolation period after landing. The tri-series could get underway around September 10. Selectors needed Besides securing governmental clearance, the BCCI has to get its act together on the selectors’ front. All five members of the previous committee, headed by Hemlata Kala, have served their tenure; the T20 World Cup selection meeting in January was their final assignment. In fact, on January 18, the BCCI invited applications for all five vacant posts in the women’s panel, along with two each in the senior and junior men’s selection committees. It has since filled vacancies only in the senior men’s panel. Still waiting While Kala confirmed on Wednesday that she and her colleagues had been relieved of their duties, almost a dozen former women’s internationals who have applied for the job are waiting to hear from the BCCI. “I have been in touch with some of the others who had applied and none of us have heard anything from the BCCI since January 24, which was the deadline for submitting applications,” said a candidate on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-womens-england-tour-on-the-cards/article31967069.ece
02 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||It was a different experience: Srinivas||For K. Srinivas, the 2014 World Cup carrom champion, it was another moment to cherish when he clinched men’s singles title on Tuesday night with a fluent win over India teammate Riaz Akbar Ali, in the inaugural World online carrom challenge, organised by International Carrom Federation and featuring about 80 players including those from UK, Switzerland, Canada and Sri Lanka, . “I feel happy to be the first World online champion though the usual buzz is missing, like spectators hovering around and the prize distribution,” he said. He picked up the winner’s purse of Rs. 30,000. “This is a different kind of experience, playing the sport without seeing the opponent. The biggest challenge being not to miss the straight coin for it will hamper your chances of pocketing the next coin. So, we have to avoid that with lot of care,” said the 27-year-old player from the City, said. Skills needed “You need lot of skills to stay on top in this format also. Though the body language of the players, which often plays a psychological role, is missing here, the pressure is still there,” said the IOC Assistant Manager, who also notched up 16 slams including two Ultimate Slams (white and black in succession) in this edition. “More than anything else, this format ensures there is some activity during the current Covid-19 crisis. This is important for any player to stay in touch with the game.” In terms of technical support, he says the officials are already working on improving the video quality during the games. “If there is a power failure, then it will be a fresh board and not from the position where it was disrupted,” Srinivas said. Buoyed by the success of this format, efforts are already on to have similar tournaments, to start with featuring at least top 16 players in men’s and women’s singles at the State-level. “We have already begun the groundwork for this format and will soon announce the schedule,” said the founder-president of Telangana Carrom Association, B.K. Haranath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-was-a-different-experience-srinivas/article31967320.ece
02 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Jitender banking on self-belief in Olympic quest||Asian silver medallist wrestler Jitender Kumar is aware of the imposing challenges he may face whenever a trial is conducted for the men’s freestyle 74kg class. Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, former World Championship medallist Narsingh Yadav, who is coming out of a four-year doping ban, and former Asian bronze winner Parveen Rana are some of the leading names in this category. They will be keen to compete in case the Wrestling Federation of India opts for a trial for the Olympic qualifying event in the post-COVID-19 period. However, Jitender is not overawed by the big names. “I am aware of the challenge I may face. I am confident of getting past my opponents. These big names inspire me to give my best,” he told The Hindu . Setback Jitender agreed that the postponement of the Asian Olympics qualifier due to the pandemic was a setback for him. “I was giving good performances. My training, schedule and rhythm were good. I was confident after winning the Asian silver and it would have been an advantage for me had the Olympics happened in time.” In order to maintain his tempo, Jitender is staying and training with friend and three-time World Championships medallist Bajrang Punia in the latter’s flat in Sonipat. “We have been training for a long time. I learn a lot from Bajrang’s work ethics and he helps me rectify my technical issues.” Help from Bentinidis Jitender said his performance improved after coming in contact with Georgian coach Shako Bentinidis, who also trains Bajrang. “The best thing about Shako is he improves your game without changing your style. Shako keeps in touch and tells us what to do. Right now I am working on some technical issues, including those in attack and defence.” The 26-year-old two-time Commonwealth Championship gold medal winner is banking on his self-belief in his quest for Olympics glory. “I have not yet realised my potential and believe that I can win the Olympics gold medal,” said Jitender.  I learn a lot from Bajrang’s work ethics and he helps me rectify my technical issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jitender-banking-on-self-belief-to-do-well/article31967080.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,||The mind can move mountains: Harinder||One of the most enduring stories in Indian squash last year was the comeback of Harinder Pal Singh Sandhu. The Indian recovered from a career-threatening back injury he suffered in January and went on to win a PSA Challenger Tour title. “I want to win more medals for my country; that’s the biggest motivation for me. I have a lot of squash left in me," said Harinder, ranked 115th in the world, during a webinar organised by the Squash Rackets Federation of India. The 31-year-old advised junior players to watch videos of Indian and foreign players, and some of their own, during the lockdown to learn and unlearn a lot of things. “Earlier, you were focusing more on the physical side... now do the opposite — get strong mentally. The mind can win you games and championships. In fact, they say, the mind can move mountains,” he said. Watching videos of the top players, like Egypt’s Karim Abdel Gawad, No. 3 in the world, will help understand the game better, Harinder felt. “You should see how he (Gawad) uses his soft hands to play brilliant backhand drops." Analyse The 2014 Asian Games gold medallist urged the juniors to make a diary of the matches they’ve played in, and analyse them in consultation with the coaches. “Do an analysis of your own matches, and use it at the National championships, or when you play against certain top players. Changes don't happen overnight,” he stated. Gradual return Harinder said it was imperative that young players got back to full-fledged action gradually than in a rushed manner once the lockdown is lifted. “The focus should be to get back your swing. Now is the time for structured strength-based training. I am doing maintenance work on my lower back. Give attention to the minor niggles. Build a solid foundation for your mind and body," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-mind-can-move-mountains-says-harinder/article31967132.ece
02 July 2020||Bengaluru,||From slam dunks to scanning the streets||Basketball player Amjyot Singh jumped at the chance to serve the nation during this period of crisis. Amjyot, an Additional Station House Officer with Punjab Police, patrols the streets of Jalandhar to ensure that the rules of the lockdown are followed. “People must wear masks in public. You cannot take vehicles out without a pass, and so on. My task is to make sure that everyone follows the rules,” Amjyot said. The 6’8” forward was asked to perform this duty by Punjab Police, which was in need of extra personnel to cope with the situation. Amjyot, who joined the force in 2017 under sports quota, was happy to accept the role given that basketball action had stopped. “It is my honour to serve the nation. I wear the police uniform with pride,” the 28-year-old said. Amjyot, who played in the NBA G-League for Oklahoma City Blue, is aware of the risks involved in the job. “We follow all measures to stay safe. We’ve been provided with masks and sanitisers. We follow distancing norms. Our senior officers are there to guide and help us. Punjab Police has given us all the support we need,” he said. Getting recognised There have been occasions where Amjyot has been recognised by people he has stopped for violating the law. “I’m so tall; I’m hard to miss even with the mask on. Some people are surprised to see me in uniform, while others appreciate me for serving in the police force,” said Amjyot. Among the most talented hoopsters in India, Amjyot keeps a watch over the city in his eight-hour shifts. “It is a tough job, but a thoroughly rewarding one,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/from-slam-dunks-to-scanning-the-streets/article31967065.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tanisha building a tennis career in the US||Tanisha Kashyap has not been making waves in the international junior tennis circuit, but has been diligently training hard in the US for the last two years, in building a strong foundation for her professional career. The 18-year-old Tanisha who will be studying psychology at the Ohio State University from August, had been training at the Nick Bollettieri Academy in Florida for a year, before moving to the Club Med Academies last season. After finishing her high school in the US, Tanisha could not return home owing to the coronavirus pandemic. She has been training with coach Jeremy Doualot and fitness trainers Ivan Guerrero and Gabe Jaramillo. Tanisha also got to train with Japan’s Natsumi Kawaguchi, a top-5 junior in the world. “Getting into a top-5 college for tennis in the NCAA division-1 has always been my plan. I can get my degree at one of the best colleges and also be playing professional tennis along side. I am really lucky to have parents who have always supported me,” said Tanisha, when contacted in Florida. Being away from her parents has also helped Tanisha realise their value. “Hats off to all the moms who cook for their children. It is really a big job. I didn’t realise this until I had to cook for myself. Since I couldn’t return home, I have been staying with a family, and have to prepare my own meals. It was exhausting to cook and train at the same time. I miss my family,” said Tanisha. The individual attention at the club has sharpened her game and fitness. “With Ivan and Jeremy, I have always felt like family. I have had the best training of my life with them. Most importantly, they have tremendous belief in me,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanisha-building-a-tennis-career-in-the-us/article31967227.ece
02 July 2020||Chennai,||Raman gets Sports Achiever Award||Former India opener and the current coach of the women’s cricket team W.V. Raman was presented the Sports Achiever Award by the Rotary Club of Madras in a virtual function on Tuesday. Raman, who has been coach of the women’s team since December 2018, guided it to the final of the World T20 earlier this year in Australia. Difference in coaching Raman, who has coached domestic and IPL teams — Kolkata Knight Riders and Kings XI Punjab — and was batting coach at the National Cricket Academy, spoke on the difference between guiding the men’s and women’s teams. “In terms of coaching, there is not a lot of difference, but the communication has to be different. Women don’t have the experience in terms of number of matches and years they have played, compared to the boys who play from the age of 14 or 15 and have seven to eight years of experience when they make it to the top. So it takes time for them to catch on to what you say,” said Raman. Gap narrowing “However, now with India-A and under-23 matches, that gap is narrowing and they will catch up soon,” the 55-year-old added. “Being involved in sport has helped me handle the tough times over the last few months. In these tough times, we need to work as a team and look out for each other,” said Raman while accepting the award,  Being involved in sport has helped me handle the tough times over the last few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raman-gets-sports-achiever-award/article31967129.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Naga Jothi shocks Rashmi, wins title||Naga Jothi stunned two-time world champion and favourite Rashmi Kumari with a strong performance in the women’s final of the World online carrom challenge. It was a close fight, as Naga Jothi wound up with 37 points, as against 39 by Rashmi, but Jothi’s white slam cut the points tally by five points, and improved the margin of victory. The tournament featured four Ultimate slams, 22 white slams and 75 black slams. The best ultimate slam award went to Srinivas, while the best white and black slams awards were bagged by Sandeep Deorukhkar and S. Appoorwa. In the men’s final, K. Srinivas was in roaring form as he unleashed a white slam and four black slams to outclass Riyaz Akbar Ali. Having cleared the eight boards with 21 misses, Srinivas, an officer with the Indian Oil, had a net score of 4, as 17 points were knocked off owing to his slams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naga-jothi-srinivas-win-world-carrom-challenge/article31967066.ece
02 July 2020||Southampton,||Stokes will do a great job as skipper: Silverwood||England coach Chris Silverwood believes Ben Stokes will make up for a great leader when he captains in the first Test against West Indies. England’s World Cup hero Ben Stokes was on Tuesday named captain for the opening Test against West Indies in place of Root, who has taken leave to be with his wife for the birth of their second child. “I think he will do a great job. He is a talisman, isn’t he? He leads from the front anyway. We know he has got an aggressive nature but equally there is a good cricket brain in there as well. I think he will be quite vocal about what moves he is making out there,” Silverwood was quoted as saying by The Guardian . “I’m looking forward to working with him from a coaching point of view. I will extend him the same courtesies I do Rooty. He will have a lot of say in what is going on and he will play a big part in giving his opinions across selection as well,” he said. Silverwood also revealed that Jos Buttler will be Stokes deputy in the opening Test. The English coach is not reading much into Stokes’ lack of leadership experience. “He’s been Rooty’s right-hand man for a while now. I know Rooty does turn to him a lot. He’s been involved in a lot of talks we have behind the scenes,” Silverwood added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-will-do-a-great-job-as-skipper-silverwood/article31967321.ece
02 July 2020||Barcelona,||Record for Messi but no joy for Barca||Lionel Messi scored his 700th career goal for club and country before Atletico Madrid came back to draw 2-2 in the Spanish league on Tuesday and deal Barcelona’s title hopes a major blow. Barcelona’s third draw in four rounds left it in second place, one point behind leader Real Madrid. Barcelona was two points ahead of Madrid when the league was halted in March because of the coronavirus outbreak. Bruno Fernandes scored twice to lead Manchester United to a 3-0 victory over Brighton to maintain its push for Champions League qualification. United moved back into fifth place while Brighton is six points above the relegation zone. Cristiano Ronaldo scored with a long-range rocket on a night when each Juventus goal was more spectacular than the other in a 3-1 win at relegation-threatened Genoa.  The results: La Liga: Real Mallorca 5 (Budimir 13-pen, 52, Hernandez 27, Pozo 40, Salva Sevilla 60) bt Celta Vigo 1 (Aspas 50-pen); Leganes 0 lost to Sevilla 3 (Torres Munoz 23, 35, Munir 82); Barcelona 2 (Costa 12-og, Messi 50-pen) drew with Atletico Madrid 2 (Niguez 19-pen, 62-pen).   Premier League: Brighton 0 lost to Manchester United 3 (Greenwood 16, Fernandes 29, 50).   Serie A: Torino 1 (Belotti 5-pen) lost to Lazio 2 (Immobile 48, Parolo 73); Genoa 1 (Pinamonti 76) lost to Juventus 3 (Dybala 50, Ronaldo 57, Costa 73).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/record-for-messi-but-no-joy-for-barca/article31967087.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen in a good position||Magnus Carlsen turned down a draw offer and soon gained from a stunning blunder from Ding Liren to win the first game of the second set in the semifiinals of the Chessable Masters on Wednesday.  Semifinals results: Second set: Rapid (Game One): Ding Liren lost to Magnus Carlsen; Anish Giri drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi.   First set: Blitz: Game One: Ding drew with Carlsen; Two : Carlsen bt Ding.   Rapid: Carlsen v Ding: Game One : Carlsen won; Two : Ding won; Three : Draw; Four: Draw. Nepomniachtchi v Giri: Game One : Draw; Two: Giri won; Three: Draw; Four: Giri won .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-in-a-good-position/article31967067.ece
02 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Vaishali stuns Muzychuk||R.Vaishali’s fine run continued at the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess, as she shocked former World rapid and blitz champion Anna Muzychuk of Ukraine in the first round of the second Grand Prix leg on Wednesday. The Chennai girl showed great character to win 6-4 after being 2-4 down. Vaishali won the last four games to clinch a quarterfinal berth. Harika bows out The other Indian in this leg of the tour, Dronavalli Harika, crashed out. She was beaten 4-7 by Ukraine’s Anna Ushenina, the winner of the first leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaishali-stuns-muzychuk/article31967070.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||HI application for coaches||Hockey India on Wednesday launched its open application system for registration of coaches and technical officials. Any interested candidate can submit his or her application through the system for further approval. The first step to being a HI-registered coach or official would be approval from the concerned Member Unit, following which the application would require final approval from HI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hi-application-for-coaches/article31967083.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||India among five bidders for 2027 Asian Cup||India has bid for the 2027 Asian Cup hosting rights along with four other countries, the Asian Football Federation (AFC) has revealed. The other bidders for Asia’s premier football tournament are Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Uzbekistan. Of the five countries expressing an interest, two nations — Qatar and Iran — have already hosted the tournament twice since its inception in 1956.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-among-five-bidders-for-2027-asian-cup/article31967071.ece
02 July 2020||MUMBAI,||UTT’s support to crowdfunding campaign by three paddlers||A crowdfunding exercise by A. Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan and Neha Aggarwal to contribute to the livelihoods of the table tennis community received a fillip on Wednesday when Ultimate Table Tennis (UTT) announced that it was supporting the campaign. While UTT didn’t reveal the details, The Hindu understands that it has chipped in with Rs. 2 lakh. Last week, the paddlers started an online campaign — Our Chance to Serve — with the aim of raising Rs. 10 lakh to support 100 coaches and officials struggling due to the pandemic. UTT chairperson Vita Dani termed the initiative a means to “strengthen their resolve during these tough times”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/utts-support-to-crowdfunding-campaign-by-three-paddlers/article31967082.ece
02 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Two more species added to India’s list of butterflies||Lepidopterists in Arunachal Pradesh have helped add two species to India’s expanding list of butterflies. One of them, the Striped Hairstreak, was first recorded by Japanese entomologists in Hainan province of China. The other, Elusive Prince, has a Vietnamese connection and was thought to be the more familiar Black Prince found in the Eastern Himalayas. “Our team has added the two butterfly species, which has been published in the April-June edition of the Bionotes journal. India now has 1,327 species, up from 1,318 in 2015,” said Minom Pertin, deputy director of the Society for Education and Environmental Development (SEED) from Miao in Changlang district. Mr. Pertin was one of four citizen scientists who provided specimens and photographic inputs for Peter Smetacek of the Butterfly Research Centre in Uttarakhand’s Bhimtal to confirm the two species. The others are Roshan Upadhyay based in Vijaynagar of Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district, Sonam Dorji of Bhutan and Antonio Giudici, a butterfly guide based in Thailand. The Striped Hairstreak ( Yamamotozephyrus kwangtugenesis ) was located in Vijaynagar bordering Myanmar while the Elusive Prince was found in Miao on the periphery of the Namdapha National Park. “We were initially of the opinion that the Elusive Prince was a variant of the Black Prince, but the dissection of our specimen revealed it was different and not recorded in India before,” Mr. Pertin said. “The Rohana genus had been represented in India by two species — the Black Prince ( Rohana parisatis ) and the Brown Prince ( Rohana parvata ). In the former, the male is black and the female is brown while in the latter, both male and female are brown. We have only had a male specimen of the Elusive Prince, so named because it is very difficult to find,” Mr. Smetacek told The Hindu . The scientific name of the Elusive Prince is Rohana tonkiniana , named after Tonkin in north Vietnam, where it was first recorded. It was believed to exist in Bhutan, but studies of the specimen found there have not been conclusive. The discovery of the Striped Hairstreak, whose genus was broken into several genera by Japanese researchers, was more intriguing for the lepidopterists. “The place where it was found borders northern Myanmar, where three males were recorded earlier. But there’s a huge gap between this area and Hainan island in south-eastern China,” Mr. Smetacek said. Rich biodiversity According to Mr. Pertin, the findings from Arunachal Pradesh indicate the rich biodiversity of the State. “The government thus needs to focus on helping volunteers or citizen scientists by providing the support needed. This will help in boosting eco-tourism apart from regular scientific researches,” he said. The recording of the two butterflies follows the “rediscovery” of the Assam Keelback, a non-venomous snake from the Gelling area of Arunachal Pradesh after 129 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/two-more-species-added-to-indias-list-of-butterflies/article31967085.ece
02 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Academy of Motion Picture Arts invites Chennai expert as member||Qube Cinema Technologies co-founder V. Senthil Kumar has been invited by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which confers Oscar awards, to be one of its ‘Members At Large’. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kumar said he was surprised to receive the invitation from The Academy on Wednesday. “I was surprised as it needs two people to nominate and they have a process. I didn’t have any advance notice. They have different areas of the industry where members can contribute — I would obviously be interested to work more on the technology side of things,” said Mr. Kumar, adding that it was good for cinema in south India if more people get into The Academy. Stating that only “time can tell” the areas he would like to work on specifically, Mr. Kumar said the ‘Academy Colour Encoding System’ developed by hundreds of industry experts, as the Oscars website puts it, was the industry standard for managing colour throughout the life cycle of a motion picture or television production. “I think the process that The Academy follows is exceptional. I would like to see how we can imbibe some of their processes that can make our own awards more fairer,” he said. Mr. Kumar added that the next evolution in movie watching experience was removing projectors from cinema halls and installing large LED screens. “Around the world, about 40 cinema halls already have it. This is the next big thing. We are working towards bringing it to India as well,” he said.  LED screens are the next big thing [in cinema halls]. We are working towards bringing it to India Senthil Kumar Qube Cinema Technologies co-founder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/academy-of-motion-picture-arts-invites-chennai-expert-as-member/article31967063.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 07:34 IST,||Sudoku - July 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-2-2020/article31967867.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Not so fast, virus||Far, far away, in a capsule (read: country) of the Virule viruses, Zyrus skipped and tumbled into a meeting of the Virule Congress. She was late; she overslept, you see. Naturalist and writer Zai Whitaker’s engaging e-book for Tulika, Zyrus the Virus, was recently launched online. It features a helpful glossary for technical terms such as ‘Dearth’ for Earth and ‘swosh’, meaning a virus flight to Dearth to spread disease. In her sci-fi take on COVID-19, Zai, who is the managing trustee of the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust, also talks about important environmental issues that have to be addressed now more than ever. There have been so many children’s books on the pandemic: how did you approach the subject? Well, the pandemic is a story at so many levels and with so many angles… social, political, environmental, psychological and many more. It’s also an adventure story like no other, and we have yet to see the ending. So I approached it like the ultimate human adventure; which it is, of course. You have created an engaging world, encapsulating an important message. Was it challenging to entertain and educate at the same time?  Yes, this is always a challenge for a writer; you have to straddle that fine line between those two elements. One wobble, on either side, can mess up the whole thing. I remember begging my mother before my birthday, “Please, no educational books please!” This is always at the back of my mind when I write. The story should be at the centre, and it should be a good one, worth reading for its own sake. Is this your first attempt at sci-fi? Are you a fan of the genre yourself?  I love Jules Verne and Margaret Atwood. And of course, we’re living science fiction today; things that were fiction a few years ago are happening now. I can see Gilead just round the corner! I didn’t realise I’d written “science fiction” until someone mentioned it the other day, I thought I was just writing a story. But yes, certainly my first attempt and I do hope there isn’t another pandemic in my lifetime and I won’t be writing another one. Could you share a line or two on the importance of taking care of our planet, the message that forms the crux of your book?  In my mind, this is surely the biggest challenge humanity has faced and unless all of us — politicians and citizens alike — work together to resolve today’s burning environmental issues, these climate change-related catastrophes will continue and worsen. Did writing this book help you deal with lockdown blues?  Of course, reading and watching news about the human misery in our country and indeed across the world is terrible, but the least one can do is bear witness. The lockdown has brought out the best and the worst in humanity. We have people like Vikas  Khanna feeding millions of people; we have others cheating the poorest of the poor, as happened recently in the Irula village of Selayur. At a personal level: I am a part of the Croc Bank team, which is engaged in keeping the zoo going in spite of having no visitors and income. Our focus is the animals and their welfare. This helps take care of the ‘blues’ and keeps self-pity at bay (most of the time). Writing this book was a great ‘time pass’. It was certainly different from any of my earlier writing experiences. I really enjoyed thinking up vyrious virus-related words! How do you feel about this ‘new normal’ in which book launches are held online?  I’m trying to get better at the online stuff, because there’s no doubt that even when ‘normal’ returns, social and work routines are going to be very different. They have to be, they better be. Still find myself hitting the wrong key and disappearing from Zoom chats, or waving to strangers at video meetings, but there are plenty of smart young people here at the Croc Bank who manage to rescue me most of the time. The online book launch was great, except that one of the smart young people who was helping me, loudly announced that I’d gone to the washroom and would be back soon. He’ll be hearing about this! How do you envision a world post pandemic?  In my most pessimistic moments, I envision it being what it was before the pandemic. In my most optimistic moments, I envision it being very, very different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-so-fast-virus/article31966911.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Koothu comes home||There was new energy about Mu Harikrishnan’s terrace. In the village of Yervadi near Salem that evening, over half a dozen shadow puppetry artisans and musicians moved about busily, giving final touches to their stage. They had worked on this for two days. Leather puppets were dusted — they had been wasting away for three months due to the lockdown — and lights were set up. Players of instruments such as mugaveenai , mridangam , harmonium, and kai thalam took their places, and the legendary ‘Ammapettai’ Ganesan, the soothradhari who manoeuvers the strings and is the voice of the lead characters, took his position. At 6 pm sharp on June 21, they went live on Facebook for the first time ever. “We had over 600 people viewing the show,” says Harikrishnan, who put it all together. The 46-year-old, who has been organising therukoothu , thorpaavai koothu and marapaavai koothu (street theatre, shadow and string puppetry) shows for 15 years in Tamil Nadu, had put out an invite on social media a week ahead, announcing the show. He also included a clause that said that those interested can donate Rs. 100 per head. “Around 40 people sent us donations,” points out Harikrishnan, adding that he was happy that he was able to pay at least something to the artisans; every bit of encouragement is precious in these times. Streets to screens Harikrishnan is from a family of street theatre artistes — his father was into the art and so was his grandfather. “The past few months have been tough on us. We belong to the crowds — temple festivals, funerals and other events where people gather — for whom we perform koothu, sometimes for eight hours at a stretch.” With the lockdown forcing his audience to stay indoors, Harikrishnan decided that they needed to find a way to take shows to them. “We have no choice but to adapt; the situation is such,” he says. While Harikrishnan wanted to find an alternative source of income for koothu artistes, he also wanted to make sure that the art form was constantly in public view. “This is important for the language as well as the arts. Only if they are in use at all times, will they survive in the long run,” he explains. “Whether there is famine or war, art should continue to do its job. We’ve had some great literature during some of our worst wars.” Their shows are based on the Ramayana and the Mahabharata . For their first Facebook live, they chose to do ‘Hanuman Thoodhu’, in which Hanuman goes to meet Sita. The content, explains Harikrishnan, had to be tweaked for the online space, and cut down to one hour. Among the best things the experience gave them, are the many perks that come with technology. For the first time, 64-year-old ‘Ammapettai’ Ganesan, who has been performing for more than 50 years, was able to hear his voice clearly during and after the show. “Usually, while koothu is on, the performers hardly hear their own singing. There’s a lot of crowd and disturbance,” explains Harikrishnan. But now, he was able to record and playback Ganesan his performance. “He was thrilled,” he adds. Harikrishnan is busy planning a traditional string puppet show now. He realises that getting the artistes to gather on his terrace — they are spread in various villages in and around Salem — and convincing them to do short formats, is a mammoth task. “This is what I thought when I planned our first show,” he says. “It was not easy. We made mistakes; tempers ran high; we even got into fist fights, shirts were torn…” he chuckles. “But in the end, we did it.”  Harikrishnan plans to stream shows online every week from his terrace. For details, follow him on Facebook/Mu Harikrishnan, email manalveedu@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/koothu-comes-home/article31966935.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Home for the holidays||Surf Turf — the surf school in Covelong — is currently closed. Normally bustling with surfers at this time, the airy property, facing the Bay of Bengal, is awaiting the Government’s orders to soon reopen. “The whole of last month we have been getting calls from people asking when we will reopen,” says Arun Vasu, founder. With countries, and even States sealing borders, in addition to compulsory post-travel quarantines, Arun is positive that domestic tourism will grow this year. With the current emphasis on physical distancing because of COVID-19, open spaces are likely to be attractive to cautious staycationers, says Arun, adding, “Activities offered here, like surfing and standup paddling requires one person per board,” he says. Surf Turf’s rooms have been revamped and now have attached bathrooms so clients do not have to worry about sharing a common space. “We will avoid big groups so it will be a little quieter. And we plan to encourage those who come to stay longer,” says Arun. Further down the coast at Quest Adventure Sports Academy, Rameshwaram, new sanitisation guidelines are being implemented. The homestay and academy, which is also temporarily shut, draws clients from across the country. Some stay to learn scuba diving and other water activities, while others visit for a day. “There is pent up demand; people want to travel as soon as it opens. Some of them want to stay with us for two weeks,” says Jehan Driver, managing director of Quest Adventure Sports Academy. Here too, an attraction is the fact that all activities are outdoors. “We work with small numbers of people and spend most of the time in the ocean, away from the crowd,” he says . COVID-19 has forced the world to cancel vacations, reunions and business trips this year. The beleaguered travel and hospitality industries have been hit with waves of cancellations. Now, as countries cautiously reopen after many months of lockdowns, people are looking for safe ways to return to some semblance of normal life. Resurgence of an old trend Staycation’s popularity has peaked after the pandemic began (according to Google Trends, at least) due to the restriction and risks involved in long-distance travel. For instance, Airbnb bookings are slowly rising, as hosts find ways to draw guests back, offering entire villas and monthly stays at competitive prices. The tourism industry, which has suffered a sudden yet savage blow, is counting on this surge in staycations to recover. More and more luxury hotels, resorts, homestays and other players are designing packages for locals. This could, in turn, control the damage of the floundering economy as well. Staycations, however, are important at a personal level, too. With the pandemic triggering layoffs and pay cuts, employees — especially millions who work from home — perhaps feel the need (or are asked) to work longer and harder. In this context, vacations seem like an indulgence. But, given the spike in depression, a short break now may be more important than ever before. Take a break  Some people, due to strict travel restrictions and safety concerns, are okay vacationing at home. They use this time to learn new skills, perhaps bar-be-cue with their family or just binge watch films. L Manjula Ramakrishnan, who works in a financial advisory firm in Bengaluru, says she prefers a nearby getaway. “I was okay with the lockdown for the first month or so,” says Manjula. “But after a point, you want to step out and just breathe fresh air.” Manjula and her daughter drove to the Porcupine Castle resort atop a hill in Coorg. “It was good to surround ourselves with greenery and get some clean air after being locked inside the house for almost two months.” Porcupine Castle is also offering a ‘workation’ package for guests who wish to work, looking at the lush greenery and listening to bird song. It includes a 10-day stay, high-speed WiFi and a conference room. It costs Rs. 2,500 per night compared to their usual room rates starting from Rs. 6,500. Working from home is likely to continue even after the COVID-19 crisis abates. So, millions of employees can afford to go on staycations like this without worrying about taking leave. The pandemic, hence, has not just changed the nature of work; it has changed the way people vacation as well. Attracting local guests Worldwide, it would take a while for the tourism industry to recuperate. HVS-Anarock, a global consultant for hospitality, estimates that India’s hotel industry will lose Rs. 90,000 crore during this calendar year. Hoteliers and owners of homestays and resorts are keeping their expectations low for the rest of the year. But they all count on intra-city and intra-State bookings. Hubloft, a Kochi-based vacation rental service, gets one-fourth of their annual bookings from abroad and about 35% from Kerala. But since reopening after a lockdown on June 8, all bookings have been from within the State. Raiyaan Nayeem, Hubloft’s founding partner, says, “We are marketing ourselves as a place to get together. Most of our enquiries are from youngsters — a bunch of friends or couples. They can’t go to cafés, restaurants and pubs. So, they look to rent private villas.” Hubloft has relaxed its cancellation policy to encourage more last-minute bookings. Future of vacations The pandemic also seems to have created a demand for unique and private staycation spots. On June 30, A Travel Circle launched in India, promising customised luxury staycations for its customers. Its founder Pritish Shah says, “The changing travel expectations in the new normal world align very well with our offerings — private villas for social distancing, private jets to avoid commercial airports, highest standards in safety with our carefully selected hospitality partners and other service vendors.” Raiyaan’s Hubloft has started houseboat rentals in Alleppey. “We get about 100 enquiries every day. And, most of them are looking for a one-day stay, which costs Rs. 8,000 for a couple.” It’s definitely more expensive than meeting your loved ones at a café. But how often do you get to share a sunset with them with almost-still water gleaming beneath?     tout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/home-for-the-holidays/article31966916.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||In a happy space||Nithya Menen who makes her OTT debut with the web series Breathe: Into The Shadows , that drops on Amazon Prime Video on July 10, says the format is right up her alley. It is the kind of work she has always wanted to do. She calls it her “best performance to date” over telephone. The last one year has been eventful for Menen who has proven herself in Malayalam, Tamil, Kannada and Telugu films. In 2019 she made her Bollywood debut in Mission Mangal and also started work on her first web series. Breathe... is releasing almost on schedule, she says, adding that the planned ‘big’ promotions wouldn’t happen and most of the action would now be done remotely due to the pandemic. It is the second season of the series, Breathe , which aired on Prime Video in 2018. Menen makes her digital debut with Abhishek Bachchan who also appears for the first time in a web series. She and Bachchan are, going by trailers, parents of a missing girl Siya. Menen reveals nothing about her role, but she does speak about the experience, the luxury of time in a web series to perform, and the space she got as actor in the series directed by Mayank Sharma. What is your take on working in this new format. Is it different from films? I really had a good time. There were no conventional limitations that one faces in films. This is the stuff I dreamt about. Even the environment of work — working with people on a similar wavelength was my happy space. On set there was an understanding of the emotional space that an actor requires and I got that. The idea is not usually understood, nor is an actor given that in films where there is a lot of ‘noise’ around. For an actor to really perform, they need that to get into the emotional space of the character. I miss that in films. There were fewer people on set here. I was given the environment to perform, I felt understood and supported. This is my best performance. I am looking forward to seeing it. Has the current situation ruined the release plan?  There were plans for a big release, with a big launch and all, but due to the present situation all that changed. In fact the makers wanted to have promotions in the South, especially but now all that would be done remotely. You once told me the format gives more time for an actor, to perform and shape the character.  Yes. There is so much time, so much an actor can do — in this case there is 12 hours of content — there is no limitation of time while doing a scene. While in films you need to be crisp, and since I am used to it; at times, on sets, I would do a scene fast and Mayank Sharma (the director) would tell me ‘take your time’. I felt pampered because of that. Was language a problem? Is it all Hindi?  It is both Hindi and English, language was not a problem. I am comfortable with Hindi. The team was mixed, I was telling Mayank that it did not feel like a Hindi set. It was quite nice! How did you land the role?  Mayank has a strong South Indian connect — he watches a lot of a South Indian films. He had seen OK Kanmani and knew me because of that and was familiar with my work. He wanted me to act in the series, and was insistent that I be part of the project. And how are you handling lockdown?  I am content and happy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-a-happy-space/article31966881.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Charred by fire and time||In 1945, as the Second World War was nearing its end, the unimaginable happened. A bunker in the Berlin suburbs, housing more than 1,600 paintings and sculptures from several of The Berlin State Museums, caught fire: not once, but twice, of which one is believed to be arson. In the bunker were objects of art that had been transported from what is now known as the Bode Museum in Berlin, to avoid any possibility of damage during the war. All the paintings burnt to ashes. However, sculptures and decorative arts, though damaged beyond recognition, were retrieved from under the debris, covered in soot and grime. Six months later, several fragments were sent to the Soviet Union by two trains, marking the start of an effort of mammoth proportions to restore these invaluable works. The Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts received them, and by 2010, more than 750 museum objects had been restored. The project is still underway, says conservator, Daria Babich, in an introductory webinar that was held last week. Thirty of these objects and their journeys have been documented in a photo exhibition, fittingly called Twice Rescued, curated to honour the 75th anniversary of the Allied victory. Though available for viewing online, Chennai will physically experience this exhibition in September, thanks to the Pushkin State Museum’s collaboration with the Russian Centre of Science and Culture. International effort Borodin Igor Viktorovich, head of the the Pushkin State Museum’s department of conservation, explains over email, “Up to 35 specialists from different institutions in Moscow participated in studying and conserving the pieces. Now, researchers and 15 technical specialists and conservators of metal, ceramics and stone are involved in this project.” Each piece has a unique story. Take, for instance, the bust of The Princess of Naples :Today, it is divided in two parts, with the head in Berlin, and the rest in Moscow. “At the end of the 19th Century, when German art historian Wilhelm von Bode bought it from the heirs of the ancient Strozzi family in Florence, the bust became famous,” narrates Viktorovich. However, in the 1990s, the bust was declared fake, though even if this was true, he believes that it would not change its illustrious history. A statue of Zeus from Dodona is another rare artefact. “The author of the original statue is unknown, it is clear only that they worked in the middle of the 4th Century BC, were from the Peloponnese and in terms of skill level were equal to the great Lysippos,” explains Viktorovich. The statuette is also remarkable for the fact that it was found in Dodona, one of the famous oracle sanctuaries in northern Greece. 130 fragments When it came to restoration, the greatest challenge came in the form of the red-figure Amphora depicting Theban hero, Actaeon’s death, which was brought in 130 fragments. “The treatments took more than 10 years (the work lasted from 2004 till 2015). The first stage was to identify all the fragments. Then, the fragments had to be consolidated and cleaned both from the traces of the 19th Century restoration and the war-time grime. After that, conservators who worked on the object essentially had to put it together like a puzzle,” Viktorovich says. He adds that contemporary conservation principles do not allow any structural interference. So, to be able to fill in the missing parts, it was decided to reconstruct it digitally. It took a team of conservators, art historians, artists and IT-specialists a few months to do this. Donatello’s St John the Baptist was one of the most damaged statues: missing both feet, and an arm, as well as part of the cape. This priceless piece spent several decades in storage. “Our conservators were able to recreate the rest thanks to a plaster copy of the statue which was made before the war and is now exhibited at the museum along with the original work. All this work, including the research, took 1.5 years.” The website that was created specifically for display is maintained in four languages and provides meticulous documentation. In them are answers to larger questions concerning the cultural, political and historical significance of the war. “The lessons of history teach us a lot,” says Viktorovich. “One of the main lessons of the Second World War is that we have to do everything in our power to prevent recurrence of similar events.”  Visit www.museum conservation.ru/data/specprojects/twice-rescued/about-eng.html to know more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/charred-by-fire-and-time/article31966884.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Hands that sow||When Vasanth Kumar and his brother Vijaya Kumar launched I Support Farming in 2016, their mission was to connect city dwellers with farmers by way of crowd-funding for agriculture. “While I Support Farming functioned as a facilitator, the farming profit was shared with the investors. We had immense support for this initiative and it turned out to be a win-win for farmers and investors; a kind of partnership where farmers get financial support and the profit is shared,” says Vasanth Kumar, who holds a Bachelor’s degree in Agriculture. He purchased 10 acres of agricultural land at Marakkanam in 1999. “Back then, I did not have practical knowledge, and it was the farmers in the region where I started cultivating, who helped me understand the various issues pertaining to farming practices,” says Vasanth. By interacting with them, he understood that one of the main challenges faced by small-scale farmers was insufficient working capital. Some times, they are forced to leave their lands fallow for want of just Rs. 5,000; they gradually give up agriculture, says Vasanth. Which was what I Support Farming wanted to address. “A few years down the line, we were supporting 200 farmers spread across seven districts in the State, covering about 650 acres of agricultural land (of which 130 acres are organic). We now provide assistance in mechanised farming by way of lending them weeder and transplant machines periodically,” he explains. Vasanth’s younger brother Vijaya Kumar, an engineer, has also joined the team and together the brothers are trying to identify issues pertaining to the farming community and find viable solutions. The team also has Agriculture graduates who visit the farms, and along with farmers, inspect crops and identify pests and issues that affect the crops and provide them solutions. “As our next step, we are now looking at marketing of agricultural produce from these farmers, where again, the cost will be a win-win for farmers and consumers,” he says, adding that “the idea is to improve the income of the farmer who toils in his field. Take for example, a situation where the farmer sells his brinjal for Rs. 8 a kilo to the trader. By the time it reaches the consumer, its cost escalates to Rs. 34. Our mission is to reduce this supply chain.” The farmers in Keerapalayam and Pattukottai regions had sought the help of Vasanth during the lockdown to sell their coconut harvest. “These farmers were worst hit during the Gaja cyclone a few years ago and after much hardship, they are now ready with their fresh harvest. It was when we were trying to find a way to help them, that we decided to launch an online portal with the concept of farm-to-table, where customers in Chennai can directly source products from farmers,” he explains. Vasanth says that he will be transporting 5,000 coconuts per week from Keerapalayam and offers them at Rs. 200 for 10, and they will be home delivered. Currently, www.farmerstores.com has put on sale cashews, rice, cold-pressed oils and coconuts. Products are sold in bulk packages as it is easier for the farmers to pack them that way. While cashews are sold in kilograms, rice is packed in 25 kilogram bags. Oils such as gingelly, coconut and groundnut, are sold in one-litre pet bottles.  For details, log on to www.farmerstores.com. 9840281787||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hands-that-sow/article31966895.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Pages of history on sale||London-based dealer of rare books, Peter Harrington, has unveiled its first India-specific collection through a digital catalogue called ‘The Indian Subcontinent: From the 18th to the 20th Century’. The collection has 40 items including books, original manuscripts and artworks, and offers a glimpse into pre-Independent India. It is available to view on peterharrington.co.uk and can be purchased at £850 upwards. Some of the illustrated works include The Sikhs and Afghans (1846), Jai Hind – The diary of a rebel daughter of India with the Rani of Jhansi regiment (1945), lithographic plates of the Nilgiris including views of Ooty by Humphrey Jervis and ‘Old Mumbai’ by AH Walker, which is a late 19th-Century watercolour panorama of Bombay harbour. The collection also includes The Adi Granth , or Holy Scriptures of the Sikhs by Ernest Trumpp — the first translation into English of the Sikh holy texts. In an e-mail interview about their first India-centric collection, Pom Harrington, owner of Peter Harrington, says, “In the last six months, we have been lucky to acquire some really special items which, in a way, warranted the curation of a dedicated collection, with several rare books on Sikh and Sikhism, accounts of the Punjab royal courts, military reminisces and finely illustrated accounts of hunting tours and Indian field sports.” Sourcing rare titles, manuscripts and illustrations has been an ongoing process at the firm, which was established in 1969. The books currently on sale are original editions, Pom says, adding that while the firm accepts books only if they are in good condition, they do have an in-house conservation department to carry out “minor, necessary repairs” and place the books in specialised boxes that protect the books from moisture, sunlight and accidental damage. The website has 200 more titles on India: “We tend to see collectors interested in this region come to us not just from India, but from the wider diaspora based in the UK and beyond, as well as British collectors who are interested in this period of colonial history. Institutional buyers such as museums are also always an interesting prospect,” he adds.  Off the catalogue   Letters written in a Mahratta Camp during 1809 by Thomas Duer Broughton  Reise in Ostindien , an illustrated account of a hunting tour through the Far East by Manó Andrássy   The Life of Robert Lord Clive, Baron Plassey by Charles Caraccioli  The History of Cholera in India from 1862 to 1881 by Henry Walter Bellew||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pages-of-history-on-sale/article31966922.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Songs of the hunted||A Malayalam rap video has crossed more than 3 lakh views since it was released on YouTube on June 13, a staggering number for a débutante. ‘Voice of Voiceless’  is a straight from the heart act by rapper Vedan. His lyrics are intensely personal, he says. “My art is my politics. It is the politics of caste, class and colour.” Vedan, his stage name, is his childhood moniker, something that has stuck with him. “It means hunter. I sing of the hunted and the hunter and I felt this name suited me,” he says. As he raps about the landless and the voiceless, his words sharp as a scalpel, Vedan wants the world to sit up and take note. “A spark is all that is needed…,” he says, over phone from Thrissur. “My music is a deep reflection of where I come from.” Vedan dropped out of mainstream education after Class XII and did odd jobs, as he needed to keep his family afloat. Born and raised in a colony behind the Thrissur Railway Station, he says life was far from perfect. Vedan’s art is drawn from this setting, from a place which “everyone has forgotten”. He says, “This place, where I lived, has only about 10-15 families. There are children here. Even basic facilities don’t reach them. It is like they don’t exist…like they don’t matter.” The 25-year-old rapper was introduced to the art when he was working as a studio boy in Thiruvananthapuram. He found himself in a creative environment, which stirred his own need for self-expression through words. He then discovered American rap sensation Tupac Shakur, “who spoke about reality the way it should be — without mincing words”. Though the song was born from a moment of inspiration, the album took time to materialise. Funds were a problem. With the help of friends and partly through crowdfunding, the video was produced and released to a response he did not expect. “The things I speak of have been relevant at all times. Discrimination has always been happening. It isn’t a fad,” he says. The video was shot in his colony and the faces that feature in the video are of the children who live there. He raps in Tamil too, a language that has always charmed him. “Tamil is one of the most beautiful languages I have heard. I am in love with it. It has an innate rhythm.” Though he scribbles lines in Tamil, a full blown album is yet to take shape. Vedan dabbles in art, works as a daily wage labourer, writes and travels. Films have been a long-time passion and he will be rapping for two Malayalam films, one of them being Anil Radhakrishna Menon’s. Someday, he hopes to do his own film. Meanwhile, he says “I will continue to make my art my way.” ’Voice of Voiceless’,  directed by Hrithwik Sasikumar and with music by Akhil Ramachandran, is on YouTube||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/songs-of-the-hunted/article31966892.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Know your English||It all began with a Facebook post that asked, ‘English Theriyuma ?’ (Do you know English?). Chennai-based Aarti Madhusudan, who volunteers with non-profits, put it up last week, asking for volunteers to speak for an hour in English once a week with a child. Before she knew it, it snowballed into a movement. “This was for Class X students of a Government school in Kotturpuram,” says Aarti. “The headmistress is a friend and I’d done some volunteering for them earlier. She said that since there were no exams this year, it would do them good to stay in touch and be familiar with English.” Initially, she wanted 19 women and 32 men to volunteer, but now, has had 540 people, and counting. Aarti explains that the idea is to speak with a student in English for one hour once a week, for 15 weeks. “Neha Kotecha, a volunteer from the US, and I came up with a curriculum for this conversation based on common sense,” she explains. They have a list of questions, such as ‘What did you have for lunch today?’ that the volunteer will ask the child. “We hope that the child gradually becomes comfortable to ask doubts and loses the fear he/she may have for English.” The advantage of facilitating this over phone, she feels, is that “anonymity leads to lack of inhibition”. K Maheshwari Kalpana, the headmistress of the Corporation-managed Chennai High School, whose students form the crux of this initiative, feels that they have “responded beautifully”. “I have seen how the ability to speak in English boosts their confidence and gives them the strength to ask questions,” she says. The school she heads, has long been focussing on community development and hosts parenting workshops. During lockdown, Kalpana says that teachers are encouraged to call their wards over the phone to enquire about them. “Simple things such as asking them if they have had lunch, matters a lot for they will feel that their teachers are there for them,” she adds. The going, however, is not always smooth. Aarti says that for a child, access to a mobile phone is not easy. “Their parents might be working and there could be just one phone at home,” she points out. So, calls are scheduled in the evenings, and volunteers are informed to not expect the child to answer the phone immediately. What started as an exercise to help Class X students become comfortable with English, has now grown to include students covered by several NGOs. “Ultimately, this will be an eye-opener for the volunteers; they will realise how much all of us are taking for granted in life,” feels Aarti. P Ashwath, a volunteer who interacted with a Class VII student, cannot stop talking about how enthusiastic the child was. “I started off by asking him to introduce himself. He told me all about the kind of books he reads, described his day…all I had to do was correct his grammar wherever needed,” he says. “After the call, he sent me a WhatsApp message,” says Ashwath. It read ‘Hi anna,’ and had a photo attachment of an art work he had done.”  Word power  ‘Strength’ is one of the longest monosyllabic words of the English language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/know-your-english/article31966904.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Koothu comes home||There was new energy about Mu Harikrishnan’s terrace. In the village of Yervadi near Salem that evening, over half a dozen shadow puppetry artisans and musicians moved about busily, giving final touches to their stage. They had worked on this for two days. Leather puppets were dusted — they had been wasting away for three months due to the lockdown — and lights were set up. Players of instruments such as mugaveenai , mridangam , harmonium, and kai thalam took their places, and the legendary ‘Ammapettai’ Ganesan, the soothradhari who manoeuvers the strings and is the voice of the lead characters, took his position. At 6 pm sharp on June 21, they went live on Facebook for the first time ever. “We had over 600 people viewing the show,” says Harikrishnan, who put it all together. The 46-year-old, who has been organising therukoothu , thorpaavai koothu and marapaavai koothu (street theatre, shadow and string puppetry) shows for 15 years in Tamil Nadu, had put out an invite on social media a week ahead, announcing the show. He also included a clause that said that those interested can donate Rs. 100 per head. “Around 40 people sent us donations,” points out Harikrishnan, adding that he was happy that he was able to pay at least something to the artisans; every bit of encouragement is precious in these times. Streets to screens Harikrishnan is from a family of street theatre artistes — his father was into the art and so was his grandfather. “The past few months have been tough on us. We belong to the crowds — temple festivals, funerals and other events where people gather — for whom we perform koothu, sometimes for eight hours at a stretch.” With the lockdown forcing his audience to stay indoors, Harikrishnan decided that they needed to find a way to take shows to them. “We have no choice but to adapt; the situation is such,” he says. While Harikrishnan wanted to find an alternative source of income for koothu artistes, he also wanted to make sure that the art form was constantly in public view. “This is important for the language as well as the arts. Only if they are in use at all times, will they survive in the long run,” he explains. “Whether there is famine or war, art should continue to do its job. We’ve had some great literature during some of our worst wars.” Their shows are based on the Ramayana and the Mahabharata . For their first Facebook live, they chose to do ‘Hanuman Thoodhu’, in which Hanuman goes to meet Sita. The content, explains Harikrishnan, had to be tweaked for the online space, and cut down to one hour. Among the best things the experience gave them, are the many perks that come with technology. For the first time, 64-year-old ‘Ammapettai’ Ganesan, who has been performing for more than 50 years, was able to hear his voice clearly during and after the show. “Usually, while koothu is on, the performers hardly hear their own singing. There’s a lot of crowd and disturbance,” explains Harikrishnan. But now, he was able to record and playback Ganesan his performance. “He was thrilled,” he adds. Harikrishnan is busy planning a traditional string puppet show now. He realises that getting the artistes to gather on his terrace — they are spread in various villages in and around Salem — and convincing them to do short formats, is a mammoth task. “This is what I thought when I planned our first show,” he says. “It was not easy. We made mistakes; tempers ran high; we even got into fist fights, shirts were torn…” he chuckles. “But in the end, we did it.”  Harikrishnan plans to stream shows online every week from his terrace. For details, follow him on Facebook/Mu Harikrishnan, or for more details email manalveedu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/koothu-comes-home/article31967247.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Pages of history on sale||London-based dealer of rare books, Peter Harrington, has unveiled its first India-specific collection through a digital catalogue called ‘The Indian Subcontinent: From the 18th to the 20th Century’. The collection has 40 items including books, original manuscripts and artworks, and offers a glimpse into pre-Independent India. It is available to view on peterharrington.co.uk and can be purchased at £850 upwards. Some of the illustrated works include The Sikhs and Afghans (1846), Jai Hind – The diary of a rebel daughter of India with the Rani of Jhansi regiment (1945), lithographic plates of the Nilgiris including views of Ooty by Humphrey Jervis and ‘Old Mumbai’ by AH Walker, which is a late 19th-Century watercolour panorama of Bombay harbour. The collection also includes The Adi Granth , or Holy Scriptures of the Sikhs by Ernest Trumpp — the first translation into English of the Sikh holy texts. In an e-mail interview about their first India-centric collection, Pom Harrington, owner of Peter Harrington, says, “In the last six months, we have been lucky to acquire some really special items which, in a way, warranted the curation of a dedicated collection, with several rare books on Sikh and Sikhism, accounts of the Punjab royal courts, military reminisces and finely illustrated accounts of hunting tours and Indian field sports.” Sourcing rare titles, manuscripts and illustrations has been an ongoing process at the firm, which was established in 1969. The books currently on sale are original editions, Pom says, adding that while the firm accepts books only if they are in good condition, they do have an in-house conservation department to carry out “minor, necessary repairs” and place the books in specialised boxes that protect the books from moisture, sunlight and accidental damage. The website has 200 more titles on India: “We tend to see collectors interested in this region come to us not just from India, but from the wider diaspora based in the UK and beyond, as well as British collectors who are interested in this period of colonial history. Institutional buyers such as museums are also always an interesting prospect,” he adds.  Off the catalogue   Letters written in a Mahratta Camp during 1809 by Thomas Duer Broughton  Reise in Ostindien , an illustrated account of a hunting tour through the Far East by Manó Andrássy   The Life of Robert Lord Clive, Baron Plassey by Charles Caraccioli  The History of Cholera in India from 1862 to 1881 by Henry Walter Bellew||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pages-of-history-on-sale/article31967245.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||The missing routine||Even as many Delhiites settle into routines of working from home for an indefinite period, they remember their offices as spaces they derived energy and inspiration from. “When I think of my workplace, there are a few words that come to mind: structure, discipline, my space,” says Meenakshi Sharma, head of pastoral care at DPS International, Gurugram. She describes her room as being large enough for the 23 students of Class XII she teaches. With a board to pin up to-do lists, a cupboard, a plant, and a view of a corridor that sees the chaos and conviviality of students rushing or dawdling, Ms. Sharma says she thinks of her work spot as a place to connect with the children. A teacher of psychology, she feels that the physical act of dressing up and stepping over the threshold of one area and opening the door into another, helps her make a mental switch too. Of discipline and dividers It’s much the same for Pankaj Kamal, who, like Ms. Sharma, has been home since March. As the deputy manager, customer relations, at the Jaquar group, he has a client-facing role, one where he is responsible for showing people round the art-meets-expertise brand studio at the LEED-certified head office in Manesar. “I miss the routine – getting up, dressing up – there is a focus to the day,” he says. Because he was trained in the airlines industry, he believes it’s the little cues of going in to work – putting on a crisp shirt for instance – that automatically make him enter client-servicing mode. Both Ms. Sharma and Mr. Kamal today work from home, trying to adjust to a new reality, with the boundaries between a designated work area and home blurred. “It’s like teaching from space,” says Ms. Sharma, while Mr. Kamal, who is learning the ropes of showing off the brand studio online, says if he had been at work he would have been much more efficient, quickly connecting with people from different departments. “I am a people’s person,” he says, now finding ways of linking with people from other departments by opening conversations that involve online expertise. There’s nothing better than an office space for a person who draws his spark from daily dialogue with others, and nothing worse than being confined to a space without physical interaction, for an extrovert. “The human race is great at cribbing wherever we are,” says Ms. Sharma, wearing her psychologist’s hat, referring to the way most people grumble about hiccups at work: a commute, a problem with the air conditioning, a rule that may not allow you to eat at the desk. “I am realising today that even when I was rushing in the morning, I was able to manage my own needs and time with my children much better compared to now when I am sitting at home,” she says.  The office as home When chef Veena Arora, who heads the Spice Route kitchen at The Imperial, was told that they weren’t going to work from the next day, she says, “It felt like hell,” in an unintentional hat tip to the Gordon Ramsay reality show. “I have never taken more than 10 days off in my 25 years at the hotel,” she says. While she does have an office, her favourite spot is the kitchen. “It’s like my own house. Or I sit in the restaurant with the service team. If you feel you have ownership, you love to work in a place.” Confined to her own kitchen and garden now, she’s experimenting with sprouts so she doesn’t have to source them, growing herbs so she can replicate the process at the hotel, to cut costs when operations begin. She’s had all the time in the world to think, and she wonders aloud if women are more attached to a space than men. Ms. Sharma too thinks there’s a gender role in play, along with personality, but not in terms of attachment to the space. “I do tend to get distracted faster, which is why I need the discipline of the space. But if I were a man, I might have been able to cut off because of the gender roles we have in society.” The clink of a spoon in the dining room, the call of a child, the ringing of a doorbell – most women are more geared to registering and reacting to these if they are at home. She articulates what Anagat Pareek lives out. As senior vice-president, cybersecurity, Paytm, who works in one of the company’s Noida offices, he says while he misses the vibrance, buzz, and a shared coffee or joke of the open office, he has been able to get a great deal done from home, often working longer hours than if he were in office. “I am at my desk at 10 (a.m.), meetings start on time, and the room is closed because I am on calls almost all day,” he says. He walks out to take a break but he doesn’t feel the blurring of boundaries. Given a choice, when offices open up completely, he feels some amount of flexibility would be nice, with a few days spent at home and some at the workplace. He also feels for new employees to settle in and for older hands to form a bond with them, there’s nothing quite like the office. Back out there Matina Wu, who runs a salon by that name in Malviya Nagar, is back at work after two and a half months. “When I am here, I feel I’m an artist and this is a studio,” says Ms. Wu, of her recently renovated space. She talks about the challenge with every hair type and the fact that when people come to her, they are often looking for a change – not just by way of a cut, but sometimes to mirror a life change. “I missed my clients; they are close to me. I missed the conversations with them. The haircut would happen during the conversations. I missed the touch, the chair that I would see a new person sit in every day,” she says. She would see up to 25 people in a day in pre-COVID-19 times. Today, she sees five to seven because people are fearful of going to a salon and also because Ms. Wu is trying to keep numbers down so there is no overcrowding. There’s more time now to dwell on each person. “It gives me great joy,” she says, a sentiment that chef Arora also talks of when people applaud the food she and her team make. At the opposite end of the spectrum is Rafi Ahmad Siddiqi, community and media manager for Gram Vaani, a participatory radio network, where his main job involves connecting with the programme team, comprising volunteers from the community, to gauge the pulse of factory workers. Mr. Siddiqi used to go to the office at Gurugram just once a week. In a typical start-up culture mode, the open-plan office has no cabins and no fixed seats, and for him the office is just a space to file reports and meet colleagues when needed. Though the office is shut now, his work in the field is busier than ever. “Maybe once a quarter it will be nice to meet all my colleagues,” he says, clearly not rooted to the space, talking more about the volunteers he trains, and the programming he and his team do. He also finds it convenient to work from home when possible, since he and his wife –who works in healthcare – have a young child. While Mr. Siddiqi’s ability to move around Delhi-NCR, unencumbered by punch-in times and heavy laptops, sets him free from office protocol, the physical workspace is what gives Ms. Wu her sense of freedom. “I am a complete workaholic. I can’t sit at home and bake a cake. To me my space symbolises the freedom to earn my own money, to be an entrepreneur, to be an independent artist.” Though she comes from a family of hairstylists, the salon represents her hard work and the fact that she’s achieved success all on her own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-missing-routine/article31967242.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The song of the Indian Silverbill||Living in one of the most concretised areas in the city, I jump with excitement and and throw societal norms to the wind, when it comes to new bird sightings. Some years ago, I caught a pair of birds nesting in a bougainvillea shrub. As I peered through my binoculars into the bush that was inside the gate of a house, a lady came out to enquire what I was doing, leaving me to explain what I was doing. If I were a half decent birdwatcher then as I am today, I wouldn’t have needed the binoculars at all. Judging by the general jizz or giss (a term used by birdwatchers to have an opinion on the identity of a bird by its overall size, shape, colour, flight), I would have identified the bird as the Indian Silverbill, with its characteristic triangular stubby silver beak. The Indian Silverbill ( Euodice malabarica ), a sparrow-like bird but much plainer in appearance, is a widespread resident in the Indian Subcontinent, except in certain areas of the North-West and North-East India and the Himalayas, an observation made by T.C. Jerdon in his book Birds of India , published as early as 1863. The genus Euodice is derived from the Greek words eu meaning good and odikos meaning musical, singing. The males and females look very similar in appearance with fawn-brown upperparts, a whitish face, a long pointed black tail and white rump. The shape of the beak says a lot about a bird’s diet. A passerine (perching) bird, its beak is uniquely shaped to crush seeds and grains. However, parents feed their young ones with insects to meet protein requirements. In the heart of urban settlements, you will come across a small flock feeding on seeds, grains, and sometimes small berries, however, on the outskirts of the city, they are often seen eating seeds while perched on tall grasses. As a bird with a sweet repeated flight call of chir-rup , the Indian Silverbill often goes unnoticed due to its small size and soft voice. Through the 1800s and 1900s, it was tamed to be kept as a pet, like many sweet-sounding birds were at the time. T.C. Jerdon talks of a unique observation made by Francis Buchanan Hamilton, a Scottish physician and significant contributor as a geographer, zoologist, and botanist while living in India between 1794-1815. He said these birds were particularly attached to their mates, as when one was let go, instead of flying away, they would come back and sit next to their mates. While this monogamous behaviour was seen in the cities, it hasn’t been recorded a lot in the wild. I’ve often observed pairs feeding together on tall grasses and also preening each other as a sign of affection. Dry agricultural fields, grasslands and thorn scrubs are some preferred habitats for this bird, with bushes, hedgerows and low trees being their typical hangouts. The nest they build is large, loosely constructed with grass and in cities may even be in crevices of machines and houses. Considering their flocking behaviour, sometimes two or more pairs are observed building the nest together, which hints at community nesting behaviour to some extent. They have also been seen taking over weaver bird nests, as weavers usually abandon the construction once nesting is complete. Sadly, urbanization has cast out a number of bird species from our cities. No matter how much they try and adapt, human-led disturbances and other generalist bird species such as crow and mynah, adapt better to city life. The birds in the bougainvillea stayed for a couple of months, feeding their juveniles and teaching them how to fly, soon disappearing, never to be sighted again near home. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-song-of-the-indian-silverbill/article31967250.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Have not heard of Pinjra Tod, says accused in Delhi riots case||Shahrukh Khan, a 24-year-old auto mechanic who has been charged with sections of rioting and murder, and who lost complete vision in one eye and 90% in the other during the north-east Delhi riots in February, said he hasn’t heard of Devangana Kalita or Natasha Narwal, Pinjra Tod activists whose names the police say was in his confession statement. In a case connected to the Jafrabad riots — in which an 18-year-old boy, Amaan, was killed — the police arrested 12 people, out of which 10, including Shahrukh, were chargesheeted by the Delhi police on June 2. The police submitted that in his confession, Shahrukh named Mohammed Faizan, Natasha, Devangana, Suhasini, Gul and others to be involved in the incident. The police had also arrested Devangana and Natasha in connection with the case. “I haven’t heard their names,” said Shahrukh, when The Hindu caught up with him at his jhuggi in New Seelampur. Sitting next to him was his mother Jaheda (54), holding his hand. During the riots, bullet shards hit Shahrukh in the eyes and he lost complete vision in one eye and 90% in another. He claimed that men in uniform were firing from the opposite side. Recalling the day, Shahrukh said it was his weekly off and in the afternoon, he went outside. “I started walking, saw a funeral procession and started walking with them. I reached Jafrabad, in the vicinity of a school. When stone-pelting started from the opposite side and many others from our side retaliated, I too joined in,” he said. Within minutes, Shahrukh was hit by bullet shards and he fell on the road, after which he was first rushed by locals to a hospital nearby and next to Lok Nayak Hospital. From there he was referred to Guru Nanak Eye Centre, where he was treated for 4-5 days. In the first week of March, Shahrukh’s father Ayaz said that they received a call from a ‘government office’ stating that they should submit compensation papers in the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s office as Shahrukh was injured. They decided to visit the Jafrabad police station on March 5 to register a first information report to be attached with the compensation papers. Shahrukh said that he and his mother went to the police station where they were first asked to wait. “After a few hours, they told me that I was involved in rioting and said there was a video in which I could be seen,” he said. In the chargesheet, the police have stated that Shahrukh can be seen with the aggressive crowd holding a stone and hurling it. The police then told the family that Shahrukh – who was still nursing his wounds – would be arrested and produced before the court the next day. Mr. Ayaz alleged that policemen demanded and took Rs. 10,000 from them for not beating Shahrukh during questioning. “Even then, they punched me in the stomach twice. By then, another policeman came and stopped them saying they shouldn’t beat me because I am blind,” claimed Shahrukh. Signed statement He also said that the police made him sign a statement which he couldn’t read because his vision was impaired [Shahrukh has studied up to Class 6]; his mother, who was with him, is illiterate. “We don’t know what they wrote in it,” he said. On March 6, he was produced before the court in presence of his family and advocate where the judge granted him bail on humanitarian grounds. Ever since, Shahrukh has been home. “His life is a struggle now. He won’t be able to work or even get married. I have to take him to the public toilet nearby... he fell in the drain once when he tried to go alone,” said Ms. Jaheda. Plan to move NHRC “No police officer has the power to shoot an unarmed person and that too from a close distance. And against this act, we are even planning to move the National Human Rights Commission,” Shahrukh’s advocate Himalaya Gupta said. “I don’t know why I went that day. If it wasn’t a weekly off, I would have been at work and nothing would have happened,” said Shahrukh.  His life is a struggle now. He won’t be able to work or even get married. I have to take him to the public toilet nearby... he fell in the drain once when he tried to go alone Jaheda Shahrukh Khan’s mother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-not-heard-of-pinjra-tod-says-accused-in-delhi-riots-case/article31967244.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Unpredictability of virus leaves no room for complacency: CM||The COVID-19 situation in the Capital seems to have improved over the past few days, but given the unpredictability factor, there is no room for complacency, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday. Mr. Kejriwal said that the situation was not “as terrible as it seemed” a month ago. “However, precautions still need to be taken even as sustainable efforts of all agencies and stakeholders had resulted in only 26,000 active cases in Delhi against the earlier prediction of 60,000 cases by June 30,” he said. “Around a month ago, when the lockdown was lifted in Delhi, there was a sudden surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city. We had anticipated the rise, but there was an unexpected increase. During that time, the website created by the national experts for the Central government used to provide us with future projections of the number of cases in the country after one-two months,” Mr. Kejriwal said. According to the website, the Delhi government’s own projections showed that by June 30 there would be around 1 lakh cases in the city, out of which 60,000 would be active and around 15,000 hospital beds would be needed. However, there were only 26,000 active cases in Delhi, which is one-third of the predicted figure. Mr. Kejriwal said that around 250 new patients were being admitted to hospitals every day earlier. “Till Wednesday morning, there were 5,800 COVID-19 patients in all the hospitals in Delhi. One week ago, there were 6,250 patients, which means there has been a dip of 450. A month ago, around 38% of patients had recovered and today, the recovery rate is 66%. Of 87,000 COVID-19 patients, 58,000 have recovered,” he added. “On June 23, there were 3,950 new cases in Delhi and on Tuesday there were 2,200 new cases. This means that the number of new cases being recorded daily has also seen a dip. It has been around 2,000 for the last 3-4,” he noted. The death rate in Delhi has also decreased, he said, adding that the city has been recording around 60-65 deaths now as against 125 earlier. “Initially, reports of 31 out of 100 people, who were tested, would come positive, but this number has come down to 13 now.” “This shows that the situation is under control now. This is the result of efforts put in by the people of the city... but we still need to be cautious. The nature of this virus is unpredictable, nobody knows what it may bring tomorrow. It is possible that cases increase in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unpredictability-of-virus-leaves-no-room-for-complacency-cm/article31967278.ece
02 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Anti-CAA case: 2 shops sealed in Lucknow||“My mind is not working anymore. They have snatched my rozi-roti [source of livelihood],” said a distraught Mahenoor Chaudhary, whose scrap store in Lucknow was sealed by the administration under its drive to recover the damages to public and private property during last December’s protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In a first such step in the case, the Lucknow administration had sealed two shops on Tuesday, the other being a garment store whose assistant manager, Dharamvir Singh, is among the accused. “I had gone home for lunch. When I returned, they had sealed the shop,” said Mr. Chaudhary. Notices to 57 persons The two men are among the 13 accused in the Hasanganj violence case in which the administration had issued recovery notices of Rs. 21.76 lakh. The Lucknow administration had issued notices to 57 persons, spread over four police stations, amounting to Rs. 1.56 crore. Their names, photos and addresses were also displayed on hoardings erected across the city in a bid to “name and shame” them. Shambu Sharan, tehsildar, Lucknow, said the two shops were sealed in continuation of the recovery certificates issued by the ADM Trans-Gomti court against the violence on December 19, 2019. Before sealing the shops, Mr. Sharan said, the accused were issued notices and given time to pay up. Mr. Chaudhary said he was falsely implicated in the case. “I had nothing to do with the incident or the protest. I was returning home from my shop [on December 19] when a police inspector was making videos of people on the road after the violence. I didn’t have any stone or lathi in my hand in the photograph [shown by the police in the ADM court] nor was I raising slogans,” he said. Mr. Chaudhary was picked up by the police from his shop five days later. Even before the lockdown, Mr. Chaudhary struggled to make ends meet and educate his three children, aged 10, 13 and 15. The sealing of the shop has thrown his life out of gear. In a February 13 order, seen by The Hindu , the ADM court had rejected Mr. Chaudhary’s argument that he was implicated simply because he lived in the area. The police alleged that Mr. Chaudhary was identified at the protest site in Khadra through photographs and videos, but did not pinpoint his alleged role. The sealing of the shops has alarmed the other accused in the case, including retired IPS officer S.R. Darapuri, who the police alleged was a “catalyst” in the protests. On June 12, Mr. Darapuri was issued a demand notice by the administration, asking him to pay up Rs. 64.37 lakh within seven days or face punitive action under the U.P. Revenue Code 2006, which could mean his arrest or seizure of property. “This is all illegal activity [recovery] to create terror,” the septuagenarian said.  HC notice to State govt. On pleas filed by Mr. Darapuri and senior lawyer Mohammad Shoaib, the Allahabad High Court on June 17 issued a notice to the State government, which sought 10 days to respond. The matter is listed for the second week of July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/anti-caa-case-2-shops-sealed-in-lucknow/article31967287.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 2,442 new cases; boost in testing||A total of 2,442 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 89,802, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The death toll has increased to 2,803 after 61 more deaths were reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 59,992 people have recovered and there are 27,007 active cases. There are 437 containment zones in the city as on Wednesday, the bulletin said. Of the 15,242 beds for COVID-19 treatment in hospitals, 9,350 beds were vacant on Wednesday.  Over 19,000 tests In the last 24 hours, as many as 9,913 RT-PCR tests and 10,043 rapid antigen tests have been conducted. The increase in testing has pushed the number of tests per million to 29,037 — one of the highest in the country. A total of 5,51,708 tests have been done in the city so far. Nearly 16,703 people who were tested positive are currently under home isolation. “Deputy CM Manish Sisodia held a meeting to review the status of COVID-19 in NCT of Delhi,” the bulletin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-sees-2442-new-cases-boost-in-testing/article31967281.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Gallantry award-winning police inspector succumbs to COVID-19||A 49-year-old police inspector posted with the Special Cell has died due to COVID-19 at a private hospital in south Delhi, the police said on Wednesday. Inspector Sanjeev Kumar Yadav was on ventilator support since his condition was critical and passed away in the early hours of Wednesday at Max Hospital in Saket, they said. He had complained of fever and breathlessness following which he was tested for the virus. When his result came as positive, he was admitted to Max Hospital around 15 days ago, the police said. He also underwent plasma therapy, a senior police officer said. According to the police, Mr. Yadav was posted with the South-Western range of the Special Cell and received the police medal for gallantry this year for arresting a dreaded criminal on May 2, 2018. Stellar credentials During his tenure as inspector with the Special Cell, Mr. Yadav came face-to-face with armed criminals on no less than 13 occasions, each of which involved an exchange of fire. However, owing to his courage, intelligence and professionalism, the officer ensured that all his team members remained safe while the criminals were apprehended, the police said in a statement. Mr. Yadav was also a recipient of 25 commendation rolls, 13 commendation certificates and 26 commendation cards issued by Delhi Police. The last rites of Mr. Yadav were held with State honours at the Sarai Kale Khan crematorium. He hailed from Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan and is survived by his wife and two children. . Taking to Twitter, the Special Cell offered their condolences. “Special Cell stands in solidarity with the family and friends of our brave colleague Inspector Sanjeev Yadav, PMG, who has entered another world leaving behind a rich legacy... As we mourn the death of our brother-in-arms, we are inspired to reaffirm our oath to the Constitution and to the citizens of this great nation..[sic],” the Special Cell tweeted. Head constable dies Meanwhile, a head constable, Bheer Singh (47), posted with PCR unit also died of COVID-19 on Tuesday during the course of treatment, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gallantry-award-winning-police-inspector-succumbs-to-covid-19/article31967282.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi-Centre tussle over representing city police||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over the usual tussle between the Centre and the Delhi government over who will represent the Delhi police in the north-east Delhi riots cases.  Faisal Farooq bail plea Justice Suresh Kumar Kait asked a Central government counsel to show that he was appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor to represent the Delhi police in a bail plea related to Rajdhani Public School principal Faisal Farooq. The court also made it clear that if the counsel failed to show the appointment letter from the L-G, the interim order granting stay on the bail of Mr. Farooq will be lifted. The HC will hear the case again on Thursday. Mr. Farooq was arrested in connection with a case related to the Delhi riots and have been charged under sections ranging from 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) amongst others. The police have challenged the trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to Mr. Farooq on the ground that it was prima facie not established that he was present at the spot at the time of incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-centre-tussle-over-representing-city-police/article31967228.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Pinjra Tod member seeks headphones in Tihar jail||A member of Pinjra Tod group, who was arrested in a case related to the north-east Delhi violence, on Wednesday urged the Delhi High Court to direct the Tihar jail to provide her headphones to maintain privacy of the conversation between her and the counsel over videoconferencing. Video call facility JNU student Devangana Kalitha, who is in jail since May 23, also sought that the facility of videoconferencing be provided to her counsel twice a week for half an hour each, subject to the availability of the facilities and equitable use by other inmates. Justice Vibhu Bakhru was informed by her counsel that these issues were also raised by another woman member of Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) group Natasha Narwal and another Bench of the High Court has passed an order on it. The judge listed the matter for July 3, after Ms. Kalitha’s advocate Adit S. Pujari said the matter be deferred as the order passed in the other case has not been uploaded as yet. The court noted that the status report filed by the Tihar jail authorities indicate that most of the grievances of the accused have been redressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pinjra-tod-member-seeks-headphones-in-tihar-jail/article31967234.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Use of rapid antigen testing expanded to provide quick results, govt. tells HC||The Delhi government informed the High Court on Wednesday that it has expanded the use of rapid antigen testing at hospitals to ensure availability of results in quick time. The government also stated that prior COVID-19 test was not mandatory for admitting pregnant women in hospitals for in-patient interventions, including surgery and deliveries, and treatment would not be denied for want of test results in emergent situations. It said the test can be conducted simultaneously with the treatment and if the result is positive, the pregnant woman would ideally be transferred to a COVID-19 hospital. The government’s submissions came in response to a petition seeking that test results of pregnant women be given priority. The ICMR said it has issued guidelines for the management of pregnant women during the pandemic and there are no restrictions for testing them for COVID-l9 symptoms. The court will hear the case on July 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/use-of-rapid-antigen-testing-expanded-to-provide-quick-results-govt-tells-hc/article31967267.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal inspects COVID centre at CWG Village||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia on Wednesday visited the newly-established Covid Care Centre at the Commonwealth Games Village to take stock of preparations. The 500-bed centre will be attached to Lok Nayak Hospital. Mr. Kejriwal said NGO ‘Doctors For You’ was supporting the Delhi government in setting up the facility and added that many banquet halls are being acquired and “new centres like this one near Akshardham Temple will be established in the coming days”. “A massive expansion of bed capacity is underway in Delhi. There are separate wards for men and women, and there is stay-in facility for doctors and nurses at this centre,” said Mr. Kejriwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-inspects-covid-centre-at-cwg-village/article31967280.ece
02 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. to challenge HC decision on school fee||Punjab Education Minister Mr. Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday said the government will challenge the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court allowing private schools to collect tuition fee for the period of lockdown-curfew, following COVID-19 outbreak. “The Punjab government respects the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, but in the wake of adverse impact on the livelihood of the people and economic distress due to lockdown-curfew, the State government will appeal to reconsider its decision,” said Mr. Singla at a press conference here. “In the interest of all parties involved in the case such as parents, teachers, staff, school administrators and others, the Punjab government would take up by filling Letter Patents Appeal before a double Bench within next two or three days,” he said. The single Bench of Justice Nirmaljit Kaur had on June 30 in its order allowed private schools to collect tuition fee “irrespective of offering online classes” to students during the coronavirus lockdown period. The court also allowed schools to collect admission fee. The, court, though restrained schools from rising the fee for 2020-21 and directed them to adopt the fee structure on lines of 2019- 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-to-challenge-hc-decision-on-school-fee/article31967285.ece
02 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha police apologise to minor assault victim||The Odisha police on Wednesday apologised to a minor who was allegedly sexually assaulted by inspector-in-charge (IIC) of a police station in Sundargarh district. This is a rare instance of the State police tendering such a public apology. “Director General of Police Abhay has dismissed Ananda Chandra Majhi, former IIC of Birmitrapur Police Station, from service. His conduct was shameful. Our apologies to the young girl,” said the police in a tweet on Wednesday. The girl, aged 13, was subjected to sexual assault by several persons including the IIC of Biramitrapur police station, her stepfather and other two persons. A doctor was also accused of ‘illegally’ terminating her pregnancy. According to Shreebanta Jena, Sundargarh District Child Protection Officer, who had lodged a police complaint in Raiboga police station, the girl was found in a very poor condition in a shelter home during an inspection by District Collector Nikhil Pawan Kalyan. After the Collector ordered further treatment of the girl, her agony began tumbling out. She took names of her stepfather, two friends and ‘Bada Babu’ (IIC) of Biramitrapur police station who had sexually assaulted her at different times. “According to her version, the girl had gone to the police station to lodge a complaint about being sexually assaulted by her friends and that she was three months pregnant. Instead, she was sexually assaulted again by the police officer,” said Mr. Jena.  Crime Branch probe The DGP had on Tuesday ordered the Crime Branch to investigate into the incident and the probe has begun. The police inspector in question has since been absconding. A team of the BJP visited Sundargarh district and demanded a probe by a special investigation team.  The girl had gone to the police station to lodge a rape complaint but was assaulted by the inspector-in charge Shreebanta JenaChild Protection Officer, Sundargarh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-police-apologise-to-minor-assault-victim/article31967288.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priest apprehended for jumping quarantine||A priest, who had returned from the United States of America and was under mandatory quarantine at a hotel in Aerocity, fled from the facility on Monday and was apprehended on Tuesday, the police said. A senior police officer said that Pushpraj Kumar Chaturvedi returned to India on June 28 and checked into Redfox Hotel for a mandatory quarantine period of seven days, which was to end on July 5. However, he fled from the hotel the next day around 9.30 p.m. after which the hotel security informed the police and a case was registered at the IGI Airport police station. During investigation, police said that teams were formed and CCTV footage of Aerocity hotels and Mahipalpur Chowk were analysed. “Different teams had worked on different clues and subsequently, it was found that he had gone toward Gurugram. He was apprehended from the Mahipalpur chowk NH8 locality,” the police said. The officer said that Mr. Chaturvedi was produced before the court and after examining his health conditions, the court ordered to send him for home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/priest-apprehended-for-jumping-quarantine/article31967274.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||AAP leaders protest hike in fuel prices, detained||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday held a nationwide protest against hike in fuel prices. Senior leaders and volunteers gathered at the party’s HQ at ITO and walked towards the BJP HQ but were detained by the police. AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai slammed the police for detaining the “peaceful” protesters. “In the past 21 days, the Centre has been continuously increasing fuel prices across India. This is leading to price rise of essential commodities. Fuel prices should be rolled back immediately,” he said. “At present, excise duty on petrol is Rs. 32.98 per litre and on diesel Rs. 31.83 per litre. When the Modi government came to power in 2014, the excise duty was Rs. 9.48 per litre on petrol and Rs. 3.56 per litre on diesel,” Mr. Rai added. Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said the COVID-19 outbreak had devastated the nation as thousands have lost their jobs, and the BJP government has “ravaged their remaining savings” by increasing fuel prices. Reacting to the protest, BJP Delhi chief Adesh Gupta said that AAP violated social distancing norms during the protest, which can weaken the fight against COVID-19. “VAT on petrol and diesel was increased significantly during the lockdown by the Delhi government. VAT on petrol was increased from 27% to 30% and diesel was also increased from 16.75% to 30%,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-leaders-protest-hike-in-fuel-prices-detained/article31967229.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT tells DPCC to recover Rs. 4.5 lakh from dyeing unit||Following a plea alleging the operation of illegal dyeing units in a residential area in the city, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to recover an environmental compensation amounting to Rs. 4.5 lakh. A Bench headed by NGT chief Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel took note of a report furnished by the pollution control body and directed recovery of Environmental Damages Compensation (EDC) from the violating units. In its report, the DPCC had said, “During field visit, one unit was found engaged in the activity of jeans dyeing. As the unit was found operational and engaged in the activity of jeans dyeing in a non-conforming area, the unit was effectively closed on the spot by the team.” The pollution control body also informed the Tribunal that an environmental compensation had been imposed on the unit which it was yet to pay following which the NGT directed recovery of the same. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by Balbir and others who alleged that illegal jeans dyeing units were operational in the residential area of Adarsh Colony in Maujpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-tells-dpcc-to-recover-rs-45-lakh-from-dyeing-unit/article31967269.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP writes to Kejriwal on teachers’ salary||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demanding that the salary of guest teachers be disbursed immediately. He alleged that thousands of guest teachers and their families were facing difficulties due to non-payment of salary. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir and Vishwas Nagar MLA Om Prakash Sharma visited the Railway Coach isolation centre at Anand Vihar railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-writes-to-kejriwal-on-teachers-salary/article31967270.ece
02 July 2020||New Delhi,||Did not violate 5% quota for disabled: JNU||The Jawaharlal Nehru University has informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that it has not violated the 5% reservation for disabled students and was committed to providing it in all courses in the 2020-21 academic year. The university’s submission came in response to a petition filed by Javed Abidi Foundation, which works for the welfare of disabled persons claiming that JNU has kept less than 5% seats for disabled category in the academic session 2020-21. JNU denied the allegation saying it was providing reservation to PWD category students in almost all courses of its various centres and schools. The High Court has listed the case for hearing on July 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/did-not-violate-5-quota-for-disabled-jnu/article31967268.ece
02 July 2020||July 02 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID coach||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-coach/article31967273.ece
02 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘CM disowning figures given by his govt.’||Delhi Congress on Wednesday alleged that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was being irresponsible and reckless with his statements and observations regarding the pandemic in the Capital as he was disowning figures projected by his own government on the spread of pandemic. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that Mr. Kejriwal was trying to fool the people of Delhi with misleading figures as he himself was not sure which data to trust as the data available on the Delhi Corona App is inaccurate and confusing. Mr. Kumar also demanded that the Kejriwal government should provide Rs. 10,000 to each COVID-19 patient and family in the containment zones to tide over the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-disowning-figures-given-by-his-govt/article31967275.ece
02 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Murder of policemen: man shot dead||A man wanted in connection with the murder of two policemen was shot dead and his accomplice was arrested by the Sonipat Police in an encounter late on Tuesday night. The encounter took place less than 24 hours after the two policemen, constable Ravinder and Special Police Officer Kaptan, were found dead with stab wounds in Sonipat’s Baroda police station area. However, two Inspectors, an Assistant Sub-Inspector and a Head Constable sustained stab wounds during the encounter. They were taken to PGIMS Rohtak and are said to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/murder-of-policemen-man-shot-dead/article31967289.ece
02 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Guwahati records 1,400 cases in 8 days||A day after the State recorded the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said almost 1,400 people tested positive in Guwahati in eight days since June 24. The State had on Tuesday recorded 613 COVID-19 positive cases, the highest ever. Of these, 382 were from Guwahati, which has been under total lockdown from June 28 midnight. The 14-day lockdown ends July 12 but would be reviewed within a week for possible relaxations. “A total of 1,212 persons tested positive in Guwahati from June 24-30. If we add the 157 cases detected today, the number is close to 1,400,” Dr. Sarma told journalists on Wednesday. “The situation in Guwahati is critical and we are closely monitoring the situation,” he said, adding that the lockdown in the city has been stricter than the earlier restrictions. The Minister also said the State government has decided to follow the recommendations of the Indian Council for Medical Research for introducing a new testing model in Guwahati on July 3. The new model is expected to deliver test results within an hour unlike the 3-7 days the existing model takes. “The testing model named Q COVID-19 AG is a positive development for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/guwahati-records-1400-cases-in-8-days/article31967290.ece
