02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Provocative action’ by PLA again: MEA||Chinese troops engaged in “provocative action” along the disputed boundary in Ladakh once again on August 31, even as Commanders of the two sides were in discussion to de-escalate the situation, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Tuesday. As Brigadier-level talks continued for the second day in Chushul, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a high-level meeting to review the ground situation. “We have taken up the matter of recent provocative and aggressive actions with the Chinese side through both diplomatic and military channels and have urged them to discipline and control their front line troops from undertaking such provocative actions,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in response to a query. Due to the timely defensive action, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, he stated. A defence source said that on August 31, PLA troops came closer to the posts dominated by the Indian Army but “they were dissuaded”.   Mr. Srivastava said the Foreign Ministers and Special Representatives had agreed that the situation should be handled in a responsible manner and either side should not take any provocative action or escalate matters. The Chinese side violated this understanding and engaged in “provocative military manoeuvres” in the late night of August 29 and 30 in an attempt to change the status quo in the south bank area of Pangong Lake. The Indian Army took “appropriate defensive measures” to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity”. The actions and behaviour of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC had been in clear violation of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries, the spokesperson noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/provocative-action-by-pla-again-mea/article32500570.ece
02 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Udupi anglers land a surprise catch — a Panchaloha idol||A group of anglers that was fishing in the Swarna in Udupi district landed a surprise catch, a Panchaloha (alloy of five metals) idol, in the Hiriyadka Police limits on Monday evening. The idol is said to be that of Lord Gopalakrishna. Athradi Dinesh Poojari and his friends were angling at Pareeka Hole, as the Swarna is called in and around Pareeka village near Athradi, when they landed the surprise catch. The idol was said to be lying beneath the Bellampalli bridge built across the river. Immediately after recovering the idol, the team informed the Hiriyadka Police who then took it into their possession. Sub-Inspector of Police Sudhakar Thonse told The Hindu that the police have handed over the idol, weighing about 25 kg, to the Udupi Tahsildar, who, in turn, arranged for its safe custody at the government treasury. Mr. Thonse said that a message was sent to all police stations in the district regarding the discovery of the idol. However, no case of idol theft was reported in any police station, he said. The idol is yet to subjected to an examination, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-anglers-land-a-surprise-catch-a-panchaloha-idol/article32500834.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC grants bail to Devangana Kalita||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots cases, noting that police had failed to present any material showing she instigated women of a particular community or gave hate speech. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also ordered Ms. Kalita not to “directly or indirectly influence any witness or tamper with evidence”. She has been asked not to leave the country without permission of the trial court. Ms. Kalita has been granted bail in connection with an FIR registered on February 26, 2020 at Jafrabad police station. She is facing four different FIRs connected to the anti-CAA protests in Jafrabad, north-east Delhi riots and violence in Daryaganj during a protest last year. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Ms. Kalita, informed the High Court that she had already secured bail in two of the FIRs. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, representing the Delhi police, argued that Ms. Kalita had emerged as one of the main conspirators in the FIR. She, with an intention to flare communal passion and instigate a section of people to engage in rioting, did all the preparatory work such as mobilising crowds and sustaining the mob at the protest site, the ASG argued. ‘Fundamental right’ “I have gone through the inner case diary produced in a sealed cover, along with the pen drive, and found that her presence is seen in peaceful agitation, which is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution,” Justice Kait said. “There is no such evidence which establishes that the alleged offence has taken place on the act done by the petitioner [Ms. Kalita],” the High Court observed. The Delhi police have also invoked sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case against Ms. Kalita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-devangana-kalita/article32500764.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 1,140 new cases, 4 deaths||Kerala reported 1,140 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. The State’s cumulative case burden now stands at 76,525 cases. With the total number of recoveries having reached 53,649, the number of active cases now is 22,512. The number of recoveries reported on Tuesday exceeded the number of fresh cases at 2,111. The new cases reported in the State in the past two days have been much lower than the normal case graph in the past few weeks. This is attributed to the general lull in activities during the Onam holiday season, which also seems to have affected sample testing activities. While 30,000 to 40,000 samples are sent for testing daily on regular days, these past two days, the samples being tested have been less than 20,000. The samples tested in the past 24 hours was only 14,137, which is reflected in the lower case tally on Tuesday. The State’s COVID toll is nearing 300 and stood at 298 on Tuesday, with the Health Department confirming four more deaths as due to the viral infection - one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam and two from Kasaragod. Thiruvananthapuram reported 227 cases, Malappuram 191, Ernakulam 161, Kozhikode 155, Thrissur 133, Kannur 77, Kottayam 62, Palakkad 42, Alappuzha 32, Kollam 25, Kasaragod 15, Pathanamthitta 12, and Wayanad 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-1140-new-cases-4-deaths/article32500910.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State’s COVID reproduction rate at 1.09||Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy has said that the COVID reproduction rate (RT), a key indicator of the average number of people infected by an infectious person, in the State was at 1.09 for the cases reported in the last week of August that saw over 72,000 infections. The RT number that indicates the pace of virus spread should ideally be less than one. Briefing the media on the COVID outbreak status in the State, Dr. Reddy said the reproduction rate was highest in Krishna district at 1.41 and it was followed by Srikakulam at 1.23, Chitoor at 0.98 and East Godavari at 0.85. Dr. Reddy said the doubling rate of cases in the State was 30 days, and it was higher in Prakasam at 18.5 days and Nellore at 20.4 days. Kurnool’s doubling rate was 42 days, he said. Dr. Reddy said that  the surge in COVID infections was now being witnessed in Prakasam and Nellore districts, which saw an increase of 79% and 47% in cases in the recent fortnight (August 17 to 31) in comparison to the previous fortnight (August 3 to 16). He said the recent fortnight saw an increase of 6.26% cases in the State while five districts of Anantapur, Guntur, Krishna, Kurnool and Vizianagaram saw a downward trend in the cases. After Prakasam and Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari saw a 21% increase in cases each. East Godavari saw 1% rise in the number of cases, he said. Dr. Reddy said that Guntur saw a significant downfall in the number of deaths. It is followed by Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, but Nellore saw a 60% rise in deaths.  During the same week (August 23 to 29), 44% of the infections were reported in urban areas and 56% were reported in rural areas indicating that prevalence of the disease was more in rural areas, he said. He said sero-surveillance was conducted in four districts, and in next week the remaining would be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-covid-reproduction-rate-at-109/article32500559.ece
02 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Release Kafeel Khan immediately, Allahabad HC orders U.P. govt.||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday set aside the National Security Act order passed against Gorakhpur doctor Kafeel Khan, terming it illegal, and directed the Uttar Pradesh government to forthwith release him from jail. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh, hearing a habeas corpus writ filed by Dr. Khan’s mother, also declared the extension of the period of his detention under the NSA as “illegal”. The BJP government had in February slapped the NSA on Dr. Khan for allegedly making inflammatory and provocative comments during a speech by him against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Aligarh Muslim University in December 2019. Dr. Khan was booked under the stringent law on the day he was expected to be released on bail from Mathura jail where he was lodged after his arrest in the case on January 29. While rejecting the arguments given by the State government in favour of the NSA, the court concluded that it had “no hesitation” in saying that neither the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act, 1980 nor the extension (twice) of the detention are “sustainable in the eye of law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-kafeel-khan-immediately-allahabad-hc-orders-up-govt/article32500568.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Telcos get 10 years to pay AGR dues to govt.||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed telecom companies 10 years’ time to pay their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to the government. The government had proposed in court a 20-year “formula” for telcos to make staggered payments of the dues. The formula was devised after extensive discussions, even at the Cabinet level, taking into account the financial dent the dues would cause the telecom sector. Even after part payment, the dues still run to Rs. 1.43 lakh crore. “We consider that the period of 20 years fixed for payment is excessive,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, stood firm in a 42-page judgment. An October 2019 judgment of the court in the AGR issue originally wanted the telcos to make the repayments in three months. The court had concluded that the private telecom sector had long reaped the fruits of the Centre’s liberalised mode of payment by revenue sharing regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telcos-get-10-years-to-pay-agr-dues-to-govt/article32500561.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Virtual consultation on PRR project put off||The virtual public consultation of the controversial Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project, scheduled to be held on September 3, has been postponed by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). It has now been scheduled on September 23 at 11 a.m. In a public notice here on Monday, BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev said the public consultation to receive “environmental related public comments and suggestions on the draft EIA/ EMP report” had been postponed due to “unexpected reasons”.“As notified earlier, the participants can use the same meeting ID (85017299310) and passcode (bpe2020) to join the meeting,” the public notice added. This is the second time the public consultation was scheduled. The BDA had announced the virtual consultation after poor response to the first public consultation on the project following confusion over the event itself and the fact that the venue was away from the city centre. The virtual consultation drew criticism from sections of citizens, including farmers who will be losing land to the project. The PRR project has been controversial for multiple reasons, especially with regard to the impact on environment and ecosystem of lakes and catchment areas. More than 33,000 trees will have to be felled to make way for the road. The construction of the road will also eat into more than 10 hectares of forest land. Leo Saldanha, environmentalist, termed it an illegal project. “When there is no Detailed Project Report, how can there be an environmental impact assessment,” he asked. He also said while everyone was focussing on the loss of tree cover, not much was being said about the houses that would have to be razed to make way for the road. Recently, the BDA changed the alignment to save residential apartments at Seegehalli. “There are slums that will have to be cleared and houses razed. Hundreds of citizens have invested their money and savings in constructing their homes. Many now are likely to be rendered homeless and many are wondering if their home will have to make way for the road. There is clearly a class divide where to save the houses of the rich, the alignment is changed,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virtual-consultation-on-prr-project-put-off/article32500608.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India violated consensus’||China’s Foreign Ministry on Tuesday accused India of “breaking earlier consensus”, and called for India to “immediately withdraw its troops”, in statements issued in Beijing and New Delhi. The Indian Army said on Monday that on August 29 night, the PLA carried out “provocative” military movements to change the status quo.  “The Indian side’s statement may be different from the Chinese side’s but there is only one truth and fact,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said. “China has never provoked any war or conflict and never occupied an inch of other country’s territory.”page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-violated-consensus/article32500555.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Loan moratorium is extendable to two years’||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government and the Reserve Bank of India, informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the loan moratorium introduced during the lockdown “is extendable to two years”. While appearing before a Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Mr. Mehta was asked whether the moratorium, which was to expire on August 31, had been extended. “It is extendable to two years,” he replied. Mr. Mehta was referring to two circulars issued by the RBI on August 6. An 82-page affidavit filed by the Ministry of Finance said the circulars have devised a framework, which not only allowed concessions in interest rates but also “permits lenders to allow moratorium of up to two years, irrespective of current six-month moratorium ending on August 31”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/loan-moratorium-is-extendable-to-two-years/article32500572.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST revenue falls 12% in August at Rs. 86,449 crore||Goods and Services Tax revenue in August stood at Rs. 86,449 crore, just over 1% lower than the Rs. 87,422 crore collected in July. On a year-on-year basis, GST collections dropped 12% from August 2019, according to data released by the Finance Ministry on Tuesday. State-wise data shows that Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan have posted a marginal increase in collections, while Haryana and Rajasthan saw a marginal decrease. Major States still showing a significant drop include Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Overall, revenues from import of goods dropped 23% from the previous year, while revenues from domestic transactions dropped 8%. The Ministry noted that small businesses with a turnover less than Rs. 5 crore have till September to file returns. “Coming after the disappointing GDP data for the first quarter yesterday, these figures indicate that collections are on the recovery path in the first month of the second quarter. The collections on domestic transactions are just 8% lower than the same month last year, indicating a revival of economic activities post lockdown,” said M.S. Mani, partner at Deloitte India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-revenue-falls-12-in-august-at-rs-86449-crore/article32500574.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||‘One-fifth of city’s population exposed to SARS-CoV-2’||The results of a seroprevalence study conducted in Chennai between mid-July and early August have shown that one-fifth of the city’s population has been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 infection. The study was conducted by the National Institute of Epidemiology of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Greater Chennai Corporation. The preliminary findings indicated that around 80% of the population is still susceptible to the infection. The study was carried out to estimate the seroprevalence of the SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population aged 10 years or above in the Greater Chennai Corporation, and to determine the sociodemographic risk factors for SARS-CoV-2 infection in the city. Noting with concern a huge variation in seroprevalence across zones — ranging from 7.1% in Madhavaram to 44.2% in Tondiarpet — the report underscored the need to understand the reasons for the same to improve control measures. Blood samples from 12,405 individuals from 51 wards covering all 15 zones of GCC were collected and analysed. A total of 2,673 individuals had evidence of past SARS-CoV-2 infection. The infection to case ratio, calculated by dividing the estimated number of infections by the total number of COVID-19 cases reported one to two weeks before the survey, was lower than the figures in some of the published studies, indicating high testing. The infection to fatality ratio, arrived at by dividing the number of deaths reported three weeks after the survey by the estimated number of infections, was comparable or lower than the figures in other published studies, the preliminary findings added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-fifth-of-citys-population-exposed-to-sars-cov-2/article32500664.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Doors reopen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doors-reopen/article32500557.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways plan to run more special trains||As India enters the fourth phase of the post-pandemic ‘unlock’ process, the Indian Railways plan to start more special passenger trains in high-demand sectors, for which they are in discussions with various State governments. These trains will be run in addition to the 230 special trains that are currently operational. While the Railways did not share more details, an official spokesperson said, “More special trains are being planned. State governments are being consulted.” While the Railways had also announced in June that more trains were likely to be introduced soon, the plan was shelved as various State governments, including of Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand, requested the cancellation of existing trains or for a reduction in their frequency due to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Freight demand grows In a separate statement, the Ministry said its freight loading for the month of August 2020 at 94.33 million tonnes, surpassed the loading (91.02 million tonnes) for the corresponding month last year. The total loading included 40.49 million tonnes of coal, 12.46 million tonnes of iron ore and 6.24 million tonnes of foodgrains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railways-plan-to-run-more-special-trains/article32500573.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Pubs off to a slow start||Pubs and other watering holes restarted business on Tuesday after a long break of over five months in Bengaluru. Business was slow and patrons were very few in number on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pubs-off-to-a-slow-start/article32500611.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mukherjee cremated with military honours||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday, was cremated with full military honours on Tuesday. The last rites were performed by his son, Abhijit Mukherjee, at the Lodhi crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mukherjee-cremated-with-military-honours/article32500766.ece
02 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bars allowed to open in Bengal amid pandemic||The West Bengal government has allowed bars to open in the State, outside containment zones, as the phase four of ‘Unlock’ is in progress. The order added that bars will be required to make adequate arrangements to ensure strict adherence to social distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bars-allowed-to-open-in-bengal-amid-pandemic/article32500768.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Highest new COVID cases in two months in Delhi||The national capital on Tuesday recorded the highest number of daily new COVID-19 cases in the last 59 days with 2,312 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases in the city stood at 1,77,060.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-new-covid-cases-in-two-months-in-delhi/article32500767.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bhushan’s conviction is against international law’||The ICJ on Tuesday said civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s conviction for criminal contempt of court by the Supreme Court seemed inconsistent with the freedom of expression law guaranteed by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that India was a party to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhushans-conviction-is-against-international-law/article32500769.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Assembly session to begin from Sept. 14||The next session of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will be held at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai from September 14. An official communication in this regard was notified by Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-session-to-begin-from-sept-14/article32500666.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Lean business marks reopening of malls||Business was lean on Tuesday as malls across the State reopened after a five-month lockdown due to the pandemic. Prominent malls in Chennai had only serious buyers walking in despite many retailers opening shop. At Express Avenue, around 200 shops pulled up their shutters on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lean-business-marks-reopening-of-malls/article32500667.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||State registers 5,928 new cases, 96 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported 5,928 new COVID cases, pushing the tally to 4,33,969, while the death toll stood at 7,418 with 96 more fatalities. With 6,031 recoveries, the active cases stood at 52,379. In total, 3,74,172 people have recovered. Of the new cases, Chennai accounted for 1,084.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-registers-5928-new-cases-96-fatalities/article32500668.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Bus services resume amid low patronage||Intra-district bus services resumed across Tamil Nadu after a long gap on Tuesday. Patronage, however, was low. As inter-district bus services have not resumed, passengers had to get down at the district borders and board a moffusil or town bus to reach their destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-services-resume-amid-low-patronage/article32500669.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Case trends in Telangana hold steady||After a drop in COVID-19 cases in Telangana following Sunday’s dip in testing, the week opened with a spike. On Monday, 2,734 samples tested positive compared to 1,873 a day earlier. With nine more deaths, fatalities touched 836. Testing levels stood at 37,791 on August 30, and 58,264 on August 31. The highest number, 347 cases, was logged in Greater Hyderabad region. Other districts recorded as follows: Rangareddy (212), Nalgonda (191), Khammam (161), Medchal-Malkajgiri (121), Bhadradri-Kothagudem (117), Nizamabad (114), Warangal Urban (112), Siddipet (109), Suryapet (107) and Karimnagar (106). Andhra Pradesh had 10,000-plus infections for the seventh day on Tuesday. With 84 new deaths, the toll crossed the 4,000-mark, representing a death rate of 0.91%. Overall infections went up to 4,45,139 with the addition of 10,368 cases. So far, 37.82 lakh samples were tested with a positivity rate of 11.77%. East Godavari again reported the highest single-day count of 1,208 cases and 10 deaths, Chittoor 1,068 cases and 14 deaths and Nellore 1,059 cases and six deaths. Kerala reported 1,140 new cases on Tuesday and 22,512 people were being treated in hospital. New cases in the past two days were lower than the normal case graph from the past few weeks, a trend attributed to the general lull in activities during the Onam holiday season, which also seemed to have affected testing. While 30,000 to 40,000 samples were tested daily on regular days, during the past two days, samples were less than 20,000. Only 14,137 were tested in the last 24 hours. The toll was 298 on Tuesday, with the Health Department confirming four deaths due to the virus - one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam besides two from Kasaragod. Over 95% new cases — 1,090 — were locally acquired infections including 20 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 227 cases, Malappuram 191, Ernakulam 161, Kozhikode 155, Thrissur 133, Kannur 77, Kottayam 62, Palakkad 42, Alappuzha 32, Kollam 25, Kasaragod 15, Pathanamthitta 12, and Wayanad 8. A total of 5,928 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. Another 6,031 persons were discharged after treatment, while the deaths of 96 persons were also recorded. With this, the State’s total number of positive cases increased to 4,33,969. Of this, 52,379 persons were presently under treatment, 3,74,172 discharged after treatment and 7,418 persons succumbed to the infection. Chennai recorded a marginal dip in fresh COVID-19 infection with 1,084 persons (including an imported case) testing positive.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-trends-in-telangana-ap-hold-steady/article32500513.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath meets Doval, Rawat over LAC crisis||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat and the three Service Chiefs to discuss the situation on the ground in Ladakh, a defence source said on Tuesday. At Chushul, the Brigadie-r level talks began around 9:30 a.m. and went on till about 6 p.m., the first source said. “The talks are a confidence-building measure to ensure the situation on ground doesn’t escalate,” the source stated on the outcome of the talks. Troops on two peaks Another defence source said the Army deployed troops on two peaks in the Chushul sector near the Spanggur gap on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control, but also claimed by China, to pre-empt any action by the People’s Liberation Army to occupy them. At Monday’s talks, China demanded that India withdraw from the peaks in the Chushul sector, it has been learnt. An official said this was an attempt by China to change the alignment of the LAC in the South Bank of Pangong after making ingress up to Finger 4 on the North Bank since the stand-off between the two Armies began in May first week. Unlike the North Bank, where the Army only undertakes patrols, in the South Bank, it has a firm presence and has significantly strengthened its defences in the area in the past few years. This includes deployment of tanks in the South Bank area. There was no change in the ground situation on the North Bank and other stand-off areas, the first source said. Chinese troops continued to occupy the ridge lines of Finger 4, and in the last two months, have undertaken a further build-up, which showed they were preparing to stay for the winter, the source added. Stalemate continues The two sides have held five rounds of Corps Commander talks so far since May, in addition to military-level talks at other levels but the talks have hit a stalemate after some initial disengagement. It was during the first phase of disengagement that the violent clashes occurred at the Galwan Valley, resulting in the deaths of 20 Indian armed forces personnel as also an unknown number of Chinese personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-meets-doval-rawat-over-lac-crisis/article32500519.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||65.4% of virus deaths in a day in 5 States||In the last 24 hours, five States have posted the highest addition to the new cases in the country, with Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka leading the tally, followed by Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Together they account for 56% of the confirmed cases added in the last 24 hours, said a release issued by the Union Health Ministry here on Tuesday. The Ministry said that these five States have also reported the maximum number of patients that have recovered in the last 24 hours, cumulatively accounting for 58.04% of the national figure of 65,081 persons. Cumulative figure With a cumulative figure of 536 deaths in the last 24 hours, the five States together account for 65.4% of the deaths added to the national total (819). Maharashtra has reported 184 deaths, Karnataka has added 113, followed by Tamil Nadu (91), Andhra Pradesh (85) and Uttar Pradesh (63). Giving details of COVID-19 sample testing in India, the Ministry said that India’s cumulative tests crossed 4.3 crore on Tuesday. “1,22,66,514 tests were done in the last two weeks alone. States/UTs are progressively increasing their testing capacity. The States contributing maximum to the overall number of tests include Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra among others. These three States account for nearly 34% of the total testing,” said the release. The Ministry added that India’s per day testing capacity has crossed 10 lakh tests. 10,16,920 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. ‘Sustained growth’ “There has been a sustained growth in the average weekly numbers of tests. The weekly average tests have multiplied by more than four times since the first week of January 2020,” said the Ministry. Stating that expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country have given a substantial boost, the Health Ministry noted that Tests Per Million (TPM) have also seen a sharp increase to 31,394. “22 States/UTs have better TPM than national average. Goa, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are reporting maximum number of tests in a day,” the Ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/654-of-virus-deaths-in-a-day-in-5-states/article32500532.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||JEE-Main begins with safety precautions||Students applying for architecture and planning courses were the first to step out for the Joint Entrance Examination-Main, as the six-day entrance test began on Tuesday. After protests and court cases failed to spur a further postponement in the examination that was originally scheduled for April, lakhs of candidates donned masks and gloves, and armed themselves with sanitiser to brave the COVID-19 pandemic and attempt the examination. Overall, 8.58 lakh students have registered to write the computer-based test, which is being conducted from September 1-6, with two shifts per day at 660 centres across the country. So far, 7.7 lakh students have downloaded admit cards, according to data from the National Testing Agency (NTA). The first day of the examination was devoted to B.Arch and B.Planning. Reports from around the country and on social media suggest that many students who have also applied for the B.E. and B.Tech papers later in the week, or the medical entrance examination NEET later in the month, decided not to risk their health by attempting the architecture papers today. “My daughter is also absent today due to lack of transportation and she is also NEET aspirant. If she gets infected now, then how can she give NEET examination on 13 September? And tomorrow is her JEE main B.Tech exam also,” said Twitter user N. Parveen. Many worried On social media, students shared pictures showing varying levels of compliance with the NTA’s safety norms at different centres, with some saying distancing guidelines to protect them from infection were not followed, especially as students exited the exam hall.  The NTA said arrangements had been made to disinfect seating areas between shifts of students, provide fresh masks and sanitiser, check body temperatures with thermal guns, and isolate students with fever in separate rooms. “JEE exam was conducted smoothly all over the country,” said Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare.  On Tuesday morning, the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court refused to defer the examination, but said that students from the flood-hit parts of Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region, who could not reach the examination centre or reached late could apply to the NTA for a re-examination. On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted expressing concern for JEE candidates, as well as for those who have written the SSC Railway examinations in 2018 and are yet to get their results. “Modi Govt’ is jeopardising India's future. Arrogance is making the m ignore the genuine concerns of the JEE-NEET aspirants as well as the demands of those who took SSC and other exams. Give jobs, not empty slogans,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jee-main-begins-with-safety-precautions/article32500551.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||India violated consensus, says China||China’s Foreign Ministry on Tuesday accused India of “breaking earlier consensus”, and called for India to “immediately withdraw its troops”, in statements issued in Beijing and New Delhi that questioned India’s account of the latest tensions. The Indian Army said on Monday that on August 29 night, the PLA violated previous agreements and carried out “provocative” military movements to change the status quo . To pre-empt these moves, India undertook measures “to strengthen our positions”. India has maintained that it carried out these measures on its side of the LAC (Line of Actual Control), near the south bank of Pangong Tso. In May, China crossed the LAC on the north bank, and has since entrenched its positions 8 km into India’s side. Chinese troops have also crossed the LAC in the Depsang plains in the north and in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. “The Indian side’s statement may be different from the Chinese side’s but there is only one truth and fact,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said. “China has never provoked any war or conflict and never occupied an inch of other country’s territory.” Embassy statement In a statement, the Chinese Embassy in Delhi said, “On August 31, Indian troops violated the consensus reached in previous multi-level engagements and negotiations between China and India, illegally trespassed the Line of Actual Control again at the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake and near the Reqin Pass in the western sector of China-India border, and conducted flagrant provocations, which again stirred tension in the border areas.” The statement, issued by spokesperson Ji Rong, said India’s “move has grossly violated China's territorial sovereignty, seriously violated relevant agreements, protocols and important consensus reached between the two countries, and severely damaged peace and tranquillity along the China-India border areas.” The statement said, “What India has done runs counter to the efforts made by both sides for a period of time to ease and cool down the situation on the ground, and China is resolutely opposed to this. China has made solemn representations to the Indian side, urged the Indian side to strictly control and restrain its frontline troops, earnestly honour its commitments, immediately stop all the provocative actions, immediately withdraw its troops illegally trespassing the Line of Actual Control, immediately stop any actions leading to the escalation and complication of the situation.” On Tuesday, China also released remarks made by its Foreign Minister Wang Yi following a speech on Sunday during an official visit to France, saying Beijing “will not be the first to complicate or escalate the situation” along the LAC. Mr. Wang said because “the boundary between China and India has not yet been demarcated, there will always be problems of this kind.” On recent developments on the border, he said, “What I want to tell you is that China has always been committed to maintaining stability in the Sino-Indian border areas. We will not take be the first to complicate or escalate the situation. Of course, we will firmly safeguard our sovereignty and territorial integrity”. China was “ready to manage all issues through dialogue” and called on India to “place the issues in an appropriate position in the bilateral relationship,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-violated-consensus-says-china/article32500523.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Focus must be on preventing deaths: experts||The government’s focus should be to prevent deaths from COVID-19 and no longer on containing the infection, says a statement jointly issued by the Indian Public Health Association (IPHA), the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and the Indian Association of Epidemiologists. India now accounts for the highest number of increase in cases globally. Lockdowns have outlived their utility in India and schools should be reopened in a graded manner, according to a joint statement by the three leading epidemiologist associations — some of whose members are a part of the government’s national COVID-19 task force. The statement said: “Lockdown as a strategy for control should be discontinued. Geographically limited restrictions for short periods may be imposed in epidemiologically defined clusters... In large cities where already there has been substantial spread, there is NO (sic) advantage of creating containment zones and aggressive testing”. “In cities with a high number of cases, symptomatic patients (even if they don’t test positive) should be treated at home or hospital depending on the degree of severity. Most patients should be monitored through phones and pulse oximeter readings followed up and these should be used to take decisions on early hospitalisations,” it said. “However in cities and rural areas where the infections are ‘moderate’ or extremely limited, containment zones as well as isolating those who might carry the infection ought to be implemented strictly. Moreover, practices such as labelling houses with those afflicted, as ‘positive’ should be done away with,” the statement said. ‘Social stigma’ was a key factor that kept people with symptoms from coming forward and getting tested, it added. “It’s time now to move towards normalcy. Opening of school and other educational institutions could be started in graded manner. There should be a pragmatic approach, especially in areas where sufficient population is already infected with SARS CoV-2.” The statement is available online at the website of the IPHA. On May 31, the group of epidemiologists criticised the government for not taking field-level epidemiologists, and “overly relying” on modelling estimates to take decisions on the lockdown, which ended up triggering a migrant crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-must-be-on-preventing-deaths-experts/article32500537.ece
02 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Road accident fatalities in Kerala least in south India||Road accident fatalities in Kerala were the least in southern India in 2019 compared to fatalities in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Maharashtra. As many as 4,370 people were killed and 44,467 injured in 39,944 accidents in the State last year, as per the “Accident deaths and suicides in India in 2019” of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Road safety experts attribute to stern enforcement drive by law enforcers, increasing awareness among motorists, and hike in penalties for the fatalities coming down in Kerala. During 2019, as many as160 deaths took place on roads in Thiruvananthapuram (1,704 cases and injuries 1,701), 155 deaths in Kochi (2,138 cases, 2,254 injuries), and 179 deaths in Kozhikode (cases and injuries 1,597 each). National Highway (NH) stretches in the State accounted for 1,290 deaths and injuries to 10,994 in 9,431 accidents last year. On State highways, 1,040 people lost their lives and 9,897 sustained injuries in 9,118 road accidents. An analysis of road accident statistics by the NCRB has shown that 7,862 accidents took place between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m., 7,312 (between 9 a.m. and 12 noon), 6,199 (between 12 noon and 3 p.m.), 4,666 (between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.), 3,286 (between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m.), 1,394 between 3 a.m. and 6 a.m., and 1,063 between midnight and 3 a.m. Dangerous driving and overtaking resulted in 1,690 deaths, speeding 2,194, driving under the influence of alcohol 16, physical fatigue of drivers six, mechanical condition of vehicles 137, lack of road infra 27, and illegal parking 27 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/road-accident-fatalities-in-kerala-least-in-south-india/article32500918.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||India aims for balance with slew of multilateral meetings||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will meet with their Russian and Chinese counterparts next week for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting, while New Delhi is planning to host their American counterparts for the Indo-U.S. “2+2” talks as well as a meeting of Foreign Ministers of the “Quad”, including Australia and Japan in October, several officials confirmed. The plans for the meetings by the government indicates it is still pursuing both strategic formations despite rising tensions at the Line of Actual Control with China. On Wednesday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will leave for Moscow to “attend the SCO Defence Minister’s meeting” on September 3, the Minister’s office tweeted on Tuesday. He will attend the meeting alongside defence ministers of China and Pakistan, although the only bilateral meeting planned is with Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu. On September 4, Mr. Jaishankar will attend a virtual meeting of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) foreign ministers. He is then is due to fly to Moscow for the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10, as well as a bilateral meeting with Russian Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov. It remains to be seen whether Mr. Jaishankar will speak separately to Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, their first face-to-face meeting since the People’s Liberation Army began its aggressive moves at the LAC in May. Both Mr. Singh and Mr. Jaishankar’s visits are on track despite New Delhi’s decision to pull out troops from military exercises with 18 armies, hosted by Russia in Astrakhan this month ostensibly over the optics of exercising together while the Armies are facing off at the LAC in Ladakh. Meanwhile, U.S. State Department Deputy Secretary Stephen Biegun confirmed on Monday that a meeting of Ministers of the Quadrilateral is being planned “this fall”, and officials confirmed that it would be in October. “There’s going to be meeting of the Quad, a ministerial meeting with the Quad this fall in Delhi — that is the intention anyway,” said Mr. Biegun while speaking at a U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-aims-for-balance-with-slew-of-multilateral-meetings/article32500521.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Camera caught Chinese movement’||A surveillance camera installed at South Bank of Pangong Tso helped the Indian Army thwart an aggressive move by the Chinese troops to alter thestatus quoin the area on the night of August 29 and 30, a senior government official told The Hindu . The official said mobilisation and movement of troops could be detected from a distance in the area due to the powerful surveillance equipment. PLA plan foiled On Monday, the Army said in a statement that it pre-empted the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) activity on the Southern Bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), undertook measures to strengthen its positions and “thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground.” “After the Chinese movement was caught on camera, the Indian troops mobilised and stopped them from entering India’s perception of the LAC. They had enough time to prepare,” said the official. The Hindu could not confirm when the equipment was installed. The official said that China also has a similar equipment on its side. Earlier, a document uploaded on the Ministry of Defence’s website on August 5 and later deleted said, “Chinese aggression has been increasing along the LAC, and more particularly in Galwan valley, since May 5. The Chinese side transgressed in the areas of Kurang Nala, Gogra and north bank of Pangong Tso on May 17-18.” Twenty soldiers were killed on June 15 in Galwan in violent clashes with the Chinese PLA. India and China held the first round of Corps Commander-level talks on June 6, but there has been no restoration of status quo ante since. Chinese ingress Latest assessment by intelligence agencies shows that at Galwan junction, where the June 15 clashes were reported, the Chinese PLA are still within 800 metres of India’s perception of LAC as against 5 kilometres initially. The Chinese moved back after a series of dialogues, including the Special Representatives talks on July 5. At Galwan Valley and Gogra, Chinese troops are 2 km and 1 km inside respectively. The ingress is 8 kilometres in the Finger area of North Bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/camera-caught-chinese-movement/article32500528.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||AGR dues have to be paid in toto: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday softened its stance somewhat to allow telecom companies a “reasonable time” of a decade to pay their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to the government in “equal yearly instalments”. The top court said it changed its mind taking into consideration the financial stress and the involvement of the banking sector. An October 2019 judgment of the court in the AGR issue originally wanted the telcos to make the repayments in three months. “But at the same time, it is to be ensured that the dues are paid in toto. The concession is granted only on the condition that the dues shall be paid punctually within the time stipulated by this court. Even a single default will attract the dues along with interest, penalty and interest on penalty at the rate specified in the agreement,” the court warned the telcos. In a series of directions to the telcos, the court said they shall raise no dispute nor will there be any reassessment of the dues. The telecom operators would make the payment of 10% of the total dues as demanded by Department of Telecom by March 31, 2021. The yearly instalments would commence from April 1, 2021, up to March 31, 2031. The instalments would be paid by March 31 every year. The managing director/chairman or other authorised officer should give an undertaking within four weeks, to make payment of arrears. The telcos shall keep alive the existing bank guarantees they had submitted regarding the spectrum until the payment is made. Telecom majors such as Vodafone had said they were in no position to give fresh bank guarantees for repayment of the AGR dues. In the event of any default, interest would become payable along with penalty and interest on penalty without reference to court. Besides, it would be punishable for contempt of court. Compliance should be reported every year on April 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/agr-dues-have-to-be-paid-in-toto-sc/article32500549.ece
02 September 2020||Hubballi,||E-ticket racket unearthed by Railway Protection Force; 100 arrested so far||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) of South Western Railway (SWR) has unearthed a e-ticket racket involving a cross-border gang of criminals that hacked into the IRCTC tatkal e-ticketing system and booked tickets directly which were subsequently sold for four to five times more than the actual fare. The Railway Minister has given assent to take up the case with CBI. Illegal software According to a press release by SWR, it was in September last year that intelligence agencies were alerted of the use of illegal software for bypassing the IRCTC and bank security systems used for booking tatkal tickets across India. The sleuths of SWR-RPF nabbed a criminal, who in turn led them to a mastermind of the illegal software. The criminal, however, fled Bengaluru in October 2019, but the sleuths managed to trace him to Kenderpara in Odisha. The Bengaluru RPF team arrested and brought him to Bengaluru for further investigation. Thorough interrogation revealed that the accused was using Pakistan-based softwares with high-level hacking codes to hack into government organisations and agencies. The criminal also had details of around 3,000 bank details, bitcoins and cryptocurrency links. Further interrogation threw light on a black market comprising a network of 25,000 touts and hackers spread across India and abroad. Hacking codes The racket would run on demand brought by touts to sellers, who in turn would use the hacking codes to get access to the system to book tatkal tickets. The sellers got help from panel developers who would give access to the software on monthly charges. It was also revealed that the panel developers reported to financial and technical admins who maintained servers hosted in foreign countries. The money thus generated is suspected to be used for terror funding and other illegal activities, as per initial investigation. An official of the SWR said that the fraudsters used to earn Rs. 15 crore per day, approximately, through this system. After RPF-SWR unearthed how the network functioned to bypass the ticketing system, the Director-General of RPF personally coordinated through the DIG Railway Board, which led to raids across India leading to arrest of 100 panel developers and software sellers. The software codes have been seized and subsequently destroyed, the release said. The Principal Chief Security Commissioner of SWR and Divisional Security Commissioner of Bengaluru and team have been issued a commendation certificate by the Director-General of RPF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/e-ticket-racket-unearthed-by-railway-protection-force-100-arrested-so-far/article32500617.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘No proof submitted by Indrajit’||A day after film-maker Indrajit Lankesh appeared before the Anti-Narcotics Wing for questioning and claimed that he had provided evidence about the alleged drug abuse in the Kannada film industry, senior officials from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) refuted his claims. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said in a statement said that Mr. Lankesh had mentioned about past incidents and took a few names, but no material evidence was given to corroborate his claims. He further said the CCB was verifying his claims and would give him an opportunity again to submit any evidence or material to support his claims. On Monday, the CCB had summoned the film-maker and questioned him for five hours to record his statement. Soon after the enquiry, he had told the media that he had submitted a list of names of film industry members involved in the drug menace and had also submitted documentary evidence which will help the CCB in investigation. More drugs recovered Meanwhile, as part of the drive against drug menace, the Begur police arrested three persons from West Bengal and recovered 11 kg of ganja worth Rs. 4.4 lakh from them. The accused, Mohammed Alamgir, 44, Mohammed Ripun, 33 and Mohar Ali Mondal, 23, used to allegedly smuggle the drugs into the city by train and supply them to their local contacts. They were living in Begur in the garb of migrant labourers but would peddle drugs, the police said. The accused were arrested while they were waiting near a temple in Vishwapriya Layout in Begur with ganja, to hand over the consignment to their contacts. Based on a tip-off, a team of police raided the place in the wee hours and arrested them. The police are now investigating to ascertain how drugs are being smuggled into the city by train despite security. The accused told the police that they would conceal the drugs in their backpacks and board the trains from West Bengal from the outskirts where there is less or no security check. The accused would dump the packs on the outskirts of the city as soon as the train reached the city. They would get down at the next railway station and walk back to collect their bags. Sometimes, the accused would take the help of their associates who would wait for them on the outskirts of the city on railway tracks to collect the drugs. Ganja seized In another incident, the Devanahalli police arrested two persons and recovered ganja worth Rs. 1.75 lakh from them. The accused, Muniraju, 33, and Nagesh, 25 from Hosakote were caught red handed while they were waiting near a dhaba on Devanahalli road waiting for their contacts to hand over the consignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-proof-submitted-by-indrajit/article32500494.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka RTC to fill all seats in buses||As more relaxations kicked in under Unlock 4.0, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) too has got the go-ahead to fill all seats in its buses. The transport corporation had sought the State government’s nod to relax norms on social distancing in the wake of mounting losses and operational costs. Until now, the KSRTC was allowed to take 30 passengers in ‘Karnataka Sarige’ buses with a seating capacity of 54, and in AC buses with a seating capacity of around 40, only 20 passengers were allowed. “Prior to Karnataka, other States were running buses with full capacity. The move will help the KSRTC to bear the operational cost. The new order of the government is being followed from Tuesday,” a KSRTC official said. The official also said that response to services is improvingover the weeks. At present, the transport utility is operating 4,000 buses and 7.5 lakh to 8.5 lakh passengers are travelling every day. The revenue touched Rs. 4.45 crore on Sunday. Meanwhile, after over five months, road transport corporations in theState are likely to resume services to Goa. Officials said services to Goa, including premier AC buses, would be operated for two or three days. “We have received a positive response from the Goa government on resuming services. NWKRTC and KSRTC were running buses to Goa prior to the lockdown. Depending on demand, services will be operated in the coming days,” an official said and added that there had been no response from other States such Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala to resume services. “We operated 42 buses for the benefit of passengers travelling to Kerala to celebrate Onam. Regular services, however, have not yet resumed,” the official said. KSRTC inter-State services began in mid-June to Andhra Pradesh, though other neighbouring States did not give a nod to operate buses. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi recently said a decision on services to Maharashtra, the worst-hit State in the country by the pandemic, would be taken later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-rtc-to-fill-all-seats-in-buses/article32500496.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Congress office attacked day after murders||The face-off between the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) over the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists at Venjarammoodu near here on Sunday night threatened to escalate on Tuesday, with unknown persons fire-bombing an office of the Congress at Nadapuram in Kozhikode. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) has given a call to observe Wednesday as “black day” in Kerala, prompting the police to increase vigil in localities that have witnessed political violence in the past. Political killings appeared to have roiled State politics again over a year after the murder of two Congress workers, allegedly by CPI(M) activists at Periye in Kasaragod district. The government has put the blame for the Venjarammoodu murders on the Congress leadership. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan alleged that the assailants called Adoor Prakash, Congress MP from Attingal, immediately after the attack. The DYFI released a phone voice recording as “evidence” of Mr. Prakash’s links with the killers. Mr. Prakash has denied the allegation.  Seven arrested Meanwhile, seven persons were arrested by the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Tuesday in connection with the murders. Police identified them as Pullampara natives Sajeev, Sanal, Ajith, Shajith, Sathimon, Najeeb and Preetha of Madapuram. Two others suspected of indirect involvement are under custody. Ajith, Shajith, Sathimon and Najeeb, who have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days, were purportedly part of the conspiracy and were present during the incident. Preetha was arrested on the charge of providing refuge to Sajeev and Sanal and assisting them in their efforts to flee to Pathanamthitta. Most of those arrested were either Congress workers or closely linked to the party, the police said. In the remand report, the police said a clash that took place in Thembamoodu during the finale of the campaign for the general elections paved the way for political animosity among CPI(M) and Congress workers in the region. Two DYFI workers Shaheen, witness in the current case, and Faizal, had been attacked on April 19 and May 25 respectively. The arrests recorded in that case of bid to murder Faizal prompted the accused to hatch the plot for the twin murders, it is said.  Hartal total The hartal called by the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Vembayam grama panchayat in protest against the attack on Congress offices was total on Tuesday. While the party office in Venjaramoodu was set ablaze a day ago, offices in Vembayam and Kanyakulangara also came under attack. The Youth Congress took out a march to the Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-office-attacked-day-after-murders/article32500498.ece
02 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,||Top Maoist leader likely to surrender||Former general secretary of the banned Communist Party of India-Maoist Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi is said to be negotiating a surrender citing ill health. He is apparently trying to get in touch with the police brass in Telangana for his surrender, according to sources. It was a well-discussed move in the Maoist Central Committee and a voluntary decision of Ganapathi, the sources said. However, a senior officer in the Intelligence Department, said that there is no confirmation and there is no strong reason for him to negotiate a surrender as he is a committed leader and illness cannot be the sole reason. Ganapathi, 73, had stepped down as general secretary of the party in November 2018, paving way for his younger colleague Nambala Keshava Rao, 63, alias Basavaraj. Ganapathi, a science graduate and B.Ed from Karimnagar, was a teacher before joining the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-maoist-leader-likely-to-surrender/article32500502.ece
02 September 2020||MYSURU,||25 administered Covishield in vaccine trials in Mysuru||A total of 25 volunteers have been administered the Covishield vaccine in Mysuru as part of the human trials. Ever since the trials began last Saturday, 25 healthy volunteers have received their vaccine shots at JSS Hospital in Mysuru, Pro Chancellor of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) B. Suresh told The Hindu.  The volunteers, who had been administered the vaccine after undergoing a complete health check-up, will be monitored over the coming days. The first stage of monitoring lasts for 28 days by when the volunteers will be checked for any fever, allergy and side effects, said Dr. Suresh. Along with the 25 volunteers from Mysuru, the data of 75 other volunteers from the remaining three centres across the country will be collated by the end of 28 days. “If any issue arises, it will be dealt with,” he said. Later, the trials will be expanded to cover 1,100 people in phase 3 trials, which will be conducted across 17 centres. These 25 volunteers in Mysuru are among the 100 volunteers from four different centres across the country who had enlisted for phase 2 trials of Covishield vaccine developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with Oxford University and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine, supplied the requisite number of vaccines to JSSAHER for the trials. JSSAHER, which is the only centre in Karnataka selected for the clinical trials of Covishield, will administer the vaccine candidate to a total of 250 volunteers. Dr. Suresh is hopeful of the success of Covishield and expects the results to be out by November or December this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-administered-covishield-in-vaccine-trials-in-mysuru/article32500503.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia to hold naval drills in Andaman Sea||Amid high operational alert by the Indian Navy in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) due to the ongoing stand-off with China in Ladakh, India and Russia are scheduled to hold the bilateral naval exercise, Indra 2020, in the Andaman Sea, close to the strategic Strait of Malacca later this week. “Three Russian Navy ships will take part in the exercise on September 4 and 5 along with an equal number from the Indian Navy, along with some aircraft,” a defence source said. This is also the first bilateral naval exercise since all such engagements were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The timing of the exercise coincides with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to Russia for the Shanghai Cooperation organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers meet. It also comes just after India withdrew from the Kavkaz-2020 multinational exercise in Russia that is scheduled for later this month. While the stated reason for the withdrawal was the COVID-19 pandemic, defence sources had said that it was due to the participation of Chinese troops. “So instead of exercising with Chinese troops in Kavkaz 2020, we would exercise with Russian Navy near the mouth of Malacca,” another source observed. Exercise with U.S. In July, frontline warships of the Indian Navy conducted a Passage Exercise (PASSEX) with the U.S. aircraft carrier USS Nimitz strike group in the same area near the Andaman and Nicobar (A&N) islands as it was transiting the Indian Ocean.  USS Nimitz was returning from the South China Sea through the Malacca Strait where it undertook freedom of navigation operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-to-hold-naval-drills-in-andaman-sea/article32500515.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mukherjee cremated with military honours||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday, was cremated with full military honours on Tuesday. The last rites were performed by his son, Abhijit Mukherjee, at the Lodhi crematorium on Tuesday. Earlier, Mr. Mukherjee’s mortal remains were placed at his residence in 10 Rajaji Marg to enable dignitaries and the general public to pay their last respects. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid their last respects. ‘India’s progress’ “Paid tributes to respected Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He would be remembered by generations for his efforts towards India’s progress,” Mr. Modi said on Twitter later. Due to the requirement of following social distancing norms and other COIVD-19 related protocols, the mortal remains were carried in a hearse van instead of the normal gun carriage. All guidelines with regard to COVID-19 related preventive measures were in place. Mr. Mukherjee, 84, passed away at the Army’s Research & Referral hospital where he was undergoing treatment since he had an emergency surgery for a brain clot. He had also tested positive for COVID-19. He developed a lung infection The Central government and several States have announced seven-day state mourning for the former President. The National Flag would fly at half-mast on all buildings throughout the country, the Home Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mukherjee-cremated-with-military-honours/article32500534.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Number of accidental deaths, suicides grew in 2019: NCRB||The number of suicide cases and accidental deaths registered an increase across the country last year from the 2018 figures, according to the annual National Crime Records Bureau report. The most cases of mass/family suicides were reported from Tamil Nadu (16), followed by Andhra Pradesh (14), Kerala (11) and Punjab (9) and Rajasthan (7). Suicides in the country went up slightly from 1,34,516 to 1,39,123. Of the 97,613 male suicides, the most were of daily wage earners (29,092), followed by self-employed persons (14,319) and the unemployed (11,599). Of the 41,493 female, over half were housewives. The most suicides by unemployed persons were in Kerala at 14% (1,963), followed by 10.8% in Maharashtra, 9.8% in Tamil Nadu, 9.2% in Karnataka and 6.1% in Odisha. Most suicides by those in business activities were in Maharashtra (14.2%), Tamil Nadu (11.7%), Karnataka (9.7%), West Bengal (8.2%) and Madhya Pradesh (7.8%). The suicide rate in cities (13.9%) was higher compared to the all-India average. In the Central Armed Police Forces, a total of 36 personnel died by suicide, 38.9% were due to “family problems”. Five such suicides were reported in Rajasthan, followed by four in Tamil Nadu. In all, 104 personnel died in various accidents. Accidental deaths Accidental deaths in the country increased by 2.3%. Compared with 4,11,824 in 2018, the figure stood at 4,21,104 last year. The rate (per lakh population) increased from 31.1 to 31.5. The most casualties of 30.9% were reported in the 30-45 age group, followed by 26% in the 18-30 age group. Maharashtra reported the highest deaths (70,329), amounting to nearly one-sixth of the total figure. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous State, accounted for 9.6% cases, followed by Madhya Pradesh (10.1%). A total of 8,145 deaths was due to the causes attributable to forces of nature, including 35.3% due to lightning, 15.6% by heat/sun stroke and 11.6% deaths in floods. The most deaths (400) due to lightning was reported each from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, followed by Jharkhand (334) and Uttar Pradesh (321). The major causes were ‘traffic accidents’ (43.9%), ‘sudden deaths’ (11.5%), ‘drowning’ (7.9%), ‘poisoning’ (5.1%), ‘falls’ (5.1%) and ‘accidental fire’ (2.6%). A majority (57.2%) of deaths was in the age groups of 18-45 years. Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health suicide prevention helpline 011-4076 9002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/number-of-accidental-deaths-suicides-grew-in-2019-ncrb/article32500542.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ravi Shankar Prasad writes to Facebook on ‘left bias’||With Facebook already facing criticism over alleged bias towards the Narendra Modi-led government in India, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has written to Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and CEO of the social network, raising “serious concerns” over the “concerted effort” by the platform to “reduce the reach of people supportive of right-of-centre ideology”. The Minister also highlighted that the India staff of the U.S.-headquartered giant is dominated by people belonging to a particular political belief, whose “political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people in successive free and fair elections”, and who on record abuse the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet Ministers of India.  Alluding to media reports in his letter, Mr. Prasad, who also holds the portfolio of Law and Justice, said the spate of recent anonymous, source-based reports is nothing but an internal power struggle within Facebook for an ideological hegemony. The Minister said he has been informed that in the run up to 2019 General Elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook India to not just delete pages or substantially reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right-of-centre ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ravi-shankar-prasad-writes-to-facebook-on-left-bias/article32500548.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to release SOP for Metro operations||Detailed guidelines for resuming operations of Metro trains from September 7 would be announced on Wednesday, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said on Tuesday. Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra held a meeting with managing directors of Metro companies on Tuesday to discuss the draft standard operating procedure (SOP) circulated to them earlier, Ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said. Under the Unlock 4 guidelines announced by the Union Home Ministry last week, Metro services are allowed to restart in a phased manner. “The suggestions [of Metro MDs] were considered in the meeting and accordingly SOP is being finalised,” Mr. Jain said. Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri would be announcing the guidelines, he said. The draft guidelines prepared by the Ministry were general in nature, including social distancing, restrictions on the number of passengers, maintaining hygiene and wearing masks, according to sources. The guidelines will be finalised in coordination with the Home Ministry, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-release-sop-for-metro-operations/article32500553.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Fr. Anthappa, historian of origins of Christianity in Karnataka, dead||Fr. Dr. Ignatius Anthappa, 91, a senior priest of the Bangalore Archdiocese who was also a noted historian of early Christianity in the State, died here on Sunday. He was also a passionate advocate of Kannada in the church and was one of the translators of the most widely followed Kannada translation of the Bible, accepted by Bible Society of India. He was one of the prominent activists who drove a demand to hold masses in Kannada and was awarded Karnataka Rajyotsava Award in 2001. Born in 1929 in Harobele, a small village in Kanakapura taluk which was recently in the eye of the storm over a Jesus Christ statue on Kapala Betta, priesthood seemed like a natural choice for him. The village has till date 36 priests and 112 nuns. He was the first Kannadiga to obtain a doctorate from Gregorian University, Rome. While heading several important parishes in Bengaluru, he took to unearthing and recording the history of the origins of Christianity in the State. He wrote eight books dealing with various regions and his account was based on till then unaccessed documents in the Vatican, among other sources. His work ‘Origin of Christianity in and around Srirangapatna’, originally written in Kannada, was critically acclaimed. He also wrote on the origins of Christianity in his native village Harobele and proved that its first brush with the religion dates back to at least 1662. “Ten years ago, we celebrated his 80th birthday in a grand way atop Kapala Betta and that was the last time he came to the village,” said Chinnappa, his nephew. Archbishop Rev. Dr. Peter Machado solemnised the funeral mass at the Holy Rosary Church at the village on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fr-anthappa-historian-of-origins-of-christianity-in-karnataka-dead/article32500614.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA inspects camera footage in Secretariat||A National Investigation Team (NIA) on Tuesday visited the government Secretariat and attempted to analyse months of video footage captured by in-house surveillance cameras. The NIA probe into the possible terrorist funding angle in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case had brought the agency to the Secretariat doorstep. The agency’s probe appeared focussed on the comings and goings at the office of the former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, M. Sivasankar. The NIA had reportedly attempted to isolate the accused in the case within the countless hours of grainy video recordings if any. The agency has technical experts on its team. By one account, the agency was focussed on finding out whether Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the case, was a regular at the office of Mr. Sivasankar. Timing of visists Investigators also wanted to probe whether her visits coincided with the timings of the illegal import of contraband gold in air cargo consignments addressed to the foreign staff at the UAE consulate here. Mr. Sivasankar’s alleged association with Swapna and her appointment to the Space Park project under the IT Department, while she was in the employ of the UAE consulate, had attracted the interest of the NIA and other Central agencies. The concurrence of events had also caused the Opposition parties to target Mr. Vijayan on the charge of giving free rein to “dubious characters” and “compromised” bureaucrats to run his office. Mr. Vijayan had countered the charge by writing to the Prime Minister seeking an NIA probe. He had placed Mr. Sivasankar under suspension and ordered the police to probe whether there was any nepotism in the appointment of Swapna to Space Park. Earlier, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had found Mr. Sivasankar of violating IAS conduct rules. The Customs case was that a Dubai-based cabal involving consulate officials and persons with access to higher-ups in the State government had exploited diplomatic goodwill to smuggle gold into the country from Dubai via air cargo consignments addressed to foreign personnel working for the UAE consulate here. The Customs had found that the accused had used the novel method of operation to import gold in bulk illegally. An undercover operation had helped the Customs bust the smuggling channel in July. Sumeet Kumar, Commissioner Customs, Preventive, the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-inspects-camera-footage-in-secretariat/article32500500.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 blueprint for Parliament ready||Staggered timings, a two-hour break for disinfection, and working weekends — the Union government’s plan to hold the first ever Parliament session during the COVID-19 pandemic is ready, a senior leader said on Tuesday. Deputy Leader of the Lok Sabha and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is learnt to have reached out to senior Opposition leaders, including Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, and Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien, to brief them about the plans. The plan is yet to be announced officially as some aspects are still being finalised. But to maintain distancing norms and spread out the Members of Parliament in both the Houses, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will have separate timings. While the Rajya Sabha will transact business between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the first half, proceedings in the Lok Sabha will start at 4 p.m. and will go on until 8 p.m. Disinfect chambers The two-hour break, between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., will be used to disinfect both the chambers. To formally allow members of one House into the other, the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha may have to officially grant permission on the first day of the session. Other important changes are also likely as the government plans to drop Question Hour — the one-hour time alloted to MPs when they can raise questions related to different Ministries. Though Mr. Chowdhury had written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla not to curtail Question Hour and Zero Hour as it encroaches on an MP’s right, the government may not agree.  Zero Hour However, Zero Hour — when an MP can raise any urgent issue on the floor of the House — may be allowed. The monsoon session of Parliament that usually gets under way by the third week of July was postponed because of COVID-19 and will now start on September 14. The upcoming session will have 18 sittings, which includes two working Saturdays and Sundays each, and will end on October 1. Opposition leaders, including Mr. Chowdhury and former Finance Minister and Rajya Sabha member P. Chidamabaram, had also written to the presiding officers of both the Houses to allow virtual participation along with physical sittings. But the Secretary-Generals of the Houses cited technical capacity limitations, not enough time, and difficulty in providing simultaneous translation online, to reject such a demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-blueprint-for-parliament-ready/article32500539.ece
02 September 2020||K.S. Sudhi,||Panel for survey among forward communities||Armed with a mobile app, the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities has approached the State for a first-ever socio-economic survey among forward community members. Though the list of the forward communities that are not covered by any reservation, has been prepared, there is no data on the socio-economic status of the community members. The previous commission headed by A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai had finalised the list of 168 forward communities, which included the 70 sub-castes of Hindu communities and 20 of the Christians. Any recommendation for the benefit of the community members can be made only on the basis of a baseline data, which would cover the socio-economic status of the community members. Currently, there is no such data. Hence, the suggestion, said M.R. Hariharan Nair, the chairman of the commission.  The survey will cover all the divisions and wards of the local bodies of the State, though in a representational manner. The data of these families will be collected on the mobile app, said Mr. Nair, also a former judge of the Kerala High Court. Questionnaire ready The commission has drawn up a questionnaire with the help of the sociology departments of a few educational institutions. The survey team members may have to be paid around Rs. 30 for every house they cover. It is estimated that the entire process would cost Rs. 35 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-for-survey-among-forward-communities/article32500916.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Release Kafeel Khan immediately: HC||Dr. Khan was accused of provoking the religious sentiments of Muslim students of the AMU while he was addressing a gathering of around 600 students there on December 12 on the CAA. However, the court noted that a “complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence” and also does not threaten peace and tranquillity of Aligarh. “The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence,” the court observed. ‘Selective reading’ It appears that the District Magistrate, Aligarh, had “selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent”, the court said. Dr. Khan’s family had said that he was being targeted by the Yogi Adityanath-led government for his activism, as despite being granted bail by a CJM court in Aligarh on February 10, he continued to languish in jail without proper reason. Additional Advocate General U.P. argued that while in prison, Dr. Khan was in contact with the students of AMU and was instigating them to disturb public order. The court, however, said it was not supported by facts as Dr. Khan was in State custody where he couldn’t have any electronic or mechanical device to contact anyone. The orders of the extension of the NSA were never served upon Dr. Khan, the court further said, adding that he was only provided radiograms related to the decision. The court also noted that neither was a transcript of the speech delivered by Dr. Khan in AMU supplied to him nor was he provided a device to play the compact disk of the speech for his representation. “It virtually amounts non-supply of the material necessary to submit a representation in accordance with clause (5) of Article 22 of the Constitution of India. Such non-supply of material violates a precious fundamental right of a detenue enshrined under Article 22 of the Constitution. On this count also the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan deserves to be set aside,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/release-kafeel-khan-immediately-hc/article32500507.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Loan moratorium is extendable to two years’||The Ministry said, “A borrower fearful of being in default as on September 1 and becoming an NPA [Non Performing Asset] could continue to avail moratorium as a part of the resolution plan”. The RBI framework introduced by the circulars were specific to the pandemic situation. With the framework in place, banks were “fully empowered” to resolve COVID-19-related stress and customise relief to individual borrowers. The various available concessions included alteration to the rate of interest and haircut on amount payable as interest; extension of the residual tenor of the loan, with or without moratorium, by up to two years; waiver of penal interest and charges; reschedule of repayment; conversion of accumulated interest into a fresh loan with deferred payment schedule; and sanction of additional loan, the Ministry said. Shrinking of economy During the hearing, Mr. Mehta said the best was being done to revive the stressed sectors. “The national economy is stressed”. He referred in passing to the shrinking of the economy in the last quarter by 23%. He had held preliminary talks with RBI officers. “Let the Central government, RBI and the bankers’ association put their heads together,” he suggested. The Bench scheduled a hearing on September 2. The court wants to know whether there will be a waiver of interest on interest during moratorium. The Finance Ministry said “a waiver of the interest on interest during moratorium would be against the basic canons of finance”. It noted, “Any moratorium is transient by its very nature and has to end one day... The best interest of the economic health of the country as well as that of borrowers would be best served by paving the way for a more durable long-term solution of debt restructuring”. Borrowers took a “conscious call while opting for a moratorium”, it stated. “Many borrowers after understanding the advantage of paying in time did not avail of the moratorium when the initially announced period of moratorium was extended from three months to six months,” the affidavit said. Any ex post facto change in the loan moratorium terms to those who availed it over those who made the “extra effort” of repaying as per schedule would be “grossly inequitable and patently unfair”, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/loan-moratorium-is-extendable-to-two-years/article32500506.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Collapse began with demonetisation : Rahul||The collapse of the Indian economy started with the November 2016 demonetisation, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi alleged on Tuesday. “GDP -23.9. The destruction of the country’s economy started with the Demonetization. Since then, the government has been bringing in wrong policies one after another,” he tweeted. Echoing him, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted the “chronology” of the slide. “1. Demonetisation & botched up GST killed growth. 2. Tax cuts put money in hands of corporates instead of people. Consumption collapsed. 3. Unplanned lockdown led to total meltdown of economy. When will Govt wake up instead of covering up?” he said. Party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also accused the Modi government of sinking the economy even though Mr. Gandhi had forewarned about an economic tsunami six months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/collapse-began-with-demonetisation-rahul/article32500535.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Probe Facebook’s ‘assault on democracy’: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claimed that international media has exposed Facebook and WhatsApp’s ‘brazen assault’ on India’s democracy and social harmony and demanded an investigation into the allegations against social media giant. Tagging an a recent article by the Wall Street Journal that questioned Facebook (FB) India employees’ neutrality, Mr Gandhi tweeted: “No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation’s affairs. They must be investigated immediately and when found guilty, punished.” In a related development, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala questioned why India’s IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had to write to FB CEO Mark Zuckerberg on alleged bias in FB’s India team. “Dear Ravi Shankar ji, If Modi Govt has an iota of credibility, why doesn’t it agree to a JPC probe into the shameless collusion between #Facebook India & BJP? Why are u running scared? Why are u giving cover fire to guilty? Why protect the colluders? Where is the 56’ chest?” asked Mr. Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-facebooks-assault-on-democracy-rahul/article32500546.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The power of Kali||Parikshit is renowned for his righteous reign and gains reputation as a royal sage, a raja rishi. He places faith in Krishna and never takes to heart the previous prophecy that he would die of snake bite as per the curse of a Brahmin boy. But such is the power of Kali and the efficacy of the prophecy that the king is led into a situation that he misreads inadvertently which brings about the curse leading to his death, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Once Parikshit goes hunting and finds that his arrow has pierced a deer which runs away. So as he chases the deer he enters the ashram of a sage who is steeped in meditation. The king asks for water and when he does not get a response, he becomes angry. Here Parikshit does not realise that the sage is in meditation. He fails to respect the sage, and gives in to his ego that he is a king. Though a wise and kind ruler, he forgets the truth that it is wrong to disturb anyone in penance and that such transgressions can bring about curses. At the moment when he is tired and thirsty, he feels he deserves to be attended immediately. So the great Parikshit who had subdued Kali is unable to escape its clutches. Getting deluded and indulging in wrong acts is common in Kali Yuga. He picks up a dead serpent and flings it across at the sage very casually and returns to his palace. The sage is not aware of the dead serpent that has landed on his neck. The sage's son Shringi who was playing nearby is told about this insult to his father. The boy though young has inherent spiritual fervour and in a moment of anger curses that the serpent Takshaka should bite and kill the king who has disgraced his father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-power-of-kali/article32500540.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Reverse decision on GST shortfall, KCR to Centre||The prescribed fiscal deficit for the Centre was 3.5 % whereas the States were restricted to 3% which was against the federal spirit of the Constitution. The argument put forth that the additional borrowings by the Centre would influence yields on the Central securities and had other macro-economic repercussions was not very convincing. Borrowings by the Centre as well as the States were from the same financial system and pool of investors. “Their impact on the macro-economic situation is not very different,” he said. It was matter of grave concern to the States that the Centre had unilaterally decided to apply 10 % growth to arrive at the gap in GST revenue for the current fiscal. Further, an artificial distinction was being made between the loss of revenue on account of GST implementation and the impact of COVID. “Such a distinction is not provided for in the Act. Statutory provisions for GST compensation has no meaning if the Centre does not honour it in letter and spirit,” he said. He wanted the Centre to reconsider the decision allowing the States to borrow to the extent of the shortfall in the compensation pay out citing few “irrefutable reasons” including the fiscal space yielded by the States to facilitate introduction of GST which had subsumed 47% of the States’ gross tax revenue while it was only 31% in respect of the Centre. Mr. Rao said it was imperative to strengthen cooperative federalism in a crisis situation: “So far, all decisions by the GST Council have been taken unanimously. I think we need to maintain this tradition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reverse-decision-on-gst-shortfall-kcr-to-centre/article32500854.ece
02 September 2020||KOCHI,||Extend loan moratorium: furniture makers||The Furniture Manufacturers’ and Merchants’ Welfare Association has appealed to the Union and State governments to intervene and extend the moratorium on bank loan repayment by six months. The furniture makers say the sector as a whole now faces serious financial problems and is not in a position to make payment of interest and compound interest after the moratorium ended in August. About 25% of the units are already closed and the numbers can go up to 35% if the government does not intervene, says association president Tommy Pulicat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extend-loan-moratorium-furniture-makers/article32500917.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Red Bull’s plea on trademark rejected||The Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB) has rejected a plea from Red Bull, manufacturer of an energy drink, for the removal of a trademark registered in the name of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited. In its petition, Red Bull said it has adopted a trademark with tagline “Gives You Wings” and said due to the extensive publicity, the concept of an animal/human acquiring wings after consumption of the Red Bull Energy Drink has become exclusively associated with it. Red Bull said in India it is the registered proprietor of the mark “Gives You Wings”. In its petition, Red Bull said its attention was drawn to the trademark registered in November 2001 with the tagline “Your Wings to Life”, in the name of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited. Red Bull also noted that Dr. Reddy’s have not undertaken any activity to commence use of the impugned registration and sought its cancellation. Dr. Reddy's did not file a counter statement. However, as per scheme of the Act, in order to decide the rectification, filing of counter-statement is not mandatory, the IPAB said. “The rival trademarks are neither deceptively similar nor identical with. The applicant mark “Your Wings to life” is not the main mark. It is the sub-brand. The goodwill and reputation alleged by the applicant is not pertaining to the main mark Red Bull,” the IPAB noted. “The question of non-user will arise if the party who is seeking rectification is an aggrieved party. In our view both trademarks are not similar,” the IPAB said and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-bulls-plea-on-trademark-rejected/article32500490.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bhushan’s conviction is against international law’||The International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) on Tuesday said civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s conviction for criminal contempt of court by the Supreme Court seemed to be inconsistent with the freedom of expression law guaranteed by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that India was a party to. In a statement, the ICJ, an international human rights organisation comprising judges and lawyers, said it joined 1,800 Indian lawyers in calling for the Supreme Court to review the standards of criminal contempt.  “While the Court only imposed a symbolic fine of one rupee, rather than imprisonment, the ICJ considers that the conviction appears to be inconsistent with international standards on freedom of expression and the role of lawyers”, said the statement, adding that the judgment risked having a “chilling effect on the exercise of protected freedom of expression in India”. “While some restrictions of freedom of expression are permitted by international standards, a particularly wide scope must be preserved for debate and discussion about such matters as the role of the judiciary, access to justice, and democracy, by members of the public, including through public commentary on the courts”, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhushans-conviction-is-against-international-law/article32500514.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||RSS wing flags changes in defence policy||The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated Swadeshi Jagaran Manch (SJM) has red flagged the raising of the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in defence production in India under the automatic route from 49% to 74%, saying that this may lead to the undermining of Indian vendors and domestic players. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the all India convenor of the SJM, Ashwani Mahajan has asked that the definition of “Indian vendor” be made clear with regard to the Defence Acquisition Policy, 2020, so that foreign entities do not get advantages over entities owned and promoted by Indian resident citizens under the “buy” and “buy and make” categories. ‘Definition diluted’ “We feel that with the changed policy allowing FDI upto 74% under the Automatic route, the definition of ‘Indian vendor’ has been diluted significantly to such an extent that any foreign company can register itself in India and acquire 74% equity and still continue to be called ‘Indian vendor’ ,” said the letter. The letter goes on to state that in the SJM’s “considered opinion”, “Indian vendor” should only mean “entities in which majority ownership and control is retained by Indian Resident Citizens”. The Centre had, last month, banned the import of 101 items related to defence and had announced a new draft acquisition policy to encourage domestic manufacture of defence equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-wing-flags-changes-in-defence-policy/article32500529.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Fall in GDP growth due to faulty policies’||The 24% fall in the GDP growth rate is a result of the Narendra Modi-led government’s faulty policies and the decline had begun much before the COVID-19 pandemic hit, the Left parties said on Tuesday. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau in a statement said, “The cumulative impact of demonetisation, GST implementation and the abrupt unplanned, unprepared national lockdown have all contributed to the destruction of the economy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fall-in-gdp-growth-due-to-faulty-policies/article32500530.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||China mourns Pranab||China on Tuesday said the passing of former President Pranab Mukherjee was “a heavy loss for China-India friendship”. “Former President Mukherjee was a veteran statesman of India,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said in Beijing. China-India relations “In his 50 years in politics, he made positive contributions to China-India relations. In 2014, he received President Xi [in India] and the two sides issued a joint statement on building a closer development partnership. It is a heavy loss for China-India friendship and to India. We express deep condolences over his passing and extend sincere sympathies to the Indian government and to his family.” The Indian Embassy in Beijing shared on Twitter photographs of the former President’s engagements with China, from his hosting of President Xi Jinping in India in 2014 to his state visit to China in 2016, when he held talks with Mr. Xi and Premier Li Keqiang and visited a Buddhist temple in Guangzhou.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-mourns-pranab/article32500536.ece
02 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Suresh Raina asks Punjab police for help||Suresh Raina, a former batsman on the Indian cricket team, has made an appeal to the Punjab police to find out who was behind the killing of his uncle, Ashok Kumar, near Pathankot in Punjab. Mr. Raina took to Twitter saying, “What happened to my family is Punjab was beyond horrible. My uncle was slaughtered, my bua & both my cousins had severe injuries. Unfortunately, my cousin also passed away last night after battling for life for days. My bua is still very very critical & is on life support.” Ashok Kumar died after being attacked by a group of people at night between August 19 and 20 at Thariyal village. Four members of the family were also injured. Tagging the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Raina added, “I request @PunjabPoliceInd to look into this matter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suresh-raina-asks-punjab-police-for-help/article32500543.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant death case: NCB detains one||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has detained one person in connection with the case registered to probe the drug angle linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The Enforcement Directorate referred the matter to the NCB on the basis of mobile phone data extracted by officials. Rhea Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda, Jaya Saha, Simone Khambatta and Gaurav Arya are under the scanner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushant-death-case-ncb-detains-one/article32500554.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Freedom fighter Babu Rao Varma passes away||Noted freedom fighter and former member of National Commission for Backward Classes Dr. Busani Babu Rao Varma passed away on Tuesday evening due to ill health. He was 93 years old and died at his residence in Durgabai Deshmukh Colony due to age-related issues and persistent liver infection, according to his family. He is survived by his only son and former IAS officer Busani Venkateshwara Rao, who retired as Additional Director General of Dr. Marri Channa Reddy HRD Institute. Cremation will take place at DD Colony Crematorium on Wednesday at 11 a.m. Born on August 28, 1927 in Hyderabad, Dr Varma, plunged into freedom struggle during his school days. He took leading part in organising protest marches condemning the then Nizam’s police atrocities in connection with Hyderabad State merger in the Indian Union. He had a successful career in the united Andhra Pradesh government where he retired as the first Director of State Backward Classes and Cooperation department. Subsequently, he served as member of the NCBC and also member of old AP Public Service Commission. An authority on the BC issues and concerns, Dr Varma continued to raise the issues at every available forum. He was instrumental in the constituting Burgula Ramakrishna Rao Foundation Committee and diligently organising functions in memory of the former Chief Minister of Hyderabad State. Even at the 121st birth anniversary of Burgula in March this year, Dr. Varma urged the State government to name Mahabubnagar-based Palamuru University in the memory of Burgula Ramakrishna Rao. As chairman of Telangana Freedom Fighters Association, he organised functions at the Ashoka Pillar in Koti year after year. He was also chairman of Gandhi Bhavan Trust. Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya condoled the passing away of Dr. Varma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/freedom-fighter-babu-rao-varma-passes-away/article32500612.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Rs. 4.47 crore belonging to IMS scam accused seized||In one of the biggest seizures of cash in disproportionate assets cases, Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Tuesday recovered Rs. 4.47 crore from a real estate company office in Hyderabad. This money belonged to Insurance Medical Services (IMS) former Director Devika Rani and pharmacist Naga Lakshmi, both of whom were accused of earning money disproportionate to their known sources of income, the ACB officials said. Eventually, cases of disproportionate assets were registered against them. They were arrested and came out later on bail. During the probe of the assets case, the ACB authorities got information that the accused parked money with different persons. Investigations revealed that they invested money with a real estate company to purchase six residential flats and commercial space admeasuring 15,000 square feet. Of the Rs. 4.47 crore, Rs. 3,75,30,000 belonged to Devika Rani and Rs. 72,00,000 to Naga Lakshmi, ACB Deputy Director Ramana Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-447-crore-belonging-to-ims-scam-accused-seized/article32500886.ece
02 September 2020||KHAMMAM,||Villagers, led by women, set fire to corporator’s car||Violent protests rocked Kaikondaigudem village in Khammam Municipal Corporation’s first division here on Tuesday as an irate group of villagers set ablaze the car of municipal corporator Darawath Rammurthy, of the ruling TRS, holding him responsible for the recent suspicious death of a local youth at a function hall near here. An altercation broke out between Mr. Rammurthy and the relatives of the deceased youth, Tejavath Anand, when the angry villagers took him to task over the suspicious death of the youth, a welder, at a function hall allegedly jointly owned by the corporator along with some others at Pedda Tanda on August 18. Alleging that the corporator scolded and kicked the hapless mother of the deceased during the wordy duel, a group of furious villagers, including several women, smashed the windowpanes of the corporator’s car in front of the local school. When the furious mob chased the corporator, he took shelter in the local school to escape their wrath, sources said. Chaotic scenes ensued when the infuriated mob damaged his car and set it on fire in a fit of rage. A large contingent of police rushed to the village and dispersed the agitated villagers. According to the TRS sources, the party mandal committee reportedly mooted action against the corporator over the Tuesday’s incident in Kakondaigudem. In a statement, Vijaya, the mother of the deceased youth, alleged that the corporator kicked her when she met him along with her husband and daughter in the village on Tuesday to inquire about the suspicious death of her son. Stating that she has already lodged a complaint with the Khammam rural police over the suspicious death of her son, the aggrieved woman sought a detailed inquiry into the death of her son and stern action against those responsible for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/villagers-led-by-women-set-fire-to-corporators-car/article32500508.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||CM wants Centre to reverse decision on GST shortfall||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the Centre to reverse its decision to ask States to meet the shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax compensation through borrowings. The Centre, as an alternative, can borrow the entire shortfall amount based on the strength of the receipts into the cess amount. The entire debt servicing – both principal and interest – can be paid from the cess collected for such an extended period, beyond 2022, as the GST Council could decide. The Chief Minister who addressed a detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the communication was with a “deep sense of concern” regarding the modalities for meeting the shortfall in the GST compensation payable by the Centre. He recalled how the State government fully supported the introduction of the GST “knowing very well that it would result in loss of revenue in the short term” keeping in view the national interest. The Chief Minister said due to the insistence of the States, it was clearly stipulated in the GST Compensation Act that full compensation for the loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST should be paid that too on a bimonthly basis. “Despite such a statutory mandate, there have been long delays in the payment of compensation. States have not been paid GST compensation since April,” he said. He said the State suffered revenue loss of 83% in April whereas COVID-19 pandemic related expenditure increased. “We are faced with the difficult task of meeting the expenditure through front loading of market borrowings, taking resort to ways and means advances and overdrafts,” he said. With the broad fiscal policy being controlled by the Centre, the States were made to depend on the Union government even to go for market borrowings. The prescribed fiscal deficit for the Centre was 3.5 % whereas the States were restricted to 3% which was against the federal spirit of the Constitution. The argument put forth that the additional borrowings by the Centre would influence yields on the Central securities and had other macro-economic repercussions was not very convincing. Borrowings by the Centre as well as the States were from the same financial system and pool of investors. “Their impact on the macro-economic situation is not very different,” he said. It was matter of grave concern to the States that the Centre had unilaterally decided to apply 10 % growth to arrive at the gap in GST revenue for the current fiscal. Further, an artificial distinction was being made between the loss of revenue on account of GST implementation and the impact of COVID. “Such a distinction is not provided for in the Act. Statutory provisions for GST compensation has no meaning if the Centre does not honour it in letter and spirit,” he said. The Chief Minister wanted the Centre to reconsider the decision allowing the States to borrow to the extent of the shortfall in the compensation pay out citing few “irrefutable reasons” including the fiscal space yielded by the States to facilitate introduction of GST which had subsumed 47% of the States’ gross tax revenue while it was only 31% in respect of the Centre. In a situation such as the pandemic, the Centre instead of extending a helping hand was denying the States their legally rightful claims. The options given to the States to borrow to meet shortfall in compensation cess were not in accordance with the Act. “Linking these options to additional borrowings allowed under Atmanirbhar package is only to deny the States full benefit of the package,” he said adding the Centre was abdicating its responsibility of fully compensating the States by taking recourse to legal opinion. The Chief Minister said it was imperative to strengthen cooperative federalism in this crisis situation so that “we can not only overcome it, but emerge as a strong nation”. “So far, all the decisions by the GST Council have been taken unanimously. I think we need to maintain this tradition in future too,” he averred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-wants-centre-to-reverse-decision-on-gst-shortfall/article32500510.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajiv Kumar takes over as Election Commissioner||Rajiv Kumar, a retired IAS officer of the 1984 batch from the Bihar/Jharkhand cadre, on Tuesday took over as Election Commissioner, filling the vacancy after Ashok Lavasa moved to the Asian Development Bank. Mr. Kumar retired as Union Finance Secretary last February, and had been Chairman of the Public Enterprises Selection Board from April 2020 till demitting office on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajiv-kumar-takes-over-as-election-commissioner/article32500517.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Retired bureaucrats demand action against Sudarshan TV||A group of 91 former civil servants, in a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, demanded legal and administrative action action against Sudarshan News channel for its trailer of a news series about the recruitment process for IAS and the IPS, which it claims has ensured a spike in the number of Muslim officers. The letter said the claim is not factual. As per the DOPT data, Muslims make up only 3.46% of the force. The group also said there were batches where not a single Muslim candidate was selected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retired-bureaucrats-demand-action-against-sudarshan-tv/article32500526.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Curated marijuana sourced from U.S. and Canada seized||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seized 3.5 kg curated marijuana sourced from abroad, in an operation carried out in Delhi and Mumbai. The contraband, popularly known as “bud”, was seized in Delhi. It was illegally imported from the U.S. and was destined for Mumbai. The one seized in Mumbai was sourced from Canada and was to be transferred to Goa, said NCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curated-marijuana-sourced-from-us-and-canada-seized/article32500525.ece
02 September 2020||Patna,||RJD MLA joins JD(U)||With the Bihar Assembly poll round the corner, Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA Birendra Kumar on Tuesday joined the ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U), while the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) declared it would contest for 50 seats in the State. Mr. Kumar is the seventh RJD MLA to join the JD(U) in the past fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rjd-mla-joins-jdu/article32500524.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How the jewellery trade grew far beyond Sowcarpet||Gold has always been an integral part of this old city, and holds a sentimental value among the people. The glitter of the yellow metal continues to draw people despite the changing era and sky-rocketing prices. In the early 1900s, the pincode 600001, for Sowcarpet or George Town, was the hub for the gold market. It is one of the few trades that continues to be a family business for generations. Unlike the swanky showrooms that showcase a wide range of stunning ornaments now, rows of gold shops during 1940s and 1950s were spread over hardly 200-300 sq. ft. and dealt with only gold bars. Nearly 80% of the jewellery were made on orders, recalled jewellers. The city is still home to several brands, including Mehta Jewellery, Vummidi Bangaru Jewellers (VBJ) and LKS Gold House, that had their humble beginning on NSC Bose Road or at George Town almost a century ago. “The speciality then was exclusive designs and the personal attention provided to customers. Each jeweller could be identified by the quality of ornaments and we had our own batch of goldsmiths who used to make jewels out of gold bars given to them. They were either paid in cash or gold bars,” said L.K.S. Syed Ahmed, chairman, LKS Gold House, and chief adviser, Tamil Nadu Gold Jewellery Federation. Though the brand was started in 1925, LKS Gold House had its first city branch at Rattan Bazaar in 1945. NSC Bose Road housed both gold shops and goldsmiths in the same hub. The concept of retail jewellery business and ready-made ornaments became popular during the early 1970s with jewellers adapting themselves to the changing mindset of people and the growing demand. While Sowcarpet still retains the traditional flavour of the gold market, a new breed of wholesalers invaded the Madras market in the 1980s and brought in designs and machine-cut ornaments from places, including Mumbai and Kolkata. “Wholesalers flourished after the government provided relaxations in the Gold (Control) Act (which was repealed in 1990), and they provided ornaments on credit to jewellers. But some jewellers like us employ goldsmiths even now to manufacture exclusive designs,” said Mr. Ahmed. With Sowcarpet becoming congested, many jewellers began eyeing T. Nagar as a potential retail hub with parking space as most of the customer base was in south Chennai. “The jewellery business in Madras from a century ago until now is known for its affinity to quality and ethics,” said Amarendran Vummidi, Managing Partner, VBJ. While T. Nagar now might be a bustling shopping hub filled with jewellery showrooms, Mr. Vummidi recalls that his family had purchased 6 grounds then and had the foresight to earmark 4 grounds for parking space. If jewellery brands now take to aggressive advertising on television and print publications, they got the word out a lot more differently a century ago. In 1890, P. Orr & Sons, which was also a renowned jewellery-maker then, circulated an illustrated catalogue carrying details of 400 items it had for sale — including jewellery, watches, clocks and cutlery. Until the early 1970s, goldsmiths dominated the gold market. Each family had its own ‘achari’, who made ornaments for special occasions. Edapalayam, off NSC Bose Road, remains a goldsmiths’ hub. M. Mannivannan, a second-generation goldsmith at Sowcarpet, recalled how his father used to make gold bangles enough to fill a few bamboo baskets. A dip in margins and the need for heavier investments have driven several traditional goldsmith families to other professions. Now, corporate firms, too, have entered the jewellery retail business. However, for the existing jewellers, the focus still remains on what the city’s jewellery trade was famed for a century ago — quality and upholding of the trust of customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-the-jewellery-trade-grew-far-beyond-sowcarpet/article32500706.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested, 16.5 kg ganja seized after raid on a house in Taramani||The police seized 16.5 kg ganja and arrested four persons from a thickly-populated residential area in Taramani on Monday. The Taramani inspector received information on the storage of contraband at a house. A police team mounted surveillance on the house located on Arangannal Street and raided it. On Monday evening, they found 16.5 kg ganja concealed in the house meant for sale at several outlets in the city. The police arrested D. Sekar alias ‘City’ Sekar, 55, of Arangannal Street, his son Deva, 30, of Mattangkuppam and their associates E. Ajithkumar, 26, of Triplicane and G. Aravindh, 25, of T. Nagar. The police seized the contraband from them and three bikes used for selling the ganja. Andhra Pradesh link The investigation revealed that they had procured the ganja from Andhra Pradesh and supplied it to youth in Taramani, Velachery and Thiruvanmiyur. According to a press release from the office of City Police Commissioner, the police have arrested 132 ganja peddlers and seized 807.31 kg ganja from them from July 6 until August 31. Special teams have been constituted under inspectors in their respective jurisdictions and constant raids are being conducted following an alert. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has warned of stringent action against those smuggling ganja into the city and indulging in selling it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-165-kg-ganja-seized-after-raid-on-a-house-in-taramani/article32500678.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,928 test positive for COVID-19 in State; 6,031 patients discharged||A total of 5,928 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. As many as 6,031 persons were discharged after treatment, while 96 deaths were recorded. The State’s overall case tally increased to 4,33,969, of which 52,379 persons are currently undergoing treatment, 3,74,172 have been discharged, and 7,418 have succumbed to the infection. Chennai recorded a marginal dip in fresh infections with 1,084 persons (including an imported case) testing positive for COVID-19. The city has a total of 1,36,697 cases, including 13,107 active cases. Officials of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said cases continued to surge in Coimbatore, Cuddalore and Salem, while the other districts of concern were Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. In Coimbatore, 581 persons (including four imported cases) tested positive. As many as 335 persons in Salem and 286 persons in Cuddalore also tested positive. There were 384 cases in Chengalpattu, 296 in Tiruvallur and 191 in Kancheepuram. There were 209 cases in Kallakurichi and 182 in Ranipet. “Social factors may be the reason for cases continuing to be in the same range in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. These are areas adjoining Chennai, and factors such as crowding, high population density and movement of people are at play,” a health official said.  Among the 96 fatalities (61 in government and 35 in private hospitals), Chennai accounted for 22 deaths, while Salem recorded 10 and Chengalpattu 9. Eight died in Tiruvallur. Two private laboratories — Life Care Diagnostics, Madurai, and Molecular Lab, Apollo KH Hospital, Ranipet — were approved for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5928-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-state-6031-patients-discharged/article32500694.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo doctors save Georgian national’s leg||A 46-year-old Georgian national whose leg was crushed on a ship was recently treated at Apollo Hospitals here. Malkhaz Surmanidize, vice-captain of a cargo ship, had his leg crushed when it got caught in a chain of containers on June 23. His colleagues managed to rush him to a hospital in north Chennai. He was then referred to Apollo Hospitals. By the time he reached Apollo Hospitals, over 10 hours were lost. Rajarajan Venkatesan, senior consultant vascular surgeon, who operated on Mr. Surmanidize, said the golden hour for such injuries were 4-6 hours after which the limb would have to be amputated. However, in this case, doctors decided to preserve the patient’s limb. Revascularisation done The consultant found that the injured leg was swollen with advanced ischaemia. There was no sensation from thigh to foot. The doctors took him for an emergency surgery and decided to do revascularisation by taking the popliteal artery from the other leg and grafting it on to the injured leg. The patient had to undergo debridement. Leela Praveen, consultant plastic and micro vascular surgeon, managed the patient post-surgery. Later, the patient underwent skin grafting and physiotherapy. He has since returned to Georgia. The ambassador of Georgia, Archil Dzuliashvili, called on Mr. Surmanidize at the hospital and complimented the Apollo team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-doctors-save-georgian-nationals-leg/article32500713.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Domestic workers ignored during pandemic, says union||A large number of domestic workers from Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu came together in smaller groups in their respective areas to highlight their plight because of the COVID-19 lockdown over the past five months. Alleging that the government had largely been indifferent to their sufferings, the workers appealed to the government to have a formal dialogue with them on the issue. They demanded Rs. 10,000 as compensation to each worker and free bus passes for the next few months for them to commute to work. Sujata Mody, president of Penn Thozhilalargal Sangam (PTS), which coordinated the protest, said of 6,000-odd members, roughly 80%-90% did not have a job for the past five months. “Our rough estimates show that each of them have lost at least Rs. 7,000 a month from their regular earnings. This means unpaid rent, unpaid loans and other such burden for them,” she said. Although related restrictions had been relaxed, lack of transport and stigma and fear about the spread of the disease had made it difficult for these workers to continue their employment. Sadly domestic workers had been missing from the discussions on the impact of COVID-19, she said.  Our rough estimates show that each of them have lost at least Rs. 7,000 a month from their regular earnings Sujata Mody  President, Penn Thozhilalargal Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/domestic-workers-ignored-during-pandemic-says-union/article32500673.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman keeps son’s body at home for three days||The Thirunindravur police are probing the case of a woman keeping the body of her son for three days at home. The police said Saraswathi, 35, a homoeopath and separated from her husband, had her practice in Bengaluru. She was living with her seven-year-old son who was studying class 3 in Thirunindravur. The mother and son were living on rent from a medical shop on their premises. She had an irregular income from her practice as well, said the police. After the lockdown, the medical shop was closed. The woman and her son were living alone. On Monday, the woman called the police control room and said that she and her son were starving as she had no income during the lockdown. Then she hung up. Police traced her home. Neighbours alerted the police about bad odour emanating from the house. Police found the windows and doors of the house bolted from inside. When the woman opened the door, the police found the body of the boy. The woman appeared to be clueless about disposing of her son’s body. She had been sitting with it for three days, the police said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the boy had been ill for sometime. The woman seemed to be depressed, the police said. The body was sent to Government Kilpauk Hospital for a post-mortem. Further investigations are on to find out why the boy died.  The mother and son were reportedly living on rent from a medical shop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-keeps-sons-body-for-three-days/article32500671.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||House session at Kalaivanar Arangam from Sept. 14||The next session of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will be held at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai from September 14. An official communication in this regard was notified by Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan on Tuesday evening.  The Hindu had on August 22 reported that the multi-purpose hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Salai was being actively considered as a venue as the present Assembly Hall at Fort St. George lacked space to ensure physical distancing among legislators. According to the report, Kalaivanar Arangam would most likely host the session as the sprawling hall would help ensure physical distancing norms for the MLAs for the forthcoming session. The session scheduled to commence at 10 a.m. on September 14 is most likely to go on for only a few days, a source said. It may be recalled that the budget session of the House had to be adjourned sine die in March this year, days before the actual schedule, due to the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-to-be-held-at-kalaivanar-arangam/article32500686.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State tops in suicides driven by family problems||“Each suicide is a personal tragedy that prematurely takes the life of an individual and has a continuing ripple effect, dramatically affecting the lives of families, friends and communities…,” are the first few lines in the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on ‘Suicides in India’ for the year 2019 published on Tuesday. While the total number of suicides reported across the country last year stood at 1,39,133, Tamil Nadu took the second place after Maharashtra with 13,439 cases, including 4,250 women and 8 members of the third gender. A majority of victims were in the age group of 18-45 and educated.The State took second place for the third year. Tamil Nadu reported the maximum of 16 cases of mass/family suicides involving the deaths of 43 persons followed by Andhra Pradesh (4 cases, 36 deaths), Kerala (11 cases, 24 deaths) and Rajasthan (7 cases, 22 deaths), data revealed. The State reported that 2,501 persons ended their lives owing to illness. As many as 2,501 people took the extreme step due to career or business setbacks and 215 students died after failing in exams. The data showed that 6,843 people decided to end their lives due to family problems.  Loss of dear ones Tamil Nadu had the highest of 219 suicides by people who could not endure the death of their dear ones. Over 500 people, mostly women, died by suicide due to marriage issues and 656 others killed themselves unable to handle complications arising out of love affairs. Suicides attributed to drug abuse and addiction to alcohol were put at 1,042 cases. The national data revealed that five states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka — accounted for 49.5% of the total suicides reported in the country. Chennai-based psychiatrist Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, who is also the founder of Sneha, a suicide prevention centre where volunteers offer unconditional support for the distressed, depressed or suicidal, said media had a crucial role to play in the prevention of suicides. Since sensational reporting of suicides could trigger copycat suicides, the media should practice sensible portrayal of such cases. Madurai-based psychiatrist C. Ramasubramanian said every suicide was a cry for help and in many incidents victims showed clear signs of unhappiness or extreme stress before ending their lives.  (People in need of counselling can reach out to the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-tops-in-suicides-driven-by-family-problems/article32500690.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Places of worship open amid curbs||After five months and amid restrictions, places of worship in the State opened on Tuesday, but most of them witnessed a limited number of devotees. As Rahu Ketu Peyarchi happened on Tuesday, shrines for these deities saw good crowds. In Chennai, police and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department officials ensured that devotees did not barge in and placed barricades and ropes early in the morning itself. The devotees were let in one by one. In some temples, senior citizens stood at the ‘Gopura vaasal’ and had darshan. Though major temples under the HR and CE Department had drawn circles on the floor to ensure personal distancing, smaller temples are yet to carry out these instructions. The Sri Ranaganathaswamy temple in Srirangam had about 1,500 persons and 2,000 persons visited the Mariamman temple at Samayapuram by 1 p.m. The Punnainallur Mariamman temple saw around 900 devotees, the Big Temple in Thanjavur 650 persons by afternoon. At the Sri Nellaiyappar-Gandhimathi Amman temple in Tirunelveli, devotees were allowed to visit only the main sannidhis as was the rule in all major temples. As devotees aged above 65 and below 10 were not allowed, many were disappointed. In the Subramaniyaswamy temple in Tiruchendur, free darshan has been restricted to 2,000 devotees a day. Over 2,000 persons visited the Meenakshi-Sundareswarar temple in Madurai.  To control crowding, the HR and CE Department has introduced a token system. Those wanting to enter temples can either go directly to the place of worship, get tokens and enter according to the time mentioned or apply online. In the mosques, the ‘Fajr’ namaz (prayers) started in the early hours. The Holy Masses were conducted in all parish churches and in the Cathedral of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Palayamkottai. At the Gurudhwara at T. Nagar, Chennai, only 40 devotees came for prayers. In Nagapattinam district, most major places of worship, except a few such as the Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health at Velankanni and the Nagore Dargah, opened for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/places-of-worship-open-amid-curbs/article32500699.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Intra-district bus services resume||Intra-district bus services resumed across Tamil Nadu after a long gap on Tuesday. Patronage, however, was low. As inter-district bus services have not resumed, passengers had to get down at the district borders and board a moffusil or town bus to reach their destinations. The bus services were stopped across the State on March 23. However, from June 1, the State was divided into eight zones and limited services were allowed in districts, except Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. The services were again stopped on June 25, owing to the surge in COVID-19 cases. Addressing reporters after inspecting disinfection measures at a depot near Pallavan House in Chennai, Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar said 6,000 of the total 22,000 buses were operated across the State. “The patronage was very low on Tuesday. We expect the number to increase gradually, and simultaneously the number of buses being operated will also be increased,” he said. In Chennai, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation resumed services. However, the number of passengers on most routes was very low. Officials and crew expect it to increase in the coming days. Intra-district bus services resumed from depots in Cuddalore, Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts. An official said the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) was operating only 50% of buses and the number of passengers was expected to increase gradually. No buses were being operated to neighbouring Puducherry, he said. In Virudhunagar, patronage was low for the limited number of buses operated on Tuesday. According to Collector R. Kannan, the TNSTC was operating 82 urban services within towns and 12 rural services connecting different parts of the district. The TNSTC’s Coimbatore Division operated 800 buses in four districts. The central districts also saw poor patronage. In the Tiruchi region that covers the depots in Tiruchi, Musiri, Thuraiyur, Manapparai, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Jayankondam, the TNSTC operated just 50% of its fleet.  (With inputs from   Chennai, Cuddalore,   Virudhunagar, Tiruchi   and Coimbatore)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intra-district-bus-services-resume/article32500703.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. stops erecting barricades||The Greater Chennai Corporation has stopped the practice of erecting barricades at homes of COVID-19 patients, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Mr. Prakash told presspersons on Tuesday that the patients were cooperating with civic officials. “We will balance the need for promoting economic activity and COVID-19 management. Another three months are crucial,” he said. New quarantine rules Pointing to the regulations pertaining to the arrival of people from other States and countries, Mr. Prakash said the civic body had stopped institutional quarantine of such passengers and permitted their home quarantine for 14 days. “Passengers who have symptoms will be tested for COVID-19. We will not test all passengers. Those who reach the city from other districts of Tamil Nadu do not need to be on home quarantine,” said Mr. Prakash. The COVID-19 management system would continue for another three months. “We have tested 11 lakh persons for COVID-19. The number of persons tested was five lakh 35 days ago. This is a period of stability. But this un-lockdown phase is expected to be challenging. We need better management when public transport is permitted. We will focus on mask wearing and physical distancing. Any shop with violations will be locked and sealed for 14 days,” said Mr. Prakash. Those who spit on the road will have to pay a fine of Rs. 500. Stressing on the need for safeguarding the livelihood of street vendors, Mr. Prakash said thousands of vendors on Marina beach were expected to get a source of livelihood after the government takes a decision in two days. All the volunteers who are working during the pandemic would get a certificate of appreciation from the Corporation.  Any shop violating safety norms will be locked and sealed for 14 days  G. PrakashCommissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-stops-erecting-barricades/article32500672.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Property attached in bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached six immovable properties worth Rs. 20.65 crore belonging to S. Galeel Rahman under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, in a bank fraud case. A factory building and a parcel of land measuring 2.92 acres at the Konamedu Industrial Estate at Vaniyambadi, a residential flat in Chennai and plots in Vellore belonging to Mr. Rahman were attached. According to a statement from the Enforcement Directorate, investigations were initiated under provisions of the PMLA based on an FIR registered by the CBI (ACB)-Chennai against Tomy G. Poovattil, Galeel Rahman and others for defrauding Indian Bank, Guindy branch, Chennai. Investigations revealed that between 2012 and 2014, Poovattil, who was the then Guindy branch manager of Indian Bank, had conspired with Galeel Rahman, Sirajuddin and others to cheat the bank by fraudulently sanctioning overdraft and credit facilities to various entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/property-attached-in-bank-fraud-case/article32500710.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks can decide on staff attendance: panel||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), Tamil Nadu, has said its member banks could decide whether pregnant staff and those with co-morbidities should report to the office premises for work. The State government has allowed banks to function with 100% staff, following which SLBC has issued these instructions. According to the instructions, all bank branches and offices could function with 100% staff under normal working hours. Due to the cancellation of the complete lockdown on Sundays, those working that day could function as usual from September 1. Employees from containment zones need not attend office, however prior permission from relevant authorities should be obtained, it said. The functioning of banks in containment zones would continue to be guided by the directions given by the appropriate authorities, the circular said. The committee also said the footfall in branches was expected to increase as both the public, private bus transport and Metro Rail services resume. In anticipation of this, it instructed all banks, ATMs, cash deposit machines and cash recyclers to be kept functional. Member banks have been requested to deploy their business correspondents proactively to minimise crowding and encourage transactions through electronic channels. In addition, mobile ATMs with sufficient cash should be arranged whenever required to withdraw cash, SLBC said. It also said precautionary measures should be followed strictly. As Skills and Industrial Training Institutes will be permitted to function from September 21, banks with such facilities should be prepared, SLBC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-can-decide-on-staff-attendance-panel/article32500712.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK general council meet on Sept.9||The general council of the DMK will meet via video conferencing on September 9 to elect the party general secretary and treasurer, its president M.K. Stalin announced on Tuesday. The general secretary post fell vacant after the death of K. Anbazhagan and the general council meeting originally slated for March was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Party sources said party treasurer Duraimurugan is likely to be elected as the general secretary and DMK Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu is expected to replace Mr. Duraimurugan as treasurer. Mr. Stalin said the district secretaries meeting would be held on September 3. ‘Revoke toll hike’ Meanwhile, Mr. Stalin urged the State government to cancel the increase in toll rates on highways. He charged that the hike had proved that the government had no concern for the people who were deprived of their livelihood because of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement here, he said the hike in toll from Rs. 5 to Rs. 15 in the 20 toll gates would be a burden to people who would return to cities to rebuild their lives. “The increase has come as a double-whammy to the people whose lives have been crippled by the lockdown,” he said. ‘Industries struggling’ Reacting to the contention of officials that the increase was normal, Mr.Stalin said it could not be normal in unprecedented times. “There are no jobs as factories have been closed. Small and medium industries are struggling for survival and production has come to a standstill. Increase in the price of petrol and diesel along with toll was unacceptable,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the government should not come to the conclusion that relaxation of lockdown rules would give a fillip to the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-general-council-meet-on-september-9/article32500684.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘A bliss to watch Adyar transform over the years’||Decades ago, Sambasivam Padmanabhan would cycle through laterite soil roads to his school in Adyar, his little sister on the carrier, with barely any building or vehicle around. “Occasionally, we would spot an Ambassador car or a Morris Minor and would get excited,” reminisces the 57-year-old Padmanabhan, one of the long-time residents of Adyar. Today, it is quite refreshing to see trees bordering several roads in this area. The Besant Nagar beach is a hub of sorts today, with a host of restaurants close by. “But it would be empty back then in the 1960s and we would hardly see anyone. The whole area has transformed now,” he adds. Like his grandfather and father, he thoroughly enjoys taking a walk in the Theosophical Society. “It feels like walking in an oxygen chamber, completely at peace,” he says. In all these years of living in Adyar, one incident he says that will always stay with him was to witness Adyar river in spate. “I had to leave home and stay in a hotel for a day, looking at the water level rising rapidly. Had the rains not stopped, the situation would have been far worse,” he says. From eagerly waiting to watch Indira Gandhi and then the Dalai Lama travel through these roads, he cherishes living in Adyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-bliss-to-watch-adyar-transform-over-the-years/article32500697.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Show records of last year’s Thambraas meet, says HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Thamizhnadu Brahmin Association (Thambraas) to produce the minutes of its general body meeting held on October 22 to find out whether the issue of no confidence against its president N. Narayanan, due to his name having been raised in the ‘Me Too’ movement, was discussed or not. Justice P.T. Asha directed advocate G. Nanmaran, representing Thambraas, to produce the minutes by September 8. The direction was issued while hearing arguments on a civil suit preferred by the association against Indian Bank for not letting its president to operate a bank account due to a dispute between two factions in the association. Mr. Nanmaran told the judge that the bank had taken the decision to freeze the account solely on the basis of a letter written to it by ousted vice-president N. Hariharamuthu. He also stated that a general body meeting convened against his client by Mr. Hariharamuthu’s faction on June 2, 2019, was against the bylaws of the association. On the other hand, Ramaswamy Meyyappan, counsel for Mr. Hariharamuthu, said many members of the association were unhappy with Mr. Narayanan due to him bening named in the ‘Me Too’ controversy. Though the charges were of a personal nature, they had brought disrepute to the association, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/show-records-of-last-years-thambraas-meet-says-hc/article32500688.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On Cancer Institute||In response to the article, ‘Tracing the transformation of Madras into a medical hub’, V. Shanta, chairperson of the Cancer Institute (WIA), Adyar, said the institute was the first hospital dedicated to cancer care in south India and the second in the country. It was founded in 1954 by a group of voluntary women social workers under the leadership of Muthulakshmi Reddy. Most of the corporates came much later, she noted. She said it was the only specialised hospital with many firsts to its credit, and provided the underprivileged treatment which was not available to them even in government hospitals in the 1950s. “Our patients come from far and wide, using whatever means of transport available. For them, our institute is the hub of cancer care,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-cancer-institute/article32500707.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lean business marks reopening of malls||Business was lean on day one of the reopening of malls across the State after months of lockdown. On Tuesday, Chennai's prominent malls saw only serious buyers walking in, despite many retail outlets being open for business. “It was encouraging to see a sizeable number of people walk into the mall. We expect the number to gradually increase during the weekends. We were glad to see people adhere to COVID protocols and shop responsibly,” said Pooja Patti, centre director, Phoenix Market City and Palladium. “Of the 315 shops, 162 opened on day one, and the others will open over the next 2-3 days.” At Express Avenue, around 200 shops opened their shutters on Tuesday. The mall has 220 outlets in total. “A few shops at the food court will open in the next 48 hours, once they get sufficient manpower,” said Munish Khanna, chief revenue officer, Express Avenue. “The management has also waived off rent for the lockdown period [based on certain parameters]. Going forward, rentals will be charged based on the sales that each store garners,” he said. Food brands operating out of malls said they were waiting for some of their workers to return by this weekend, and would then commence business. T.N. has at least 25 malls providing employment to over 45,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lean-business-marks-reopening-of-malls/article32500692.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire and Rescue Services personnel donate plasma||A total of 29 personnel attached to the Fire and Rescue Services, who recovered from COVID-19, donated plasma at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Tuesday. Till date, 225 COVID-19 patients have received convalescent plasma at RGGGH, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Disinfection exercise The Minister said that the Fire and Rescue Services personnel were in the frontline and carried out massive disinfection activities across the State, including the government hospitals in Chennai. “Already, police personnel who had recovered from COVID-19 donated plasma. Now, personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services have donated plasma, and this will help in saving many lives,” he said. Since the inception of the plasma bank at RGGGH, 169 persons have donated plasma, according to hospital authorities. Work to establish plasma banks in districts across the State including Madurai, Tirunelveli and Thanjavur are underway, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. C. Sylendra Babu, DGP and director of Fire and Rescue Services and N. Priya Ravichandran, regional joint director, Fire and Rescue Services participated. E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-and-rescue-services-personnel-donate-plasma/article32500681.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||G.O. on fuel tax quashed||The Madras High Court has quashed a G.O. issued by the Puducherry government on May 27 for increasing the tax rates on petrol and diesel from 22.5% and 18.5% to 28% and 21.8% respectively for a period of three months. Justice Anita Sumanth quashed the G.O. on the ground that the government ought not to have invoked Section 31 of the Puducherry Value Added Tax Act of 2007, since the provision could be invoked only to reduce the tax and not to increase it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-on-fuel-tax-quashed/article32500719.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||B. Arch kickstarts JEE (Main)||Candidates aspiring to pursue B. Arch programmes took up the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) on Tuesday. The test was conducted in the city with several norms in place, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and was conducted over two shifts. Around 8,325 more students in the State have registered for the JEE (Main) this year. In the January edition of the exam, 45,440 candidates had registered whereas for the April edition of the test, which had since been postponed to September, as many as 53,765 students have registered. The number of test centres has been increased from 23 to 34 in Tamil Nadu. Candidates in most centres were asked to report as early as 7.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Distancing norms “While we went wearing a disposable mask, the centre gave us a fresh mask to wear and we had people checking our temperature as well,” said Subish Daniel, a student who appeared for the test. Since it was a computerised test, an alternate system of seating was followed to ensure that physical distancing norms were followed. From Wednesday till September 6, candidates aspiring for the BE/B. Tech programmes will take up the JEE (Main) test. The marks are used for admission to the National Institutes of Technology and central government-funded engineering institutions, besides some private universities. Candidates who qualify in JEE (Main) are eligible to appear for the JEE (Advanced) which is necessary for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology. The advanced test will be held on September 27 and will be conducted by IIT Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jee-main-begins-with-b-arch/article32500691.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quiz contest for children||Rajan Eye Care Hospital is organising a quiz competition “For your eyes only” for children from Class 6 to 12 on Saturday and Sunday. Highlighting that it was a quiz “to celebrate the gift of vision,” the hospital said the competition would be conducted online. The preliminary round will be conducted through the Quizizz platform with 20 questions. Five starred questions among these will be used to resolve tie-breakers. Detailed instructions will be emailed to the registered participants ahead of the preliminary round on Saturday. Top six teams from the preliminary round will go to the finals on Sunday, Interested students can register viahttps: //forms.gle/ D7qYJgCtYsQzbkqs7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quiz-contest-for-children/article32500674.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Final year semester exams after Sept. 15||The final year semester exams for all universities, including technical institutions functioning under the Department of Higher Education, will be held after September 15, Minister K.P. Anbalagan has said. In a release, the Minister said the details such as time table and exam centres would be released shortly. Students would have to take the physical pen and paper exams, he has said. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions has planned to open the website for architecture programme aspirants. Applications for B. Arch programme may be downloaded fromwww.tneaonline.orgwebsite from September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-year-semester-exams-after-sept-15/article32500676.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver ends life on return from police station||A 45-year-old auto driver ended his life allegedly after he was taken to a police station for enquiry. The police, however, insisted that no excesses were committed. The deceased has been identified as Rajendran, 45, of Kannagi Nagar. Following a tip-off that he allowed some criminals to hide in his house on Monday, a team from the Kannagi Nagar police station reached there, and found Rajendran inebriated. He allegedly abused the police personnel. He was taken to the police station and let off after a warning. After coming back from the police station, he ended his life at his home, sources said. A case has been registered. Those who need counselling may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-ends-life-on-returning-home-from-police-station/article32500679.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM welcomes SC judgment||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday welcomed the Supreme Court judgment upholding the State governments’ rights to reserve 50% seats in PG diploma medical programmes for medical officers in government service. Mr. Palaniswami took credit for the SC order and pointed out that the Tamil Nadu had engaged senior legal counsels to argue the case originally. “It is our [AIADMK] government which protected our rights in reserving seats for medical officers in the State, who have been serving the people in the rural and hilly areas and the poor and the downtrodden,” he contended.  Coimbatore Staff Reporter adds The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) has hailed the Supreme Court's order that States are empowered to make special provisions for granting quota to in-service doctors for post-graduate admissions. The order will give a boost to doctors who work in Government hospitals in remote, rural, and hilly areas, the association said. N. Ravishankar, State secretary of TNGDA, told The Hindu that the association had been pressing for the quota and the order of the five-judge Constitution bench of the Apex court was historical. “TNGDA thanks Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and Health Minister for persistently taking up the issue. The court's order will encourage more doctors to come into Government services in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-welcomes-sc-judgment/article32500714.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GST collections decline by 12 % in August||Tamil Nadu’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections declined 12% to Rs. 5,243 crore in August 2020 from Rs. 5,943 crore in August 2019, data released by Union Finance Ministry on Tuesday showed. However, there was a recovery from a 24% fall in July 2020. In August, more relaxations were granted in the State for commercial activities. Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, the State’s GST collections had declined 24% to Rs. 4,635 crore in July 2020 when compared to Rs. 6,084 crore in July 2019. In June 2020, the GST collections declined 15% to Rs. 4,976 crore from Rs. 5,881 crore in June 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-collections-decline-by-12-in-august/article32500687.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music College admissions||The Government Music College has invited applications online for its degree and diploma for 2020-2021. September 7 is the last date to apply. A stipend of Rs. 500 will be paid. Those who have passed Class 10 and 12 are eligible. For details, visitwww. tamilnaduartandculure @tn.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/music-college-admissions/article32500675.ece
02 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials told to focus on contact tracing||Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani on Tuesday directed the officials to focus on contact tracing in the urban areas of Coimbatore, by constituting an assistant engineer-level team. The team should trace people who are in contact with COVID-19 positive persons and isolate them at the earliest. Mr. Velumani reviewed the COVID-19 management works in the district at a meeting held at his office on Tuesday. According to Mr. Velumani, Coimbatore district was witnessing a good recovery rate and the number of deaths due to COVID-19 remained low. He said the district had 6,120 beds in Government, private hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) to treat COVID-19 positive persons. At the CCC in Codissia Trade Fair Complex, 428 patients were given Siddha treatment. Labs advised District Collector Rajamani held a separate meeting with representatives of private laboratories and principals of nursing colleges in the district on Tuesday. He directed the laboratories to avoid delays in releasing COVID-19 test results. They were told to charge the tests as prescribed by the Government and the results should be informed to the person concerned within 12 hours. Also, they need to ensure that those tested positive for COVID-19 were hospitalised. Mr. Rajamani told principals of nursing colleges that they should come forward to support in COVID-19 management through nurses or trainee doctors who are ready to volunteer. The district administration will take care of their food, accommodation and personal protective equipment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-told-to-focus-on-contact-tracing/article32500737.ece
02 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pr oject T hadam to address human-elep hant conflict in Coimbatore Forest Division||Coimbatore Forest Division has developed a community information network involving various stakeholders in all the seven forest ranges where human-elephant conflict is a common problem. This is because, majority of the victims of elephant attacks lacked information on the presence of wild elephants outside forests. Under the initiative named ‘Project Thadam’ , each forest range has started a WhatsApp group in which stakeholders, including farmers, villagers, members of non-Governmental organisations and field staff of the Forest Department, share information on the movement of elephants. “Human-elephant conflict is more than an environmental issue. It also involves socio-economic aspects of the people affected, mostly farmers. Many elephants have become habitual crop raiders and the government is paying compensation for the damages. But human casualties can be avoided if we have real time information on the movement of elephants outside forests. Project Thadam was started to keep people informed about wild elephants that stray from forest and ensure their safety,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle. According to him, habitual crop raider elephants and those raiding crops while moving from one location to another were present in Coimbatore Forest Division. “We may not be able to stop the human-elephant conflicts all of a sudden. We need to develop an elephant compatible livelihood/lifestyle,” he said. A similar community information network was introduced in Gudalur Forest Division in the Nilgiris in 2015 and the forewarning system was found effective. “The initiative was started a week ago. The results of the community information network will be assessed soon,” said D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division. Unlike SMS-based alert systems, wherein push messages are sent to people of a particular location about the presence of elephants, WhatsApp groups also provide room for stakeholders to interact. “Securing the goodwill and cooperation of all stakeholders, hearing grievances and addressing them, promoting participatory conflict management by getting inputs from various stakeholders and engaging NGOs and self interest groups in conservation are other objectives of Project Thadam ,” added Mr. Anwardeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pr-oject-t-hadam-to-address-human-elep-hant-conflict-in-coimbatore-forest-division/article32500751.ece
02 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Drill on rescue of flood victims held||Nearly 30 personnel from Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services conducted a drill ahead of the northeast monsoon at Kurichi Tank on Monday. The drill was led by District Fire Officer R. Jegadish. Officials from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services said that the drill included rescue of drowning persons in a flood situation and the use of equipment such as life boats, lifebuoys and life jackets. As part of the drill, two personnel were rescued from the waters in Kurichi tank.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  In Salem, personnel from Shevapet fire station conducted the drill at Mookaneri lake. Fire personnel advised the public on how to use articles such as tyre tubes, plastic bottles and tightly closed cans to stay afloat in case of water inundation in low-lying areas here. The public were also informed on first aid techniques. According to officials, low- lying areas in the district has been identified through disaster management officials and necessary precautionary measures have been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drill-on-rescue-of-flood-victims-held/article32500748.ece
02 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to witness political change soon: Murugan||Tamil Nadu will witness a “major change” on the political front by December this year or January 2021, asserted Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan in Coimbatore on Tuesday. Responding to a question on whether more leaders from other political parties will join the BJP in the coming days, he said, “Many are ready to come,” but refused to elaborate further. Mr. Murugan claimed that the BJP might win in 60 Assembly constituencies in the 2021 elections according to an internal survey done by the party. While he said that the BJP considers the Kongu region as its “stronghold,” he did not name any specific constituencies. However, he clarified that the alliance talks with the AIADMK have not started yet. Responding to a question on BJP leader H. Raja's recent criticism on AIADMK ministers, Mr. Murugan said that the speeches made by the ministers “must not be in a manner that could split” the AIADMK-BJP alliance. Describing actor Rajinikanth as a “nationalist” and a “spiritualist,” Mr. Murugan said that the BJP will welcome his entry into politics. “Ensuring the victory of a considerable number of our MLAs in the Assembly election is our goal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-witness-political-change-soon-says-murugan/article32500759.ece
02 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizen bludgeoned to death with cricket bat||Sulur Police are on the lookout for a man who bludgeoned a 60-year-old man to death with a cricket bat on Avinashi Road near Neelambur on Monday morning. The police said that the incident was recorded in the surveillance camera of a private college in that area. G. Kaliappan, a resident of Neelambur, was killed by an unknown person, who waited for the former on the highway, police said. The incident happened at a spot between a star hotel and a private college. An unknown person came to the spot on a two-wheeler a little before 6 a.m. on Monday. Kaliappan passed him at 6 a.m., while walking towards Neelambur town. The man drew a cricket bat he kept in the two-wheeler and hit Kaliappan, a former employee of a foundry at Neelambur, from behind. The assailant then fled on the two-wheeler. Kaliappan was admitted to a private hospital at Neelambur where he died around 4 a.m. The body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Sulur Police registered a case based on the complaint lodged by the son of the deceased. Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu formed four special teams for investigation. Sulur Inspector Sundara Pandian said efforts were on to trace the assailant.  Woman, daughter   found dead  A 26-year-old woman and her one-year-old daughter were found dead in the house at Thalakarai near Negamam on Monday, said the police. The deceased were identified as K. Thamaraiselvi and her daughter Yasavi. Police suspect that the mother killed the child and then took her own life. They said that the woman called her mother on Monday evening and asked her to take care of the child. Her brother rushed to the house and found the front door locked from inside. He entered the house by removing the roof tiles and found his sister and daughter dead. The Negamam police have registered a case based on a complaint lodged by the man. Helpline Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling Sneha 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-citizen-bludgeoned-to-death-with-cricket-bat/article32500730.ece
02 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SFI stages protest against NEET||Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) staged a protest here on Tuesday against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). SFI members, who assembled in front of the Coimbatore Collectorate, held copies of a petition addressed to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, stating that she was against NEET. SFI Coimbatore district secretary Dinesh Raja said that the present Chief Minister and other Ministers reiterate that this is Amma’s government. However, the government is not taking a stern stand against NEET. Hence, we submit the petition before the portrait of Jayalalithaa, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-stages-protest-against-neet/article32500752.ece
02 September 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek relief from Centre||Tamil Maanila Vivasaya Thozhilalar Sangam staged a protest demonstration here pressing a charter of demands on Tuesday. The farmer’s organisation demanded that the government recall the amendments to the Electricity Act. The farmers association also demanded that the government reverse various ordinances that were allegedly “anti-people”. The protesters called for relief from the Centre in the form of compensatory income for livelihoods lost in view of COVID-19. The association demanded that the government provide a monthly relief of Rs. 7,500 per household for a period of six months; provide 200 wage days under MNREGS with a daily wage of Rs. 600 for beneficiaries and provide the same wage and work days for persons with disabilities; the government implement M.S. Swaminathan Commission’s recommendations of 50% of the cost of production as the minimum support price; pass a legislation to provide a minimum pension of Rs. 3,000 for farmers among others. The farmers also demanded that the district administration take up desilting works by way of Kudimaramathu in all water bodies including local ponds and lakes and hand over them to the farmers; implement an irrigation scheme to tap run off water from Cauvery and Thenpennai rivers and fill up lakes and other water bodies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-relief-from-centre/article32500740.ece
02 September 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Woman found hanging||A month after a 23-year old-man was murdered in a case of an ‘honour’ killing, his wife was found hanging in her maternal home on Monday. The victim Rajeshwari (21) had married Vijay in a temple, after the couple eloped from home here in Oddarthinnai village in Palacodde six months ago. The couple, both belonging to the same community, had faced opposition from the girl’s family. Rajeshwari’s father had given an undertaking before the Pennagaram All Women’s Police Station that he would marry them off formally after the girl completed her education. This August, Vijay was asked for a meeting by Rajeshwari’s father Muniraj, who then along with his nephew and few other relatives murdered Vijay. Muniraj along with five others were arrested. Rajeshwari, who was living in her parents home on Monday was found hanging. According to Mahendramangalam police, Rajeshwari, according to her mother’s accounts to the police was depressed. Police have registered a case of suicide under Section174 of IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-hanging/article32500742.ece
02 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Crowds throng reopened temples||Over 2,000 people visited the Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple here on Tuesday. Devotees were made to stand in lines marked at a distance of six metres from one another to follow social distancing norms, said Joint Commissioner of Meenakshi Temple K. Chellathurai. Temperature checks were done at the entrance and devotees, who did not wear masks, were disallowed from entering the temple. “People left their footwear in stands and took it by themselves to avoid any sort of direct contact between them and the temple staff,” said a source. The Joint Commissioner said that people themselves were aware of not having to sit down inside the temple premises. “They merely came and offered prayers. It was a large but manageable crowd and four pujas were conducted during the day,” he said. Flowers bought by devotees were seized by police personnel who were keeping a check. “Cell phones were not permitted inside the premises. A few people who brought them were made to keep them in our mobile phone locker areas,” a source said. R. Mohanakrishnan, a 62-year-old devotee from Sellur who has been going to the temple for 22 years, said that crowds similar to that of the annual celestial wedding arrived at the temple. “We were allowed in groups of 10s and only after sanitising our hands. Since we went as early as 6 a.m., we got to see deities by about 7.20 a.m. It was great to finally see Goddess Meenakshi after five months. The arrangements were good,” he said. Palani Devotees thronged the Subramania Swamy Temple here on Tuesday. However, rope car and winch were not operated. Devotees climbed the stairs through the hillock. HR & CE officials made elaborate arrangements for devotees visiting the shrine. Prasadams were kept in separate enclosures. The staff guided devotees to move inside the temple with adequate distance. Online issue of tickets for the next one week has been booked within a few hours, an official said and added that they issued 50 tickets. It would be enhanced depending on further instructions from the government. Officials restricted senior citizens (above 65 years) and children below 10 years from entering the temple. People without masks were also denied entry. Theni Devotees thronged Veerapandi Gowmariamman Temple, Saneeswara Bhagwan Temple at Kuchanoor and other shrines when they were opened for darshan. The police ensured that devotees moved inside the temple with social distancing. Virudhunagar Andal Temple in the district was kept open for people to offer prayers on Tuesday. People wearing masks were allowed to enter the temple. Devotees were asked to wait in designated areas on the temple premises. However, not much crowd was seen at temples. Over 400 devotees came to Thaniparai to trek up the Sathuragiri hill to offer prayers at Sundaramahalingam Temple atop the hill in connection with Pournami festival. With overnight rain, forest and police officials were keeping a watch on the hill which is prone to flash floods. People would be allowed till 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crowds-throng-reopened-temples/article32500984.ece
02 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SFI protest against NEET||Members of the Student Federation of India said the State government was acting against students by agreeing to conduct the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) here despite the rising COVID-19 cases. At a protest on Tuesday outside the Collectorate, Madurai district (urban) secretary of SFI S. Veldeva said that instead of issuing corrective measures following the death of 17-year-old scheduled caste medical aspirant S. Anitha, who committed suicide after she filed a case against the conduct of NEET exam, the government was making it difficult for students from rural areas to even attempt to write the exam. On Anitha's third death anniversary, everyone in the State government seems to have forgotten that the Chief Minister Jayalalithaa opposed NEET, he said. He added that the ruling AIADMK government, which in its manifesto opposed the conduct of NEET, was betraying the students by collaborating with the Central government. “Students who appear for NEET in large halls for a long time could be exposed and new COVID-19 clusters could form,” he said, demanding that NEET be scrapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-protest-against-neet/article32500978.ece
02 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court takes serious note of COVID-19 situation in Tiruchi||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday put forth a series of queries to the Collector and the Corporation Commissioner in order to ascertain the COVID-19 situation in Tiruchi city and district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam took cognisance of the State’s submission that there were eight testing facilities, including two private labs in the district. The court opined that the number of facilities was inadequate. After the court was informed that the samples were also sent to Coimbatore district for analysis, the judges wanted to know what procedure was involved in the exercise as it required keeping the samples at sub-zero temperature. Discharge into canal Further, the court wanted to know if biomedical waste from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital was being discharged into Uyyakondan canal, whether the water was treated before being let into the canal and whether there were incinerators in place. The judges told the Tiruchi Collector and the Corporation Commissioner who were present before the court through video-conferencing that there was a need to collect more samples for testing and to see to it that the results were announced within 48 hours.  ‘Ensure compliance’ With the relaxation of lockdown, the judges said, the district administration and the police had to ensure that the public followed physical distancing norms and sanitation measures, and wore masks. They had to educate the public and initiate penal action if the norms were not being followed, the court said. It also impleaded the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board as a respondent in the case to cause inspection of Uyyakondan canal. It demanded a comprehensive status report on discharge into the canal and growth of weed. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate R. Rajagobal who sought a direction to the State to ensure proper monitoring of the COVID-19 situation in Tiruchi district. The case was adjourned till September 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-takes-serious-note-of-covid-19-situation-in-tiruchi/article32500986.ece
02 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Parks open with safety measures||The parks maintained by Madurai Corporation across the city were spruced up on Tuesday, as they were permitted to reopen, following the relaxation of lockdown norms. According to the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government the children’s play area will remain closed in the parks. It also said that persons above 65 years, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years were advised not to use the parks. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the Eco Park at Tallakulam was opened for public use on Tuesday with all safety precautions, including thermal scanning and spraying of hand sanitisers for all those who entered the parks. A Corporation official said that only a limited number of people came to the park on Tuesday. But, the Rajaji Children’s Park will remain closed, said the City Engineer. “There are around 35 smaller Corporation parks across the city and all officials have been instructed to reopen the park with necessary safety precautions stipulated in the government guidelines,” he added. M.C. Sri Raju, a resident of Shenbaga Thottam Colony in Anna Nagar, said that reopening of parks will help residents have a peaceful walk amidst the pandemic. A.A.G. Rajkumar, president of Walker's Club, which runs the Vandiyur park at K.K.Nagar, said that the park will be reopened only after necessary safety precautions are adopted. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that the civic body will intensify the door-to-door surveillance, following the relaxation of lockdown norms. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that they will continue to test around 2,500 people every day. “We will give additional focus on densely populated areas, as the public movement will increase following the relaxation of lockdown norms,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parks-open-with-safety-measures/article32500989.ece
02 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside detention order under Goondas Act||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday set aside the detention order of Russ Foundation Director M. Berlin Jose and his employee John Prabhakar under the Goondas Act, after taking into account the fact that the authorities concerned had not considered their representations. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli set aside the order. Both Berlin Jose and John Prabhakar had challenged their detention. They were arrested and remanded in judicial custody on the charges of sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl, an inmate of the home run by the foundation. Following the incident, the private home at Thondaimanpatti in Madurai district has been sealed. In his petition, Berlin Jose said that the detention order was passed against him in a casual manner. Without any material or evidence on the allegation of sexual harassment, the detaining authority assumed that he was a threat to society, he said. Earlier, the bail petition filed by Berlin Jose before the High Court Bench was dismissed after the court was informed that the provisions of Goondas Act had been invoked against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-sets-aside-detention-order-under-goondas-act/article32500976.ece
02 September 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam fishermen look for timely execution of harbour projects||The fishing community in Nagapattinam district is understood to have conveyed its expectation to the government authorities for timely completion of the four new fishing harbour projects at Tranquebar, Arcottuthurai, Vellapallam and Nambiyar Nagar, to safeguard the boats from cyclones, alongside improving their standard of living. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami gave an assurance to the fishing community during his recent visit to Nagapattinam that the harbour projects would be completed soon. The projects would pave way for deep sea fishing, post-harvesting, cage culture and export promotion, were the need of the hour was to improve the standard of living of the fishers, according to representatives of the fishing community. The fishing harbours, officials said, will have facilities like processing unit, auction hall, net mending centres, and cold storage. Referring to the massive destruction caused by Cyclone Gaja, Regional Joint Director of Fisheries Deparment Amal Raj Xavier said that several hundreds of fishermen of Kameswaram, Vilunthamavadi, Vanavanmahadevi, Vellapallam, Naluvedhapathi and Pushpavanam villages, who will benefit from the Vellapallam Project, could not enter the sea for four to five months after the calamity as most of their boats had been destroyed.  The new fishing harbours, Mr. Amal Raj Xavier said, have been planned as protected fishing harbour basins in order to facilitate fishing operation during all weather conditions. The Tranquebar project entails an expenditure of Rs. 170 crore, Arcottuthurai project Rs. 150 crore, Vellapallam project Rs. 100 crore and the Nambiyar Nagar Mini Fish Landing Centre project Rs. 34 crore, Mr. Amal Raj said. The fishing harbour at Tranquebar will fulfil the long-term aspirations of the people of Tharangambadi and its coastal villages like Chinnamedu, Chinnangudi, Thazhampettai, Pudupettai, Perumalpettai, Vellakoil, Kuttiyandiyur, Chandrapadi, and Chinnoorpettai.  The tender process for construction of a fishing harbour at Arcottuthurai was initiated earlier this year. During April, the Department of Fisheries invited bids for construction of a fishing harbour at Arcottuthurai. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 148.4 crore with completion period of 24 months. The project for construction of the mini harbour in Nambiyar Nagar was initiated last November under Self-Sufficiency Scheme of the State Government, to ease congestion at the Nagapattinam Fishing Harbour. The residents of the coastal village have contributed Rs. 11.43 crore as their one-third share for the over Rs. 34 crore project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagapattinam-fishermen-look-for-timely-execution-of-harbour-projects/article32501006.ece
02 September 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||O. S. Manian isolates self after kin tests positive||Textiles Minister O.S. Manian went into isolation on Tuesday after a relative who visited him recently reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. The relative was among mourners who called on Mr. Manian to condole the death of his wife last week. “I have isolated myself for a week at my Oradiampulam residence. Please don’t visit me to express condolences,” Mr. Manian, also the Nagapattinam district unit secretary of AIADMK, said in a message. He requested that all who had been in close contact with him undergo COVID-19 testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/o-s-manian-isolates-self-after-kin-tests-positive/article32500683.ece
02 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Meeting on monsoon preparedness held||A consultative meeting on the preparatory measures for the Northeast monsoon was held at the Collectorate on Monday. Collector K. Megraj said that officials were advised to desilt water bodies to prevent water logging and flooding. Anti-dengue measures were also discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-on-monsoon-preparedness-held/article32500732.ece
02 September 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 serosurvey to be launched in Puducherry||The Health Department is preparing to launch a serosurvey across the Union Territory to gain a more accurate and illustrative picture of the prevalence of COVID-19 in the community. The survey will lift samples from adults (18 years and above) spanning areas and age groups, gender, occupations by risk exposure and economic class in Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam. “We have designed the survey to provide a representative as well as statistically significant sampling of the whole population of the Union Territory. Once the sero positivity in the sample size is established and we get a fair idea of where we stand in COVID prevalence, it will guide our testing and prevention strategy,” said J. Ramesh, Nodal Officer (COVID-19/Infectious Diseases), who is coordinating the survey. The serosurvey, which will cover an estimated 3,000 people, is expected to be rolled out later this week. Preventive and Social Medicine specialists helped define the parameters for the survey. The government has procured about 5,000 rapid anti-body test kits to carry out Elisa assays on the blood samples that would reveal if anyone had a past infection that went undetected, said S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health. While Puducherry and Karaikal have facilities to carry out the tests for immunoglobulin IgM/IgG antibodies, the samples drawn from Mahe and Yanam will be tested in Puducherry. Some cities in India have already concluded at least one round of serosurvey to figure out population-level presence of IgG antibodies that usually surface beyond 14 days into the infection. According to doctors, once the baseline samples are collated, the results could be produced in a few hours. “We should be ready with the data hopefully as early as next week,” Dr. Ramesh said. The serosurveys provide administrators a bird’s eye view of the magnitude of the problem they are dealing with and helps them in understanding patterns of spread and immunity trends. The data could also show how the testing results are aligned to infection rates in the community. Jipmer has also launched a serosurvey targeting a smaller population size of about 900 participants. The results are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-serosurvey-to-be-launched-in-puducherry/article32500718.ece
02 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Mobile camps revived in U.T. to conduct rapid tests||The Health Department has revived mobile health camps to conduct rapid tests for COVID-19 in Puducherry. District Collector T. Arun on Tuesday inaugurated the camp at the Primary Health Centre, Mettupalayam. Tests were conducted at PHCs in Reddiyarpalayam, Lawspet and Kosapalayam. Director of Health and Family Welfare S. Mohan Kumar told The Hindu that antigen-based tests would be conducted in all PHCs. In view of the lockdown relaxation, the ceiling of 50% and 30% of attendance of Group ‘B’ and Group ‘C’ staff respectively in all government offices has been dispensed with, Under Secretary to Government V. Jaisankar said in an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-camps-revived-in-ut-to-conduct-rapid-tests/article32500715.ece
02 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 363 new cases||Puducherry’s COVID-19 toll went up to 240 with 12 more deaths on Tuesday while the Union Territory saw 363 new cases. A total of 341 patients recovered and got discharged in the past 24 hours. Puducherry recorded 10 deaths and Yanam two. The patients, including two women, were in the 36 to 84 age spectrum. The case fatality rate has gone up to 1.63%. The deaths in Puducherry alone have crossed the 200-mark to aggregate 203, followed by Yanam (23) and Karaikal (14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-363-new-cases/article32500716.ece
02 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women electrocuted||A 61-year-old woman and her daughter-in-law were electrocuted at their house at Alapiranthan village near Aranthangi in the district on Tuesday. Police identified the victims as S. Rajakokilam and her daughter-in-law, M. Radhika, 37. Police sources said Radhika went to fetch water from a sump in front of her house when she accidentally touched the fence of her relative staying next door and suffered an electric shock. There was apparently an electricity leak from a temporary service connection taken by the woman’s relative for construction of a house. The power line apparently got snapped during overnight rains and had come into contact with the fence leading to the tragedy, police said. On hearing the cries of Radhika, Rajakokilam rushed to the rescue her daughter-in-law and also suffered a shock and died. Aranthangi Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-electrocuted/article32501003.ece
02 September 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek assistance||The All India Kisan Sabha and Bharatiya Khet Mazdoor Union on Tuesday staged a protest seeking assistance of Rs. 12,500 and free distribution of 10 kg of rice every month to those who have lost their jobs due to COVID-19 pandemic. Participating in a demonstration at Seithur, the district secretary of the Communist Party of India P. Lingam said that the Centre and the State were taking various anti-farmers measures. Stating that lakhs of people have lost their jobs due to the pandemic, he said only a government assistance of Rs. 12,500 and free rice can help poor families. They wanted the Centre to give up Draft Electricity (Amendment) Act, 2020 as it was against farming, farmers and farm hands. The government should increase the number of mandatory working days under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to 200 days. Besides, the scheme should be extended to jobless people living in urban areas like town panchayats and municipalities. The wages should be increased to Rs. 600 a day, he said. The workers sought a Deepavali bonus of Rs. 5,000 to each family. They wanted the district administration to increase the number of direct procurement centres. AIKS district secretary, Varadarajan, union secretary, Veerachamy took part in the protests that were held at various places across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-assistance/article32500966.ece
02 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Youth killed, four held||An armed gang stabbed Arun prakash, 22, of Vasantha Nagar in Ramanathapuram, to death by on Monday night. The police have arrested four persons and are on the look out for two prime accused. Yogeswaran, a friend of the victim, who received stab injuries, was admitted to the government hospital. Family members staged a demonstration in front of the GH here on Tuesday demanding arrest of the accused. Police pacified them and said arrests were being made. Superintendent of Police V Varun Kumar said  three special teams have been formed to nab the accused. The motive was yet to be established, he said. The Kenikarai police have registered a case under IPC Sections including 147,148, 294 (b), 323, 324, 302 and 307. Mohamed Riyaz, Kamatchi, Suresh and Shahul Hameed were detained while Sheik Abdul Rahman and Saravanan were wanted in the case. The police ruled out any communal angle to the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-killed-four-held/article32500967.ece
02 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Registration for organic certification||The district administration has invited farmers to take up organic farming and register for organic certification. According to a release, Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department would charge Rs. 2,700 for small and marginal farmers, Rs. 7,200 for group registration and Rs. 9,400 for firms. Interested farmers can contact district level registration authorities at Collectorate for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-for-organic-certification/article32500745.ece
02 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to 10 years imprisonment||The Salem POCSO Court on Tuesday sentenced a 40-year-old man to 10 years of imprisonment for raping his own nine-year-old daughter. The Court also imposed a fine of Rs. 75,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-sentenced-to-10-years-imprisonment/article32500746.ece
02 September 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Drive against illegal sand mining||The district police have released the number of cases registered in the last eight months thereby sending a strong message that illegal sand mining activities would not be permitted. In a press release, Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi said that 162 cases were booked between January and August. As many as 180 people were arrested and sent to judicial custody. The police seized 66 tractors, nine lorries and dipper trucks, four JCBs, 76 bullock carts, 22 two-wheelers and nine three-wheelers allegedly used in sand mining activities. The SP said a review of cases indicated that three persons had been habitual offenders. So, the police recommended detention of the three persons under Goondas’ Act. The public can inform the police about illegal sand mining activities. Strict surveillance at all check posts, assisted by CCTV cameras, would ensure that the natural resources were preserved. He warned of severe action against those who committed the crime repeatedly. Welcoming the steps taken by the police, social activists and environment protection groups said the police can examine the possibilities of posting youth from respective police station limits to share information about illegal sand mining activities. Periodic counselling on legal consequences would act as a deterrent to the accused, who on many occasions, claimed to be carriers and were unaware of laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-illegal-sand-mining/article32500968.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Places of worship reopen to devotees||Barring a few, all major places of worship reopened to the public in central districts on Tuesday. With the standard operating procedure prescribed by the State government in place, temples, churches and mosques/dargahs opened after a gap of over five months. The move gladdened devotees of different religious faiths who began to trickle in to the shrines to offer prayers by adhering to safety norms. Elaborate arrangements were put in place ahead of the reopening of temples, churches and mosques to ensure that personal distancing was maintained. In some major temples, barricades were placed to regulate movement of devotees. Only those wearing masks were allowed inside and devotees were asked to clean their hands with sanitisers. At Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam, devotees were allowed to enter and exit only through the south gopuram . The temple witnessed a steady stream of devotees on day one. Authorities issued tokens to devotees who were allowed to enter the temple in batches. A senior official of the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments said about 250-300 tokens were issued every hour to ensure that there was sufficient physical distancing inside the shrine. Most devotees expressed happiness over the opening of the temples. Lakshmi Suvarna, a native of Ahobilam in Andhra Pradesh, was one of them. She said she felt immensely satisfied and extremely happy to see the Lord after a long gap. “Usually, there is a huge crowd and devotees are asked to move quickly. But this time, there was no such hassle and we could worship the deity peacefully,” said Lakshmi Suvarna, who obtained an e-pass to reach the temple town. Priests, temple staff and security personnel wore masks and face shields. Devotees were also subjected to thermal scanning at Arulmigu Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram prior to being allowed inside in batches. Noarchanawas done at Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple in Tiruchi. Devotees were also not given vibuthi . The turnout of devotees at the temple was meagre on Tuesday. The same was the case at Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple at Tiruvanaikoil. Devotees were allowed to enter and exit only through the main entrance. The rest of the entrances remained closed. All mosques and dargahs in Tiruchi and other districts in the region also reopened to devotees to offer their prayers. “In Tiruchi district alone, 4,830 mosques were reopened to devotees to offer prayer,” said K. Jaleel Sulthan, Tiruchi district Government Khazi. “All 72 churches belonging to the Tiruchi Roman Catholic Diocese were opened to devotees for holy mass in the morning and another in the evening,” said T. Eugene, Vicar General, Tiruchi Roman Catholic Diocese. Major temples in Thanjavur district, including the Big Temple in Thanjavur Town, opened for public worship. Devotees were not permitted to take rest or have food inside the temple premises. Temples in and around Kumbakonam Town including Adhi Kumbeswarar shrine, Oppilliappan Temple and Subramanyaswamy Temple at Swamimalai were all opened for public worship. However, in Nagapattinam district, Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health and the Nagore Dargah did not open on Tuesday, even as people began to arrive in vehicles after the lifting of e-pass system. Groups of pilgrims who came to both places had to return disappointed. Those visiting Nagore were told by Dargah authorities that they had to comply with the directive of the district administration, preventing congregation of people.  Deity data  Steady flow of devotees to shrines in central region Worshippers not allowed to linger inside premises  4,830 mosques in Tiruchi district and other places allow worship  Holy mass held at 72 churches of Tiruchi Roman Catholic Diocese  Two major shrines in Nagapattinam district remain closed  Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health, Nagore Dargah comply with directive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/places-of-worship-reopen-to-devotees/article32501013.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||JEE Main exam gets under way||The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for admission to NITs, IIITs and other institutions participating through Central Seat Allocation Board took place at three centres in Tiruchi on Tuesday. The examination in Computer Based Test (CBT) mode was conducted in adherence to physical distancing norms in two shifts: 9 a.m. to noon and from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. at Shivani College of Engineering and MAM College of Engineering and Technology and Kongunadu College of Engineering and Technology near Thottiyam. The attendance of the students was in the range of 50 %, NTA Coordinator for Tiruchi Chacko said. Out of 486 students assigned for the two shifts in MAM College of Engineering and Technology, only 225 students appeared for the exam. Likewise, at Shivani College of Engineering, 215 students turned up, sources said. The National Testing Agency increased the number of exam centres from 570 to 660 this year, and the number of shifts from the earlier eight to 12, for compliance with social distancing protocol. Entry and exit of candidates was regulated in a staggered manner at the centres. A gap between two seats was maintained as per government guidelines and hand sanitiser was made available at entry and inside the exam venue for use by the candidates and the centre staff. The candidates were asked to maintain a space of six feet from each other. “Students were happy with the arrangements, though there were indications that some of them found the exam tough,” R.V.S. Muralidhar, Seekers Education Services, Tiruchi, said, citing loss of touch with the subjects due to the long gap as the reason. The (B. E. /B. Tech.) of JEE (Main) will also be an eligibility test for JEE (Advanced), which the candidate has to take if he/she is aspiring for admission to undergraduate programmes offered by Indian Institute of Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jee-main-exam-gets-under-way/article32501009.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC buses back on intra-district routes||Intra-district bus services of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, which were suspended in view of COVID-19 pandemic, resumed in Tiruchi and other parts of the central region on Tuesday. However, private buses were still off the road as operators felt that restricted operations within districts would be economically unviable. The Central Bus Stand in the city buzzed with activity as buses began plying to various destinations. But it was only half of the TNSTC fleet in Tiruchi due to poor patronage on the first day of resumption of services. Official sources said that out of 930 buses in Tiruchi region, which included depots in Ariyalur, Jayankondam and Perambalur, only 400 were operated. A majority of them were town or city buses that plied up to a short distance. Crew members, who reported for duty early in the day, were sensitised to social distancing norms while taking passengers aboard and issuing tickets. They were given hand sanitisers for application on the hands of passengers. They then drove their buses, which were disinfected at depots overnight, to the bus stands. “We have been asked to limit passengers to 30 at any given time. But the patronage was not as expected on the first day. However, we ensured compliance of social distancing norms,” said I. Radhakrishan, TNSTC conductor in a Tiruchi-Dindigul bus. During peak hours, some buses could still be seen with passengers occupying all seats. Most of the passengers, who came to Central Bus Stand, were headed to Coimbatore, Karur, Dindigul, Thanjavur, Tiruppur and other places. But they were asked to alight at the district border. On Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway, the buses were operated up to Ponnambalapatti near Vaiyampatti. On Tiruchi-Karur and Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highways, they were operated up to Pettavaithalai and Pudukudi. Many passengers complained of hardship on being forced to alight at the district border and then trek some distance to catch another bus on the other side. A group of four travellers, who began their journey from Thiruchitrambalam in Thanjavur district to Tiruppur, had to change three buses to reach Tiruchi enroute to Tiruppur. “From our village in Thanjavur district, we travelled for 5 km to reach a place in Pudukottai district, took a second bus up to Mathur and finally boarded a third one to Tiruchi. Now, we have boarded a bus to travel up to Pettavaithalai on Tiruchi-Karur border. We do not know how many buses we need to change before reaching Tiruppur,” said S. Perumal of Thiruchitrambalam. K. Hari, another passenger, said many Tiruchi residents had to change buses to reach Karur and then catch town buses to reach their workplaces. Hence, the State government should ease the curbs on inter-district bus transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-buses-back-on-intra-district-routes/article32501011.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHELSIA counts on State government for survival of fabrication units||The BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) is looking for support from the State government to prevent struggling fabrication units in Tiruchi from turning into non-performing assets. “The State government has a major role to play in securing the concessions the Central government had announced for the MSME sector to tide over the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown,” Rajappa Rajkumar, association president, said. “ BHELSIA has been seeking an appointment with the Chief Minister ever since the COVID lockdown began to drive home the gravity of the dismal situation the fabrication industries are in,” he added. The lack of response on the part of the State government so far has caused frustration among small and medium units. Safeguarding of the MSME sector will be in the best interests of the State government as it would stand to get GST revenue, Mr. Rajkumar said. “We would like to emphasise on inclusion of representatives of associations of small and medium industries in the committees formed for sustaining industrial activities,” Mr. Rajkumar said. In the current situation, the moratorium on repayment of loans have to be extended by six more months. Otherwise, a large number of the struggling industries will turn into non-performing assets, further precipitating the situation of joblessness, he observed. The BHELSIA, in recent months, has been making representations to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Union Finance Ministry for bailing out the stressed fabrication units in Tiruchi region. Despite the direction given by the Reserve Bank of India and the Central government to take steps to mitigate the crisis caused by COVID 19, banks were reluctant to sanction ad hoc limits and special limits. The State government’s intervention will be of immense help to the industries, Mr. Rajkumar said. The State government, Industry Department officials said, has responded to the plight of MSMEs through the COVID-19 Relief and Upliftment Scheme (CORUS), implemented through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation. Loans are provided to meet capital expenses and working capital needs, without emphasis on collateral or contribution by promoters, an official said. However, the promoters say the State government must also have a mechanism to ascertain that the desired impact is derived from such schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhelsia-counts-on-state-government-for-survival-of-fabrication-units/article32500999.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Second service to Hyderabad||IndiGo airline launched its second daily service on the Hyderabad-Tiruchi-Hyderabad sector on Tuesday. The second frequency would be operated during day-time. The ATR flight arrived here from Hyderabad with 78 passengers and left for Hyderabad with 73 passengers on board, said airline sources. The second service to Bengaluru that was to be resumed on Tuesday from here was cancelled due to runway closure in that city, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-service-to-hyderabad/article32501002.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Bus services within districts resume with 50% passengers||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) resumed bus services on Tuesday but buses were operated up to district borders from where there was no connecting service to ensure uninterrupted journey of passengers to reach their destinations. Its Tirunelveli division operated 301 buses – 147 in Tirunelveli, 67 in Tenkasi and 87 in Thoothukudi districts – in a phased manner. Since maintenance is going on in a big way in the Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand and reconstruction of Tirunelveli Junction Bus Stand is under way, buses were operated from Exhibition Grounds (for city buses) and omni bus-stand (for mofussil buses) on southern side of Palayamkottai Central Prison where a huge crowd could be seen from 6 a.m. onwards. While those going to their destinations within the district did not face any hardship, those who had to go to Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Sankarankovil, Kovilpatti, Tiruchendur and Nagercoil in nearby districts suffered a lot due to non-availability of connecting bus services from the district border. Those who had to go to Thoothukudi were dropped at Murappanaadu. Since there was no bus service from Murappanaadu to Thoothukudi, passengers suffered a lot. Similarly, those who had to go to Kovilpatti, could travel up to Gangaikondan and Sankarankovil passengers up to Thevarkulam and Tenkasi passengers up to Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, from where no connecting bus service was available. Those who had to go to Nagercoil could reach their destination with some difficulty. Passengers going to Nagercoil had to first board a bus to Valliyoor from where they had to board a second bus either to Viswanathapuram on the Kanniyakumari route or Aralvaimozhi to proceed to Nagercoil in the third bus. “The government should at least think of operating buses within these four districts,” said most of the passengers, who are all either government employees, bankers or service engineers. Though the government has instructed the TNSTC authorities to take only 24 passengers in a bus, the crew could not control the crowd that often picked up heated argument with the crew and other authorities deployed in the bus terminus when they tried to restrict the number of commuters to ensure physical distancing in buses. The crew could not even ask passengers to wear mask as commuters just ignored the appeal. As the omni bus-stand lacked toilet facilities, senior citizens and women suffered a lot. Similar situation prevailed in Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Nagercoil due to non-availability of connecting bus services from district borders.  Virudhunagar There was poor patronage for the limited number of buses operated in Virudhunagar district on Tuesday. “People from different towns in this district tend to go to nearby districts like Madurai, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi. With buses being operated within the district limits, the patronage is very less,” said an official. Dindigul TNSTC officials started operating buses with half of their capacity in this district from Tuesday. Its General Manager N Ganesan said that 89 buses were operated covering different routes within the town limits and on 38 mofusil points in the district. Commuters travelled to Kodaikanal and other parts such as Perumalmalai and Vilpatti in buses. Though the number of buses operated was 50 %, the number of commuters travelled on select routes was more than 50 %. While a majority of people wore face masks, some did not wear them, the crew said. Buses were disinfected at destination points. Crew offered sanitisers to commuters in some buses, officials said. In Theni district, buses started plying from 6 a.m. with 60 % of occupancy. About 60 buses including 30 in town bus routes were operated, officials said and added that the last service was operated at 9 p.m. Depending on feedback and requirement, the number of buses would be increased in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-within-districts-resume-with-50-passengers/article32500970.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam murder case: CBI collects blood sample||The CBI team probing the murder of Sattankulam trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks under judicial custody collected blood sample from J. Selvarani, the former's wife, here, on Tuesday. In the presence of the investigators, Tirunelveli Medical College doctor Prakash Bose collected the blood sample from Selvarani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-murder-case-cbi-collects-blood-sample/article32500754.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: blood sample taken||The CBI team probing the double murder of Sattankulam trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks under judicial custody collected blood sample from J. Selvarani, the former’s wife, on Tuesday night. The CBI team, led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Shukla, that arrived here in the evening, collected the blood sample from Mrs. Selvarani, who had come to Tirunelveli from Sattankulam. Doctor Prakash Bose of Tirunelveli Medical College collected her blood sample. The father-son duo died under mysterious circumstances in June after they were picked up from their shop by Sattankulam police. The CB-CID initially arrested the then station Inspector Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and other policemen, who had allegedly thrashed the two victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-cbi-collects-blood-sample-of-victims-wife/article32500979.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari reports 153 COVID-19 cases, Tirunelveli 152||Kanniyakumari reported 153 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, which took the district’s tally to 9,710, and 334 discharges. The district has 922 active cases. After two patients died, the district’s toll rose to 176. Tirunelveli, which recorded 152 new cases, has a total case count of 9,688 and 1,248 active cases. A total of 149 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district lost two lives, with which its toll went up to 175. Total number of infections in Thoothukudi went up to 11,475 with 884 active cases, after 65 fresh cases and 97 discharges were registered. With a fresh death, the district marked 113 fatalities. Tenkasi’s tally rose to 5,465 with 49 new cases. After 81 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 936 active cases. There was one death in the district. Meanwhile, Technical Advisor for Disaster Management and former Director of Public Health Kolandaiswamy held a discussion with City Health Officer (Thoothukudi) Arunkumar, Sanitary Officers and Sanitary Inspectors on anti-COVID-19 operations. He instructed them to follow the protocol in hospitals and public places. Madurai registered 128 new cases – all indigenous – which took its tally to 14,279, and 90 discharges. One person died, raising the toll to 358. The district has 900 active cases. With 67 new cases, Virudhunagar’s tally went up to 12,779. The district recorded 61 discharges, after which the number of active cases stands at 399. The toll in the district rose to 190 after the death of a 46-year-old man at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on Sunday. A total of 111 fresh cases were reported in Dindigul, which took up the tally to 6,669. The district registered 140 discharges. Theni recorded 55 new cases, with which the district’s tally moved up to 12,731. There were 145 discharges. Ramanathapuram added 40 more cases, with which its tally touched 4,758. The number of people discharged from hospitals was 40. Sivaganga reported 36 new cases to have a tally of 4,089. Forty-one people were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-reports-153-covid-19-cases-tirunelveli-152/article32500975.ece
02 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker murdered||A migrant worker allegedly murdered his colleague at a garment factory in K. Ayyampalayam village in Palladam on Monday night. The police said on Tuesday that Vijay Chand and his colleague Ram Kumar from Bihar in an inebriated condition were engaged in a physical altercation, leading to Kumar allegedly stabbing Chand with a broken liquor bottle. The accused absconded the spot and the deceased body was found at the factory on Tuesday, according to the police. Efforts are on to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-worker-murdered/article32500749.ece
02 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts continue to capture tiger that mauled woman in MTR||Forest department staff from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) continued their search for the tiger that killed a 50-year-old adivasi woman in the Singara Forest Range on Monday. Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone), L.C.S. Srikanth, said that around five sq.km. surrounding the site where the incident occurred was searched by a team of forest department staff on Tuesday. “Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were used to get a bird’s eye view of the surrounding area and to try and spot the tiger,” said Mr. Srikanth. However, forest department officials were unsuccessful in their efforts. Six camera traps were also set up in the area on Monday to capture an image of the animal. The camera traps were checked on Tuesday morning, but there were no images captured on the devices either, officials said. Mr. Srikanth said that efforts would continue to be taken to identify the tiger that had attacked the woman. “We are also comparing census data from previous years to ascertain which tiger or tigers use that particular range of habitat, so we can narrow down the candidates,” he added. Such an exercise would be useful in figuring out whether the tiger that attacked the woman was a female with cubs or an older male. They said that the age, physical condition and other factors of the tiger would be an important indicator on whether the attack on Monday was incidental. It would also dictate the next course of action that will be pursued by the forest department. Officials have also warned local residents to stay away from reserve forests and to not follow their livestock into the forests to graze. Interim compensation had also been handed over to the next of kin of the deceased on Monday, with officials promising that full compensation would be dispersed in a time-bound manner. Forest department staff will continue to patrol the area over the next few days to ensure that people are safe and that the animal does not venture close to human habitations. Officials said that they believe that the attack was a one-off, incidental event, and will use vehicles fitted with microphones to inform people to stay inside their homes especially after nightfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-continue-to-capture-tiger-that-mauled-woman-in-mtr/article32500744.ece
02 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris district remains closed to tourists: Collector||The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, reiterated on Tuesday that the district would remain closed for tourists. Ms. Divya told reporters here that though hotels and resorts will be allowed to function, those who choose to stay at these places can only travel to the Nilgiris for business purposes and for essential work. “All tourist spots will remain closed till further instructions from the Chief Minister,” said Ms. Divya and urged tourists to stay away from the Nilgiris till restrictions are fully lifted. People entering the Nilgiris would still require e-passes and those trying to visit for tourism-related activities will be sent back. Ms. Divya also appealed to local residents, who have symptoms of COVID-19, to visit the nearest government healthcare facility and get tested. “It is vitally important now that people take care of themselves, behave responsibly and get tested if they have any symptoms,” she said. “It will be difficult to continue to trace the contacts of every single case from here on in, and though we will continue our efforts, we appeal to the public to also come forward and get tested,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-district-remains-closed-to-tourists-collector/article32500756.ece
02 September 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Application invited for economic schemes||Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation has invited applications from eligible Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribes persons aged 18 years to 65 years for various economic development schemes. The annual family income should be Rs. 1 lakh. In a press release, Collector R. Kannan said interested people can apply for purchase or development of land, tatkal electricity connection scheme, entrepreneur development scheme to set up petrol bunks and gas pumps. They can apply under self-employment programme for youth to set up hospitals, pharmacy, optical, physiotherapy centres, clinical laboratories, subsidy under self-help group economic loan assistance and discretionary fund of Collector and Managing Director, assistance of Rs. 50,000 to prepare for UPSC and TNPSC Group I main examination and to set up offices by law graduates, chartered accountants and cost accountants. A maximum of Rs. 2.25 lakh at the rate of 30% of the project cost would be given as subsidy. Online applications should be uploaded throughhttp:// application.tahdco. com The applications should have full bio-data, photograph, proof of residence, community certificate with number, date of issue, and issuing authority and office. Other details like family annual income, family card, ration card, GST number and project report along with patta/chitta (for buying land and its development) should be provided. For uploading the applications at the office of District Manager (TAHDCO) a fee of Rs. 60 has to be paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/application-invited-for-economic-schemes/article32500964.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hotels, malls reopen to customers||With the State government permitting opening of hotels and malls from September 1, the hotels here threw open their doors to guests for stay and food. Though the restaurants saw hardly any visitors on Tuesday, the hotels are hopeful of seeing more guests walking in by the weekend. The hotels have taken several precautionary measures and some are even prepared for contact less serving. “The enquiries are good. Our guests who stay in the rooms have started coming down to the restaurant for food,” said the general manager of the one of the branded hotels here. “It is a matter of time before people start walking in for dinner or lunch. We are also waiting for details on serving liquor,” said the general manager of another hotel. At Prozone mall, the first day saw about 1,000 visitors. Nearly 50 % of the shops were open and the rest are expected to start operations by the end of this week. Visitors need to download an app or register at the entrance. The security personnel at the mall helped the visitors who were not aware of it. In the Nilgiris district, resorts and hotels opened for business. In Salem, hotel and tour operators are pinning hopes on business travellers. A.P. Manoharan, a taxi operator in Yercaud, said, “with the government giving permission for entry to Yercaud with e-pass, we are expecting significant increase in the footfall from next week. There are over 100 taxis and 80 autorickshaws operating in the hill station. Most of the drivers have been doing other odd jobs in the last five months.” Kalpanna Sivaraj, joint secretary, Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association, said they were expecting business travellers as it might take some time for tourists to visit the hill station. Hotels were following all safety procedures. The rooms were sanitised and physical distancing norms were followed at restaurants. Collector S.A. Raman said persons visiting Yercaud should have e-pass. Check posts had been put at three places - on Salem-Yercaud Road, one near Kuppanur and on Kadyampatti road. “Visitors will be screened at the check posts itself. People, who apply for e-pass, must give a local address proof in Yercaud,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-malls-reopen-to-customers/article32500727.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Temples witness low footfall||Following relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown, over 1,400 temples in Coimbatore district and 381 in Tiruppur district under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department were reopened to the public on Tuesday. Two of the most prominent temples in the district - Subramanyaswami Temple in Marudamalai and Patteeswarar Temple in Perur - were opened at 6 a.m, officials said. “We are expecting crowd on Sundays as Tuesday was a working day,” a senior official, who inspected the Marudamalai temple on Tuesday, said. Apart from the standard operating procedures issued for the temples by the State government, additional measures would be implemented depending on the situation, the official added. At Koniamman Temple, devotees were screened at the entrance using thermal scanners and were asked to wash their hands before entering the temple. None of the temples in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts reported overcrowding of devotees. In Erode district, all the religious establishments were reopened. At the Bannari Amman Temple in Sathyamangalam taluk, automatic hand sanitiser dispenser was installed. Also, thermal screening of devotees was done and only devotees wearing mask were allowed inside. They were not allowed to carry garlands or pooja materials. Likewise, administrations of Bhavani Sangameswarar Temple, Magudeswarar Temple at Kodumudi, Kottai Mariamman Temple and Kasturi Ranganatha Perumal temple in the city made safety arrangements for devotees. Shops outside the temples did little business as the flow of devotees was less. While prayers were offered at mosques and dargahs, church managements said that they were planning for Sunday mass. In Salem, over 200 major temples were opened. A. Natarajan, Joint Commissioner, HR & CE department, Salem Division, said temples had to be closed by 8 p.m. Officials said close to 450 major temples in Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts were opened. Prasadams were offered in packets and at temples where there was annadhanam, food packets were provided. S.R. Anwar, Mutawalli from Salem Jamia Masjid Trust Board, said all masjids in the district were opened and physical distancing norms were followed. The entire premises was sanitised and thermal scanners were used. Separate entry and exit points had been ensured, he said. In the Nilgiris, the district administration said temples, churches, mosques and other places of worship would be allowed to reopen with only 20 people remaining inside the premises at any particular time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-witness-low-footfall/article32500729.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lukewarm response to resumption of bus services in Western region||Following the COVID-19 lockdown relaxation, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) operated buses for the public on Tuesday. The TNSTC Coimbatore Division operated 800 buses in four districts - Coimbatore (401), Erode (153), Tiruppur (142) and the Nilgiris district (104). These, including town buses and intra-district mofussil buses, were only 30% of the total fleet. “It will be better for the commuters if the number of buses is increased,” said P. Radhakrishnan, a resident of R.S. Puram who took the 7C route bus to Gandhi Park on Tuesday. However, TNSTC officials said that the number of buses would be increased or decreased depending on the patronage. While most of the town buses in Coimbatore were sparsely occupied, with less than 10 passengers, a few TNSTC buses that plied on Trichy Road had full occupancy and did not adhere to the mandatory physical distancing norms. An official said that the occupancy should be only 60 % (around 30 passengers) in each bus and action would be taken to prevent overcrowding. President of the Coimbatore District Bus Owners’ Association (South) V. Duraikannan said that out of the 330 private buses only 12 were operated in the district on Tuesday. Prohibition on inter-district bus travel and 60% occupancy were not financially viable, he said. “Most of the private bus operators are afraid to resume services because they feel that they cannot restrict the number of passengers boarding the bus,” he claimed. The TNSTC Erode Division operated 130 town buses and 45 mofussil buses on Tuesday. The buses were disinfected and commuters were told to wear masks. Only a few passengers turned up at the Corporation’s Central Bus Stand in Erode. Since the buses were operated only after a minimum of 20 passengers boarded them, it affected the travel plans of many commuters. A number of commuters found it difficult to reach Pallipalayam in Namakkal district, which is four km from Erode, as town buses were operated only till Karungalpalayam. “We had to walk for two km and board an autorickshaw to reach our destination,” said a daily wage earner M. Alagesan. While most of the buses were sparsely occupied, a few town and mofussil buses saw over 70% occupancy. A few shops on the Erode bus stand premises were opened, but business was poor as commuter turnout was less. TNSTC officials said that patronage was good in the evening and expected more people to use the services in the coming days. No private buses were operated in the district. In the Nilgiris district, buses were operated with standard operating procedures in place. Passengers were told to ensure physical distancing and wear masks. The TNSTC Dharmapuri division operated less than 30% of its fleet strength on Tuesday in order to gauge the commuter traffic. At the Krishnagiri bus stand, buses bound for Hosur and Uthangarai had very little occupancy. Dharmapuri division that includes mofussil and town depots of Krishnagiri, Hosur and Dharmapuri had planned to operate 285 buses of the total fleet strength of 950. This had envisioned 30% of the buses from each depot. However, the number of buses was far less from the town depots as the passenger traffic was negligible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lukewarm-response-to-resumption-of-bus-services-in-western-region/article32500734.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees 577 new cases and two deaths||Coimbatore district reported more than 500 COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, with 577 persons testing positive for the disease. Health Department officials attributed the spike in the number of positive cases to the increase in the number of samples being collected for COVID-19 test. On Monday, 589 people tested positive. As per the media bulletin issued by the Department, the total number of cases reported so far in the district increased to 16,075 on Tuesday. Two persons aged 75 and 86 died and 392 persons were discharged from hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres on the day. Salem district reported 335 fresh cases and six deaths. The deceased were aged 65, 53, 65, 55, 53 and 69. Of the new cases, 324 were indigenous including 191 in Salem Corporation limits. Eleven patients had returned from Namakkal, Erode, Kalakuruchi, Krishnagiri, Cuddalore, Dindigul, Ariyalur, Dharmapuri and Coimbatore. Police personnel test positive  Two police personnel, two teachers, a government hospital worker and a conservancy worker were among the 74 new cases reported in in Namakkal district. Eight patients had returned from Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, and two patients had returned from Karnataka and Kerala. With 87 new cases, Tiruppur district’s overall tally rose to 2,812. A man aged 69 died, and 22 patients were discharged from various hospitals. As many as 50,143 persons were placed under home quarantine in Tiruppur district as of Tuesday. The 46 new cases in the Nilgiris, took the district’s tally to 1,653. The district administration stated that 1,310 people have recovered so far. Sixty-three persons in Krishnagiri and 10 persons in Dharmapuri tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-sees-577-new-cases-and-two-deaths/article32500735.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Diversion of heavy vehicles from Karur to Tiruchi||Heavy vehicle traffic between Kulithalai and Tiruchi will be diverted via Tiruchi-Musiri Road from September 4. Road widening work on Tiruchi-Karur Highway between the Kudamuritti river in the city and Thindukarai is stated to be the reason. Residents of suburbs along the highway had demanded diversion of heavy vehicles as work on widening of the narrow and accident-prone 11-km-long stretch was causing traffic congestion. All heavy vehicles headed to Tiruchi from Karur will be diverted at Kulithalai to proceed via Tiruchi-Musiri Road. However, vehicles bound for Karur from Tiruchi will be allowed to take the highway, Collector S. Sivarasu said on Tuesday. The road widening and strengthening work is being taken up in stretches and work is underway between the Kudamuritti and Kambarasampettai. Workers could be seen regulating traffic, holding aloft flags, to allow one-way traffic alternatively. But the heavy traffic is leading to much congestion and hold-ups, say residents. “Given the heavy volume of heavy vehicle traffic, especially tipper lorries carrying M-sand and other construction material, diversion of the vehicles is essential at least on one direction. With blue metal being spread out on the road, two-wheeler riders are facing much difficulty in negotiating the stretches. Heavy vehicles kick up dust and stones, posing a threat to other road users,” said P. Ayyarappan, a road safety activist of Allur. The highway stretch runs between the Cauvery and Tiruchi-Karur railway line and has several sharp and dangerous curves. The work was sanctioned last year at an estimate of Rs. 55 crore under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development Programme and work began in April. About 30% of the work has been completed so far, said a Highways Department official. Once the work is completed between the Kudamuritti and Kambarasampettai, the next stretch between Murungapettai and Allur will be taken up. On the Allur-Thiruchendurai stretch, trees have to be cut. The project is scheduled to be completed in 12 months, but the Highways Department is working towards completing it ahead of schedule, the department official indicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diversion-of-heavy-vehicles-from-karur-to-tiruchi/article32501005.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eight deaths, 646 fresh cases recorded in central region||As many as 646 fresh cases of COVID-19 and eight deaths were recorded in central districts on Tuesday. Thanjavur district topped the list with 132 new cases followed by Tiruvarur with 99 cases. Tiruchi reported 98 positive cases, Pudukottai 95 and Nagapattinam 85. Ariyalur had 71 new cases. Perambalur and Karur registered 33 cases each. As per the medical bulletin of the State Health Department, Pudukottai district reported four casualties and Tiruvarur two. Karur and Thanjavur recorded one death each. Fatalities A 27-year-old youth was among those who died of COVID-19 in central districts on Tuesday. Belonging to Karur, he was admitted to the Karur Medical College Hospital on August 30 at 4.15 pm. He died the same day at 11.30 pm. Besides testing positive for COVID-19, he had chronic kidney disease, acute pulmonary edema, accelerated hypertension and end stage renal disease. A 50-year-old man from Pudukottai, who was admitted to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital with the complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty on August 25, died within a few hours of admission. His test result came out positive the next day. He died of acute respiratory failure, COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. He had no comorbid conditions. A 59-year-old man from Tiruvarur admitted to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on August 26, succumbed to the virus on August 30. He died of COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 77-year-old man admitted to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital died on August 30. He too was affected with COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Of the four deaths reported from Pudukottai district, two were above 70-years of age. While a 75-year-old male patient, who was admitted to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on August 28, died the same day, an 80-year-old man died two days after being admitted to the same hospital on August 28. Both of them suffered from diabetes mellitus and acute respiratory failure. Another person, aged 51, who died on August 25, was admitted to the hospital a day before. He had diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease and acute pulmonary edema. Pudukottai Among the eight districts in central region, Pudukottai continued to top the list of having the most active cases. It had 1,206 active cases, after an addition of 95 cases and discharge of 153 patients on Tuesday. Ariyalur The total number of patients under treatment after the addition of 71 new cases in Ariyalur district stood at 448 on Tuesday. The district saw the discharge of 108 patients. Karur In Karur district, the persons under treatment for COVID-19 including home treatment rose to 390 from 381. While 33 were admitted to the hospitals, 23 were discharged from various hospitals. Tiruchi The total number of active cases witnessed a marginal increase with an addition of 98 patients and discharge of 92 patients in Tiruchi district. The active cases rose up to 895 from 889 in the district. Most of the fresh cases were the primary contacts of those tested positive for the virus, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-deaths-646-fresh-cases-recorded-in-central-region/article32501001.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rehearsing a rescue act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rehearsing-a-rescue-act/article32500972.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Perilous perch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perilous-perch/article32501008.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Women Conductors For Buses||The scheme for the appointment of women conductors in buses was finalised today at a conference between Transport Department officials and a representative group of women social workers at the office of the Deputy Transport Commissioner in Royapettah. Mr. B. Gopala Reddy, Minister in charge of Transport attended the conference. Dr. U. Krishna Rao, the Mayor, was also present. To start with, ten women conductors would be posted for service in Express buses. The minimum educational qualification would be Form III and intending applicants should be between the ages of 25 and 40. The scales of pay, allowances and batta for women conductors would be the same as for men conductors. Persons selected for appointment would be given intensive training for a week after which they would be assigned to their jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-conductors-for-buses/article32500709.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inauguration of King Institute by Lord Ampthill||The King Institute in Guindy was inaugurated by Lord Ampthill in March 1905. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the science of medicine originated in India and was exported to Arabia and then to Europe. The Institute was set up to improve vaccination and public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inauguration-of-king-institute-by-lord-ampthill/article32500700.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The orgins of Arignar Anna Nagar project||It was in December 1967 that the West Madras Neighbourhood plan was inaugurated. Called Arignar Anna Nagar, the project extended across an area of 1,300 acres and included the villages of Aminjikarai and Naduvankarai. It lay between Poonamallee High Road and New Avadi Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-orgins-of-arignar-anna-nagar-project/article32500701.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||The young getting infected in greater numbers||Contrary to what was earlier projected by experts that the elderly, especially those with comorbidities, are most susceptible to COVID-19, those in the age group of 21-30 seem to be driving the pandemic in the State. According to the State COVID-19 war room data (updated till August 28) Karnataka reported 3,18,752 cases, of which 86,347 were active as on that day. The highest number of cases - 71,936 - were reported in the 21-30 age group. In the 31-40 age group, there were 69,835 cases, and another 55,032 cases in the 41-50 group. There were 40,040 cases who were aged above 60 years. Doctors said this is mainly because young people are more mobile and socially active. “They are the ones who go out to work and are likely to get more exposed to the virus. Also some of them tend to violate precautions. They use mobile phones, take off their masks and eat in common places and hence are more likely to interact with others,” said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force.   While this may seem to be a worrying trend, it is good in terms of getting herd immunity, said V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee. “The younger lot may be getting infected in high numbers but they are also recovering fast as they have less severe illness and more favourable outcomes. There is a positive side to this - if more people get infected and recover, herd immunity is not far away. What is important is that they should not pass the infection on to the elderly in their families or to those with comorbidities as the infection is usually severe in this category of the population. The key is to seek medical advice early and get started on treatment as soon as a person develops symptoms,” said Dr. Ravi. Recently, the World Health Organization (WHO) also stated that globally people in their 20s, 30s and 40s, most of them asymptomatic, are driving the COVID-19 pandemic. Mortality higher in elderly While the infection rate is higher in the younger lot, mortality is the highest among those aged above 60 years. Of the total 5,368 deaths reported till August 28, 2,692 were above 60 years. In contrast, 131 deaths in the 21-30 age group, 382 in the 31-40 age group and 776 in the 41-50 age group have been reported till then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-young-getting-infected-in-greater-numbers/article32500635.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka among five States contributing in big way to country’s high suicide rate||Karnataka was among the five States that together accounted for 49.5% of the total suicides reported in the country last year, while Bengaluru was among the four metropolitan cities that together reported almost 36.6% of the total suicides from 53 mega cities in India. This is according to the National Crime Record Bureau’s (NCRB) ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India-2019’ report, which was released on Tuesday. The report states that the five States that contributed in a big way to the high suicide rate in the country were Maharashtra (13.6%), Tamil Nadu (9.7%), West Bengal (9.1%), Madhya Pradesh (9%), and Karnataka (8.1%). Each of these States has continuously accounted for about 8% or more of the total suicides reported in the country from 2017 to 2019. However, Karnataka’s percentage share of suicides has seen a marginal decline since 2017. While the State’s share in 2017 was 9%, it came down to 8.6% in 2018, and dropped further to 8.1% in 2019. A total of 22,390 suicides were reported in the 53 mega cities in 2019. Chennai (2,461), Delhi (2,423), Bengaluru (2,081), and Mumbai (1,229) reported a high number of suicides, together accounting for almost 36.6%. Bengaluru showed a slight decline from 2018 to 2019. The overall male-female ratio of suicide victims was 70.2 to 29.8; it stood at 68.5 to 31.5 in 2018. The proportion of female victims was greater under ‘marriage-related issues’ (specifically in ‘dowry-related issues’) and ‘impotency/infertility’. ‘Family problems’ and ‘illness’ were the major causes of suicide, accounting for 32.4% and 17.1% of the total numbers, respectively, in 2019. Persons in the age groups of 18 to 30 and 30-45 were the most vulnerable groups, accounting for 35.1% and 31.8% of the suicides, respectively.  Analysing the data, G. Gururaj, Dean of Neurosciences and senior professor in the Department of Epidemiology at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), said the trend of suicides in the 18-45 year age group was worrisome. “This age group is most important and productive. We do not know the cause of suicide among the younger age groups and we still don’t have a national suicide prevention strategy in place,” he said. Moving forward Dr. Gururaj said that over the years, there has been a growing consensus among experts on the need for such a policy. “Without a strategy, we cannot go forward. We have been informed that the Centre is considering a draft document,” he said, adding that any strategy should be multi-disciplinary, data-driven, include different interventions, and be broad-based and outline the implementation strategies. He also noted that the number of deaths in the report had remained the same, by and large, over the past three years. He pointed out that the actual numbers may be much higher, given there is a lot of under-reporting and misclassification. He also said more importance should be given to suicide attempts and those who live with suicidal ideation. “Weneed to understand the causes for suicide and the risk factors. Unfortunately, this data is not available at the national level. We already know some risk factors, such as history of alcoholism, domestic violence, history of attempt to commit suicide. Precise data and understanding will help,” he said. Dr. Gururaj said suicide prevention helplines were a useful method of intervention as they offer timely help. “The helplines allow the person to ventilate to an anonymous person who can provide non-judgemental advice on what should be considered,” he said. He, however, added that there was no systematic evaluation of how these helplines would help in the long term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-among-five-states-contributing-in-big-way-to-countrys-high-suicide-rate/article32500643.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most number of speeding deaths reported in State||The highest number of deaths in road accidents due to speeding last year were reported in Karnataka, according to the ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India-2019’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). While speeding claimed 86,241 lives in the country, 9,314 died in Karnataka. Tamil Nadu followed with 8,832 deaths. The report states that speeding accounted for 59.6% of the total accidents in the country (2.6 lakh out of 4.37 lakh). The next major reason was dangerous and reckless driving, accounting for 1.12 lakh accidents. The report also states that 19% of the accidents happened between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. “A majority of road accidents [in those hours] were reported in Tamil Nadu (13,143 cases), Madhya Pradesh (9,767 cases), and Karnataka (8,197 cases),” the report said.  During 2019, as many as 4,37,396 cases of road accidents were reported in the country, resulting in 4,39,262 persons being injured and 1,54,732 dying. Karnataka stood in third position among the States with the highest number of road accidents, behind Tamil Nadu (57,228) cases and Madhya Pradesh (51,641). Piyush Tewari of Save Life Foundation said, “Karnataka is among the top States with the highest number of road accidents and fatalities. In Karnataka, highways are getting better and even at night, people drive with speed. There are habitations on either side of the roads, leading to a significant number of deaths on the road. Our recommendation to the State government is to adopt a safe system approach that basically takes into account human error and to redesign infrastructure keeping in mind the safety of pedestrians. Engineering and enforcement interventions are needed to bring down the [number of] road accidents and deaths.” In the State, 10,951 people were killed and 50,442 injured in road accidents. The report also states that in the country, 38% of victims of road accidents were riders of two-wheelers, followed by those who were in trucks (14.6%), cars (13.7%), and buses (5.9%). In addition to road accidents, 22 railway crossing accidents were reported in the State, resulting in 15 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-number-of-speeding-deaths-reported-in-state/article32500646.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP aiming to improve healthcare facilities in city||The COVID-19 outbreak has exposed chinks in the public healthcare system in the city. The civic body is now trying to improve healthcare facilities that it manages, starting with oxygenated beds and CPAP (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) machines being made available. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has 85 Urban Public Health Centres, 26 maternity hospitals and six referral hospitals. Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad even admitted that the civic body had ignored investing and improving public health infrastructure for many years. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep said it was planning to have at least one oxygenated bed and CPAP machine in each of the PHCs. This was especially important, given that during the pandemic, many patients with complaints of breathlessness are rushed to the PHCs and other healthcare facilities. “The objective is that our facilities become self-sufficient and are able to provide critical healthcare at the time of need, ensuring that citizens don’t have to depend on private hospitals or nursing homes,” he said. Mr. Randeep also said that following improvement, the PHCs may function round-the-clock. “We will depute a staff nurse, who is trained to operate the equipment, and a security personnel,” he added. While each PHC will have an oxygenated bed, the number of such beds in each of the referral and maternity hospitals will be decided based on the availability of space, he said and added that the civic body would be spending nearly Rs. 5 crore on this. Following the outbreak, the State government decided to handover 56 PHCs that were under the jurisdiction of Bengaluru Urban district to the BBMP. These 56 PHCs were technically within the BBMP limits, as they were located in the five outer zones. The government has also handed over an additional 40 PHCs that are located in the five taluks falling under Bengaluru Urban district. More PHCs The BBMP now wants to establish 57 more PHCs in the city to ensure that there is one PHC in each of the 198 wards in the city. “While 85 PHCs that were originally under BBMP were in the three core zones, 56 were in the five outer zones. There still are 57 wards without a PHC,” Mr. Randeep explained. He said that health officials in these wards had been directed to identify buildings where the PHC could be established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-aiming-to-improve-healthcare-facilities-in-city/article32500636.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Average turnout for JEE (Main)||Day one of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), a gateway to get into the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), concluded across the State on Tuesday amid a slew of precautionary measures. According to sources in the National Testing Agency (NTA), 60% to 65% of the candidates who had applied for the exam appeared for the two papers — B. Arch and B. Planning — held on Tuesday. “Generally, the attendance would be around 90% every year. However, this year the percentage of absentees is around 35%,” an NTA representative said. The representative also said that both the exams were “successfully and smoothly conducted without any untoward incident”. “Thermal checking of students and staff was conducted. The candidates were made to sit in alternate seats in order to ensure proper social distancing. Sanitisers were provided at regular intervals,” the representative said. Students at an exam centre said they were also provided with masks and thorough checking was done at every step and the centre was also sanitised.  Though the NTA ensured that more than 99% of the candidates were assigned the cities of their first choice for exam centres, candidates in cities such as Bengaluru had to travel long distances to reach their centres. Vishwas (name changed) had to travel all the way from Doddaballapur to K.R. Puram to write Tuesday’s papers. He said his exam centre for the next B. Tech paper was in Bommanahalli. “Travelling on normal days is not a problem but travelling during a pandemic is a problem. My father had to wait outside the exam hall the whole day,” Vishwas said, adding that changes in exam centre were also quite problematic. JEE (Main), a computer-based test (CBT), was conducted at 33 exam centres in 13 towns and cities, including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi, and Bidar. There were 11 centres in Bengaluru alone. Across the country, around 8.58 lakh students had registered for the exam, which was held in 660 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/average-turnout-for-jee-main/article32500640.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KIA completes 100 days of post-lockdown operations||The Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), Bengaluru, has completed 100 days of operations post COVID-19 lockdown, reconnecting with 49 of 58 domestic city pairs and achieving 84% of the pre-COVID-19 domestic network since the resumption of operations. The Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) permitted operations from May 25 after two months of lockdown. With the relaxation of State regulations and addition of capacity by airlines, KIA is expecting the numbers to increase in the coming days and months. According to Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL), KIA has welcomed 1.4 million domestic passengers with 15,658 Air Traffic Movements (ATMs). “As compared to July 2020, there was 39% growth in ATMs and over 47% growth in passenger traffic in August 2020, indicating a positive trend with successive measures to unlock India’s economy,” a BIAL spokesperson said. According to a BIAL release, out of the total number of passengers who travelled from Bengaluru, 13% were to Kolkata, while 11% travelled to Delhi, and 6% to Patna. “Passenger movement was highest towards the eastern/north-eastern regions of India at 33.7%, followed closely by South India at 30.9%,” the release said. According to a Voice of Pax survey conducted by BIAL to understand passenger perception towards air travel, more than 90% considered airports safer than any other location, and air travel safer than any other mode of transport. Based on the response of passengers, initiatives such as ‘Touch-free Virtual Information Desks’ have been introduced, the release said. “The technologically-enabled parking-to-boarding contactless journey that minimises all physical contact was developed and rolled out in just two weeks. Facial recognition for self-boarding, pioneered and rolled out earlier at KIA, as well as various sanitisation and hygiene measures ensured that passengers continued to have a seamless, touch-free airport experience,” the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kia-completes-100-days-of-post-lockdown-operations/article32500624.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7% decrease in maternal deaths||Asserting that maternity services have not been hit during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Health and Family Welfare Department has said that there was a 7% reduction in maternal deaths in the first quarter of 2020-21 (April to June). State Deputy Director (Maternal Health) N. Rajkumar told The Hindu that as many as 210 maternal deaths were recorded in the first quarter of 2019-20, and in the corresponding period this year, the number was 195. “This shows that maternity services are largely effective in the State,” he said. The health expenditure pertaining to the Maternal Health programme under the National Health Mission also increased to 78% from 45% over the same period last year. The major expenditure of the programme involves disbursing Janani Suraksha Yojana incentives to pregnant women soon after delivery and providing cashless delivery services in the form of free drugs and consumables, free blood, free referral transport, free diet, and diagnostics to pregnant women irrespective of their economic status, he said. Amid the pandemic, the department has ensured uninterrupted services of doctors, nurses and support staff for providing delivery services. “While hospitals have been designated for COVID-19-positive maternity services, we have also maintained an adequate stock of key drugs such as IFA, Calcium, folic acid, and iron sucrose injection and consumables such as suture material, gloves, and PPE,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7-decrease-in-maternal-deaths/article32500647.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB searches three SDPI offices||The Central Crime Branch police, on Tuesday, carried out search operations at three offices belonging to the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in its investigation into the D.J. halli violence. The CCB has alleged that SDPI had played a crucial role in the violence. It had approached the court seeking permission to carry out searches at the offices as part of the investigation. On Tuesday, three teams carried out search operations at the offices in KG halli, D.J. Halli, and Halasuru Gate to look for documentary evidence to ascertain their activities. ‘Politically motivated’ Meanwhile, SDPI State president Ilyas Thumbe alleged that the raids on SDPI offices were “politically motivated”. “The BJP government is playing games to suppress the SDPI,” he alleged.   Three teams search SDPI offices in KG halli, DJ Halli, and Halasuru Gate to look for documentary evidence to ascertain their activities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-searches-three-sdpi-offices/article32500620.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Classes for terminal semester of UG courses begin||Following the State government directive and UGC guidelines, physical classes for terminal semester undergraduate students began from Tuesday. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University, said all 700 colleges that come under the jurisdiction of Bangalore University were directed to resume classes from Tuesday to help students brush up their learning for the final exams, which are scheduled to begin on September 12. “Online classes for those who have been promoted to second year and third year have also started,” Mr. Venugopal said. He also said that postgraduate terminal semester students at the Jnana Bharathi campus were allowed to come to the hostels from Tuesday and COVID-19 RT-PCR tests were done.“Their exams will begin on September 23,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-for-terminal-semester-of-ug-courses-begin/article32500648.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Good response to school adoption programme||The school adoption programme has received a good response with 189 legislators coming forward to adopt over 600 government schools in their constituencies. According to release, M.R. Doreswamy, Adviser to the Government (Education Reforms), said the aim was to bring 35,000 government schools under the scheme within three years to enrich the primary education in the schools. Mr. Doreswamy suggested to the government to provide basic requirements in all government schools, including drinking water, separate toilet facilities for boys and girls, additional classrooms, compound wall to enhance security, providing minimum 10 computers to each school, and training for teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-school-adoption-programme/article32500653.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sunday Bazaar slum fire: Govt. to pay Rs. 14,100 to families as compensation||The State government on Tuesday told the Karnataka High Court that it has now decided to grant Rs. 14,100 as compensation to those who lived in the huts, situated on a government land in Sunday Bazaar slum in Kacharakanahalli, which were set on fire by miscreants in March. A statement has been made before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a PIL petition, suo motu initiated by the court based on a letter written by Vaishali Hegde, an advocate in June. The government enhanced the compensation as the court, during earlier hearing, described as low the compensation of Rs. 6,100 fixed for each of the affected families by the government. Already, the government had identified 170 families affected in the incident. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to submit status report on the investigation carried so far based on the First Information Report registered about the incident. It has been alleged in the report submitted by the police that two owners of a nearby choultry, who wanted to use this land for their business and parking, with the help of two others conspired to clear the huts when residents of many of the huts left to their native places in northern Karnataka just before imposition of lockdown. Three persons have been arrested after investigation, the police had told the court earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sunday-bazaar-slum-fire-govt-to-pay-rs-14100-to-families-as-compensation/article32500625.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPSC preliminary exam||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) will hold preliminary examination for 24 vacant posts of Assistant Conservator of Forests in the Department of Forest, Environment and Ecology on October 10. According to a release, Paper 1 (general knowledge) will be held from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and Paper 2 (aptitude test) will be held from 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. For details, visithttp://kpsc.kar.nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpsc-preliminary-exam/article32500652.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elderly patients in Kashmir get plasma from Bengaluru||For the first time during this pandemic, plasma from the State-supported HCG plasma bank in Bengaluru has been sent for use in two critical patients in Srinagar, Kashmir. Two units of convalescent ‘COVID-19 Plasma’ have been airlifted from Bengaluru to Kashmir for the critical patients under treatment in the ICUs of two different government hospitals in Srinagar. This was achieved with the help of BIAL and Indigo Airlines. While one patient is a 61-year-old female, the other is a 63-year-old male. The plasma bank was launched recently by COVID-19 India Campaign, under the aegis of ICATT Foundation in association with HCG Hospitals and the State government. The plasma bank has been set up under Mission COPE (COVID Plasma Endeavour) to promote plasma donation from recovered COVID-19 patients. U.S. Vishal Rao, associate dean, HCG Hospitals, and programme director of Mission COPE, who also heads the bank, told The Hindu that the patients’ families reached out to the hospital through a relative who is a doctor in Bengaluru and shared the emergency need for plasma for the patients. “The plasma reached Srinagar on Tuesday afternoon safely. We appreciate the sincere efforts of the airlines team and hope best for patients’ recovery,” Dr. Rao said. “The creation of a successful air corridor opens up new possibilities for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 with plasma from anywhere in the country,” he added. As many as 250 recovered COVID-19 patients have donated plasma so far in the State which has been used for over 340 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elderly-patients-in-kashmir-get-plasma-from-bengaluru/article32500630.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bio-purifier installed in Jayadeva ICU||To reduce viral load in closed spaces such as ICUs and wards and the resultant exposure risk of healthcare professionals to disease causing virus in hospitals, a state-of-the-art bio-purifier has been installed in the basement ICU of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences in Bengaluru. Designed and developed by a startup - Radarc Medical Innovations Pvt. Ltd. - the bio-purifier has six levels of air sanitisation - mechanical, chemical, ozone, ultra violet, plasma and Hepa filters. Institute director C.N. Manjunath said the bio-purifier has been installed for free at the hospital’s ICU. All biological impurities - viral, bacterial, fungal and ultra-fine particles - are fully captured and eliminated, recirculating pure breathable air into the room, he said. “This gives a lot of confidence to doctors working in ICUs and OTs,” Dr. Manjunath added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bio-purifier-installed-in-jayadeva-icu/article32500629.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special help desk for elders||The Elders Helpline, a joint project of Bengaluru City Police and Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), has established a special help desk for elders living alone, especially as many of them are living in fear due to the pandemic. Not only are they more susceptible to infection, extreme confinement is increasing their isolation, anxiety, fear, depression, emotional and safety concerns. Elders who are feeling lonely, isolated, emotionally disturbed and in need of help due to COVID-19 can contact the Elders Helpline on 1090 or 100 and ask for Elders Helpline or WhatApp the Helpline on 8095001090. Counsellors and social workers will advise, counsel and offer necessary support and guidance. All the services of Elders Helpline are free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-help-desk-for-elders/article32500619.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports over 9k cases for second time||Karnataka on Tuesday recorded 9,058 cases taking the total number of cases to 3,51,481. This is the second time that the State is reporting over 9,000 cases. On August 27 the State had reported 9,386 cases, the highest ever on a single day. The number of deaths too increased with 135 new deaths reported on Tuesday taking the toll to 5,837. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. For the first time, the number of tests in the State crossed 80,000 on Tuesday. As many as 83,670 tests including 51,987 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. So far, the State has conducted 29,79,477 tests and this includes 20,86,535 RT-PCR tests. The State saw 5,159 discharges taking the total number of recoveries to 2,54,626. Of the 90,999 active cases, 762 are being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,967 cases and 40 deaths. With this, the total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban has touched 1,32,092. The death toll in Bengaluru Urban is 2,005 now. Mysuru followed Bengaluru Urban with 737 new cases. Apart from this, Ballari, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Tumakuru recorded over 300 cases on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-over-9k-cases-for-second-time/article32500632.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Submit scheme to disburse Rs. 5 cr. for needy advocates’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the Karnataka State Bar Council to submit to the court the ‘COVID-19 Advocate Relief Fund’ scheme framed to disburse Rs. 5 crore released by the State government for financial assistance to needy advocates in view of pandemic. “The scheme has to be fair and transparent, considering the fact that the money transferred by the government is public money,” the HC made it clear to the KSBC. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions related to grant of financial assistance to advocates’ clerks. The KSBC told the Bench that the government had on August 26 issued an order asking various associations of advocates to approach the KSBC for financial help citing release of Rs. 5 crore grant. Also, the government had asked the KSBC to earmark some portion of Rs. 5 crore for financial help to advocates’ clerks without granting additional funds, the Bench was informed. The counsel for the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru, contended that the KSBC, instead of submitting the scheme to the HC, published it on its website. It was also argued that the scheme was not proper as advocates who had registered for practice before January 1, 2010, or those above 40 years were made eligible to seek financial assistance leaving out young advocates. The Bench adjourned further hearing till September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/submit-scheme-to-disburse-rs-5-cr-for-needy-advocates/article32500628.ece
02 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Priest trampled to death by elephant near Hassan||A priest was trampled to death by an elephant at Kollahalli near Sakleshpur town on Tuesday morning. H.R. Asthika, 56, encountered the elephant when he came out of his house to fetch water from an open well around 5 a.m. He is survived by his wife and daughter. He worked as a priest in a temple nearby. A herd of elephants have been roaming in the area for the last few days. The Forest Department officials had made announcements about the elephants’ movement and appealed to the people to be careful. It is said that Asthika ventured out of his house in the morning and failed to notice the animals near his place. The death triggered a protest by local people in Sakleshpur town. They demanded that the State government capture all elephants and relocate them to avoid further deaths. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, Deputy Conservator of Forests Sivaram Babu and other officers visited the spot. Mr. Babu told The Hindu: “This is the first death in an elephant attack in Alur and Sakleshpur taluks in the last two-and-a-half-years. We had taken many initiatives to alert people and avoid any untoward incident,” he said. The department handed over a cheque for Rs. 2.5 lakh to the victim’s family. The remaining amount of Rs. 2.5 lakh would be credited to the family soon. Besides that, the family would get Rs. 2,000 every month for the next five years. Elephant capture The Forest Department had radio-collared three female elephants, leading the herds, to track their movements. However, the radio-collars had stopped functioning as the batteries had dried out. “We have decided to radio-collar four elephants so that the public could be alerted about their movements,” said Mr. Babu. The officer said he would write to senior officers to initiate the process to capture a few elephants that have been causing trouble in the area.  The Forest Department handed over a cheque for Rs. 2.5 lakh to the victim’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priest-trampled-to-death-by-elephant-near-hassan/article32500654.ece
02 September 2020||Hassan/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa tests positive||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. In a tweet, Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in-charge of Shivamogga, said he has been admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru as per his doctor’s advice. He said he had no health complications and exuded confidence that he would recover soon. Meanwhile, Shashikala Jolle, Minister for Women and Child Welfare, who tested positive on Monday, said that her two sons tested positive in Nippani on Tuesday. Her husband and Lok Sabha member from Chikkodi Anna Saheb Jolle tested negative. They will undergo the mandatory two-week home quarantine, Mr. Jolle told journalists in Nippani on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-ministers-test-positive/article32500627.ece
02 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rural bus services gradually picking up||With economic activities reviving and restrictions on movement, particularly of public transport services, being relaxed slowly, bus services to rural areas by the Hubballi Division of the North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) are gradually picking up. The Hubballi Division of NWKRTC has been running bus services to rural areas for the last four days and barring in villages that have reported a high number of COVID-19 positive cases, villagers are gradually choosing public transportation for reaching hoblis, towns, taluks and district headquarters for their work. Divisional Controller of Hubballi Division H. Ramanagoudar told The Hindu on Tuesday that with restrictions on the number of passengers to be allowed per bus being removed on Wednesday, they hoped that things would improve further. Till date only 30 passengers were allowed to travel on a bus. Mr. Ramanagoudar said that with relaxations being removed now, “we will be able to run buses with full capacity”. However, passengers will not be allowed to travel standing. “We have received good patronage so far in Kalghatgi, Kundgol and Annigeri areas. However, there are very few people travelling in Navalgund taluk as the number of positive cases there has been high,” he added. He clarified that only passengers wearing masks will be allowed to board buses and drivers and conductors had been asked to mandatorily sanitise buses in the morning and in the evening. As of now, rural buses are being run in the mornings and evenings. “We are also running buses in the afternoons based on demand on some routes,” he said. Hubballi Division of NWKRTC provides bus services to 221 villages in its area of operation and now, bus services to 182 villages have been resumed. It plans to resume operations to the other villages too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-bus-services-gradually-picking-up/article32500841.ece
02 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Resumption of train services to Mumbai, North India sought||The Hubballi-based Rail Pravasi Samiti has urged Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi to take steps to resume train services to locations in North India and Mumbai for the benefit of people who travel regularly by trains. In a letter to Mr. Angadi, which was released to the media here on Tuesday, president of Rail Pravasi Samiti and member of Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee (DRUCC), Mahendra Singhi and another DRUCC member Prakash Kataria have urged the Union Minister to take the requisite steps. “Train services to Mumbai and North India from Hubballi have not resumed yet. I urge that train services be resumed from Hubballi to Mumbai. Also, re-start services of Bengaluru-Hubballi-Jodhpur Express and Bengaluru-Hubballi-Ajmer Express,” Mr. Singhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resumption-of-train-services-to-mumbai-north-india-sought/article32500842.ece
02 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Book on Vaijnath Patil||To commemorate the first death anniversary of the former Minister Vaijnath Patil on November 2, the Vaijnath Patil Memorial Committee has decided to bring out a remembrance book in the name of the late leader who played a crucial role in getting special status to Kalyana Karnataka with the inclusion of Article 371(J) of the Constitution. M.B. Ambulagi, member of the memorial committee, has asked writers to mail their articles along with a photo before September 15 to: 371jvaijanathpatil@gmail.c-om or send them to Vaijnath Patil Memorial Committee, MIG 4, Shanti Nagar, Kalaburagi 585103.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-on-vaijnath-patil/article32500837.ece
02 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hearing in magisterial inquiry of police firing concludes||Hearing in the magisterial inquiry of the December 19, 2019 police firing, which had claimed two lives, in Mangaluru, concluded here on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate of Udupi G. Jagadeesha conducted the inquiry. Speaking to media persons after the hearing, Mr. Jagadeesha said that he will submit a report to the government by September 20 as there is time till then. In all, 146 persons have deposed before the inquiry. Sindhu B. Rupesh, who was the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada when the incident took place, gave her statement through a video conference on Tuesday. In addition, an Assistant Commissioner of Police gave his statement and submitted documents on behalf of the Police Commissioner. Also, three doctors gave their statement relating to FSL report, on Tuesday. Apart from these, 45 from the public and 13 police personnel gave their statement. The police had opened fired when an anti-CAA protest turned violent in the afternoon on that day.  Jagadeesha says that he will submit a report to the government by September 20 as there is time till then||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hearing-in-magisterial-inquiry-of-police-firing-concludes/article32500843.ece
02 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wild tusker found dead near Kukke Subrahmanya||A wild tusker was found dead at Puthila under Bilinele village near Kukke Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday. It is suspected to have been electrocuted. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Conservator of Forests V. Karikalan told The Hindu that the tusker is suspected to have come into contact with live electricity lines while pulling down a “Baine Mara” ( Caryota urens ) nearby, whose leaves are its fodder. The carcass was found on a government land close to Kukke Subrahmanya-Kaikamba-Gundia Road, he said and added that an injury was noticed on the animal’s left foreleg. The elephant could have been aged between 25 and 30, he said. Mr. Karikalan said that the overhead power lines were not sagging and they had been drawn at a height, as specified. He said that he has now asked the department staff to identify whether elephant corridors or places where wild elephants or other wild animals frequent have such electricity lines that could pose a threat to them. Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company authorities have been alerted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wild-tusker-found-dead-near-kukke-subrahmanya/article32500846.ece
02 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nagarahole tiger poaching case: one more held||The team investigating the tiger poaching case reported from Nagarahole on August 26 has nabbed one more person suspected to be part of the gang involved in the crime. The accused was identified as Hottengada Ranju alias Biddappa. The investigating team traced him to near a petrol pump opposite the KSRTC bus stand in Ramanagaram town. The authorities had already arrested one person, Santosh, within 24 hours of the crime being reported. Deputy Conservator of Forests Mahesh Kumar said another team had recovered four claws and two canines from a coffee estate adjoining the property of the accused. Three more persons suspected to be part of the gang — Kandera Shashi, Kandera Sharanu, and Raju — are absconding and a search is on for them. Themale tiger, around 6 years of age, was found dead in the Kalahalla range of Nagarahole National Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nagarahole-tiger-poaching-case-one-more-held/article32500641.ece
02 September 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Bulk Drug Farm Park to come up on 1,000 acres in Kadechur-Badiyal||Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that the Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Area in Yadgir district will shortly get a Bulk Drug Farm Park on 1,000 acres of land. He was addressing reporters after visiting the industrial area on Tuesday. He said that the proposed Bulk Drug Farm Park will come up on 1,000 acres of land as Raichur MP Raja Amareshwar Naik has shown special interest in bringing such a park to the region. He has also submitted a proposal to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda. “We have reserved the required 1,000 acres of land out of the 3,300 acres that has been acquired in the industrial area. A delegation will be taken to Delhi to discuss the proposal with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Sadananda Gowda,” Mr. Shettar said and added that this industry will help develop the district. Recalling Invest Karnataka-Hubballi that was held in Hubballi, the Minister said that nearly a 1,000 industrialist-delegates participated and 43 memorandums of understanding had been signed. “As many as 15 companies have shown interest in establishing factories in the Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Area. After the Invest meet, Rs. 31,000 crore was proposed to be invested to develop industries in the State,” he added. Mr. Shettar said that remarkable changes had been brought in by the industrial policy, and an authority has been constituted to give a boost to tier 2 and tier 3 cities. A Special Investment Region Area has been adopted in the policy covering Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga and these areas will see considerable growth, he added. The Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act 2002 has been amended giving certain relaxations to industrialists and the required land will be allotted to them. According to the amendment, industries with less than Rs. 15 crore capital will get the necessary approvals from the district administrations and those with more than Rs. 15 crore capital will get approvals from a committee headed by the Chief Minister and himself. “Industrialists can start their industries immediately after applying for permission without any waiting period. This was the first such reforms in the country,” Mr. Shettar said. ‘Meaningless remarks’ Reacting sharply to Monday’s remarks by the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Shetter said that “his [Mr. Kumaraswamy] remarks are meaningless.” “Initially, he was saying that the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and the Congress had toppled the coalition government. Now, he is saying that it was due to the drug mafia’s money. He will change his versions according to the circumstances he is in. He could have instead revealed the right reason why the coalition government collapsed,” Mr. Shettar said. Mr. Raja Amareshwar Naik, Chairman of Nijasharana Ambigara Chowdayya Development Board Baburao Chinchansur, MLA Shivaraj Patil, MLC B.G. Patil, BJP district president Sharanabhupal Reddy and Chandrashekhargouda Maganur and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bulk-drug-farm-park-to-come-up-on-1000-acres-in-kadechur-badiyal/article32500839.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flood-hit districts received record rainfall in August||Most districts affected by floods and landslips over the past few weeks recorded very heavy rainfall, much above the normal for August. While Belagavi and Dharwad recorded a whopping 164% and 126% more then normal rainfall the past month, Kodagu, Udupi and Chikkamagaluru also recorded much higher than normal rainfall. “There was a wind shear zone formation over this region extending from Southern Maharashtra and over North Karnataka that led to heavy rainfall over this region,” said C.S. Patil, director, Meteorological Centre, Bengaluru. A shear zone is a zone filled with opposing winds at a high altitude that leads to rain bearing systems. But, overall IMD data shows that some districts such as Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru had a marginally deficient rainfall this season – recording a deficient by nearly half than expected in July, indicating an irregular pattern of rainfall in these regions. Districts like Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga and Mandya that got more than normal rainfall this monsoon season, have recorded deficient rainfall in August by a large margin. Mandya, which recorded 33% more than normal rainfall this season, recorded a deficient of 41% in August. Bengaluru Urban district recorded a deficient of 51% in August but received 19% more than normal rainfall this season. “These variations within a season are common in the State and are a function of creation of low-pressure areas and shear zones,” Mr. Patil said. The IMD has forecast good rain across the State over the next five days and has predicted that the deficiency will be made up this month. Farmers are happy due to the good rain this monsoon. The ongoing sowing for rabi crop is expected to reach record proportions this year. “Usually, rabi sowing in the State is around 75%, but it has already crossed 90% and is expected to cover all land, which will be a record. The pandemic saw many youths returning to the villages and taking up sowing. Good rain has only encouraged them more,” said Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president, KRRS. However, he said the government is found wanting in compensating for crop loss in the recent floods and warned that there may be a severe fertiliser shortage as well in the offing. “There is a bumper crop of toor dal in North Karnataka and the harvest of the rabi crop is expected to be good too. The government must initiate advance measures like MSP procurement to ensure there is no price crash,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-hit-districts-received-record-rainfall-in-august/article32500651.ece
02 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha’s daily caseload slumps to 32||In a major relief, fresh COVID-19 cases have dropped sharply in the district. While 32 people newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 302 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease made a full recovery on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 31 acquired the virus through local transmission. Among the 31 contact cases, nine were reported from Chengannur, and eight from Mararikulam South. Rest of the contact cases were from Aryad (4), Thanneermukkom (3), Mulakuzha (2) and one case each from Cherthala, Nooranad, Haripad, Mannar and Alappuzha. The number of active cases stands at 1,875. Restrictions have been imposed at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, after hospital staff tested positive. MCH superintendent R.V. Ramlal said functioning of the outpatient unit was limited. Wards 8 and 9 in Kainakary, 6 and 9 in Mannar, ward 6 in Ambalappuzha South, parts of ward 12 in Thrikkunnappuzha grama panchayat and ward 21 in Alappuzha municipality were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzhas-daily-caseload-slumps-to-32/article32500956.ece
02 September 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Landslip toll at 66 as one more body recovered||The death toll in the Pettimudy landslip rose to 66 with the recovery of one more body on Sunday. The body was identified as that of Rani, 44. The body was recovered from Boothakkuzhi, nearly 14 km from the landslip site. Local people and forest officials located the body found trapped in the roots of a tree on the riverbed. Those still missing in the landslip are Dineshkumar, 20, Kasthuri, 26, Priyadarshini, 7, and Karthika, 21. The search may continue for the missing persons, said a revenue official.  Counselling by DLSA Meanwhile, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) provided counselling to the children who survived the landslip on August 7. As many as 17 children had died in the landslip while 26 others who survived the devastation had been rendered homeless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslip-toll-at-66-as-one-more-body-recovered/article32500997.ece
02 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Joseph faction to file appeal||Kerala Congress (M) faction leader P.J. Joseph has said that the Election Commission of India’s decision to allow the party symbol, Two Leaves, to the Mani faction is illegal and taken without considering various court orders. Mr. Joseph said the decision would be dealt with legally and politically. The victory of the Jose faction was only temporary, he said adding that an appeal would be filed at the Delhi High Court soon. He said the UDF meeting was postponed not because of the poll panel’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joseph-faction-to-file-appeal/article32500932.ece
02 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Subdued Onam for Kochiites||Onam celebrations in the city remained subdued as most people stayed indoors and preferred to celebrate the festival at their homes on Monday as COVID-19 restrictions continued. Major centres like shopping malls, Kaloor Junction, Menaka and M.G. Road remained near-deserted throughout the day with a little movement of vehicles being noticed late in the afternoon. The usual groups of traditional drummers, caparisoned elephants, people dressed up as Mahabali and ‘Pulikali’ artistes were nowhere to be seen in any part of the city on Thiruvonam day. Missing were also the otherwise ubiquitous sellers of flowers and ‘payasam’ along the main roads of the city. The Thrikkakara temple, which is the seat of the Onam legend Mahabali, did not witness any celebrations. Usually, the temple celebrations last over a week. The flag hoisting, a low-key affair, was held on August 22. While last year saw about a dozen elephants adding colour to the ceremonies, they were missing altogether this year. All the rituals were carried out as on the Thiruvonam day but devotees stayed away. The celebrations came to a close on Monday with the traditional ceremonial ‘aarattu’ in the evening. The votive lunch, in which around 50,000 people participate during normal times, was not served this year owing to the COVID-19 restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subdued-onam-for-kochiites/article32500930.ece
02 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Panchayat goes paperless||Three years after it received ISO certification for its office administration, the Nedumbassery panchayat has added another feather to its cap by becoming the first panchayat in the district to fully migrate to the Integrated Local Governance Management System (ILGMS) developed by the Information Kerala Mission. The system is expected to streamline delivery of services with enhanced efficiency by replacing individual non-web-based software with a single integrated web-based application. The Nedumbassery panchayat was among the 12 panchayats chosen for the adoption of the system on a pilot basis. “We have emerged as the first panchayat to adopt it in a timely manner. The development assumes significance especially during the prevailing situation as it complements the COVID-19 protocol and helps delivery of public services while maintaining physical distancing,” said panchayat vice president P.C. Somashekharan. Online delivery of certificates was earlier restricted mainly to birth and death certificates and marriages certificates. With the advent of the new system, the public may apply for and receive all certificates and also access other services online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-goes-paperless/article32500923.ece
02 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||9 held on drunken brawl charge||A drunken celebration on the eve of Onam soon spiralled out of control and ended up in a mass brawl at a colony in Eloor on Sunday night. The Eloor police arrested nine persons in two different cases in this connection on Tuesday and released them on bail. According to the police, a celebration was under way at the colony and the participants soon broke into dancing. Soon thereafter, an argument erupted leading to the fight. None was seriously injured though, the police said. The police registered a case invoking IPC Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 294(b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intentions).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-held-on-drunken-brawl-charge/article32500927.ece
02 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||161 test positive in Ernakulam||A total of 161 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Tuesday. Among them are seven people who arrived from outside the State. The district administration said 134 people were cured of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Of them, 132 are from Ernakulam while two are from other districts. A total of 1,091 people were brought under observation in their homes while 1,397 people completed their observation cycle. The total number of people under COVID-19 observation in the district has gone up to 16,661. Hospitals in the district saw 177 new admissions on Tuesday while 137 people were discharged from both hospitals and first-line treatment centres. There are 2,270 people undergoing treatment for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/161-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article32500924.ece
02 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Farmers stage fast||Pineapple farmers, demanding a complete revival package for them, waiving of loans, and new loans without interest to save the COVID-19-battered pineapple sector, staged a one-day fast at the pineapple market in Vazhakulam on Thiruvonam day on Monday. The farmers, under the aegis of the All Kerala Pineapple Farmers’ Association, also demanded support to the family of K.K. Anil, a farmer in Ayavana, who committed suicide last week in the midst of mounting debts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-stage-fast/article32500931.ece
02 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Dip in Kollam cases, 25 test positive||The district reported a sharp dip in COVID -19 cases with the tally coming down to 25 on Tuesday. The patients include 21 contact cases, one health worker, and three others who travelled from Africa, Saudi Arabia, and Tamil Nadu. The health worker who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 is a 31-year-old Perumpuzha resident who was working in a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Kollam currently has 15,073 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 45,154. While 1,111 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 17,681 primary and 4,944 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. At present 12 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are operating in the district and the number of recoveries on Tuesday is 67. For the last few days, the district has been reporting an increase in caseload, the number of new patients hitting an all-time high of 234 on Saturday. 1,453 active cases Kollam at present has 1,453 active cases and a total of 131 persons from the district, including one health worker, tested positive on Monday. During the last few days Kollam Corporation, Perinad, Panmana, Neendakara and Alappad reported highest number of cases. Contact cases “Though Alappad reported several cases on Tuesday, they are all contacts inside the containment zone. All the four affected wards are under close monitoring and intensive testing is also going on. In Chavara and Panmana, there were positive cases among those who attended a wedding and the transmission started from there,” said an official. According to the Health Department, a number of persons from fishermen families tested positive in the last couple of days including the 20 cases on Tuesday. “Fishers from containment zones are not allowed to venture into the sea and strict action will be taken against those violating norms. Men from some families had already gone for fishing and steps have been taken to locate and test them. We are expecting the caseload to decline in the coming days,” she adds. Meanwhile, Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, reported three deaths, though the final swab reports of all three patients from NIV, Alappuzha are awaited. The cases include a 70-year-old Kaikulangara resident, 45-year-old Cheriyavelinallor resident, and a 25-year-old Anchal resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-kollam-cases-25-test-positive/article32500957.ece
02 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘Two Leaves’ for Mani faction||Marking an end to a long-drawn fight that began with the passing away of Kerala Congress (M) founder-chairman K.M. Mani, the Central Election Commission (CEC) has allocated the party’s election symbol, Two Leaves, to the faction led by Jose K. Mani. In an order passed with a 2:1 majority, the Commission said that “the group led by Jose K. Mani is the Kerala Congress (Mani) and is entitled to use its name and its reserved symbol Two Leaves for the purposes of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968.” It further added that Mr. Mani enjoyed majority support, both among the legislative as well as the organisational wings of the party.  Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Commission member Sushil Chandra passed the order along with a dissent note by the third member in the Commission Ashok Lavasa, who observed that neither of the factions could be considered as Kerala Congress (M) until the submission of further documents and their verification. Since Pala bypoll The dispute over the official symbol between the two factions began during the Pala byelection in September last year. The poll, necessitated by the death of the Pala legislator and KC(M) chairman K.M.Mani, had caused a split in the party along the factional lines led by Jose K. Mani and P.J. Joseph. During the byelection, Mr. Joseph had refused to allocate the party symbol to Jose Tom Pulikkunnel, the nominee of the Mani group. Following this, Mr. Pulikkunnel had to contest as a UDF Independent and was allotted ‘pineapple’ as his election symbol.  The ECI had arrived at a conclusion by taking into account the test of majority and numerical strength among party legislators and in organisational committees. “On the basis of the affidavits submitted in support of the petitioner (Jose K. Mani) and the respondent (P.J. Joseph) by the members of the legislative and organisational wing of the party, it is clear that four out of seven members of the legislative wing support the faction led by the petitioner. On the other hand, three out of seven members of the legislative wing support the faction led by the respondent. In the organisational wing of the party, that is the State Committee of the Kerala Congress (Mani), affidavits of 179 undisputed members have been submitted in support of the petitioner while affidavits of 122 undisputed members have been submitted in support of the respondent,” the Commission observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-leaves-for-mani-faction/article32500933.ece
02 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bolstered by CEC order, Mani targets Joseph faction||Bolstered by the Central Election Commission’s order settling the factional dispute in his favour, Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani has now let the sword of disqualification dangle over the rival faction. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, Mr. Mani said the doors of the Kerala Congress (M) had been kept open for all those who were on the other side. Through its order, the CEC has not just allotted the party symbol, but also recognised the party leadership. “There are many who mistook us and switched sides but we have no complaints whatsoever. But people who have won the election under the party symbol should be with the KC(M) family. Should they choose to stay out, steps will be initiated to disqualify them,” he said. In an apparent reference to rival leader P.J. Joseph, MLA, and his deputy Mons Joseph, MLA, Mr. Mani reiterated stern action against all those who had violated the party whip to stay away from the Rajya Sabha election last week. Incidentally, veteran leader C.F. Thomas, MLA, who owe allegiance to the Joseph faction, had abstained from the election proceedings due to health reasons. Coalition before polls Regarding the party’s stance in the upcoming civic body election, Mr. Mani asserted that the KC(M) would be part of a political coalition prior to the election. “For the time being, we are maintaining equal distance from all the three fronts. The current focus is to reorganise the party and strengthen its base at the grassroots level,” Mr.Mani added.   UDF meet The United Democratic Front, which was slated to hold a meeting on Thursday to finalise the action against the Mani group, too has been caught off guard by the CEC order. The coalition had taken a strong exception to the Mani group’s decision to abstain from the Rajya Sabha election and no-confidence motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bolstered-by-cec-order-mani-targets-joseph-faction/article32500935.ece
02 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||62 cases reported in Kottayam||As many as 62 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases reported during the day, 61 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With 28 cases, Kottayam municipality continued to report the highest number of cases while Kooroppada and Pambadi reported six cases each. Cases were also emerged from Changanassery and Kurichy. With 115 recoveries during the day, the case load in Kottayam currently stands at 1,422 . Meanwhile, 15,603 persons are under observation in the district as on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/62-cases-reported-in-kottayam/article32500949.ece
02 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Panel warns of action||A steering committee meeting of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani here on Tuesday decided to direct the district committees to take stern action against those who do not return to the party fold. The meeting also decided to approach Assembly Speaker seeking action against the party legislators who had violated the official whip to abstain from the Rajya Sabha election and the no-confidence motion last week. Observing that the CEC order would give a major boost to the party cadre, the meeting noted that many, including elected representatives in local bodies, had been contacting the party leadership over the past two days for returning to the party fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-warns-of-action/article32500943.ece
02 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 155 cases, Malappuram 191||As many as 272 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday and Tuesday and 437 others recovered from the infection during the two days. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 155 of the cases were reported on Tuesday and 115 on Monday. The number of active cases in the district stands at 1,872. Kozhikode Corporation continues to have a chunk of the newly reported COVID-19 cases through local transmission with 50 of the 131 such cases being reported from here on Tuesday. The figures for Monday were 30 and 102, respectively. In Malappuram While 191 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Tuesday, 286 infected persons recovered from the disease. As many as 180 of the new patients contracted the disease through local transmission. However, the source of infection in six cases, including that of a health worker, could not be traced. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said 2,562 persons were under COVID-19 treatment and 47,120 were quarantined in the district. As many as 6,942 people have recovered from the disease since March. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 42 people tested positive on Tuesday. While 35 of them got the infection through local contacts, two came from other States. The source of infection in five cases could not be identified. There were 153 recoveries on Tuesday. Officials said 684 infected persons were being treated in hospitals in Palakkad. In Wayanad As many as eight cases of COVID-19 were reported in Wayanad district on Tuesday. While seven persons contracted the infection through local contact, one person came from Karnataka. The district saw 24 recoveries on the day. Patient missing A 32-year-old man who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 went missing from the first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at Dwaraka near Mananthavady in the district on Monday night. The Health Department authorities identified the patient as a resident of Chamarajanagar in Karnataka. He was admitted to the FLTC after he tested positive on August 27. He went missing after 8 p.m. on Monday, sources said. The Mananthavady police have registered a case based on the Health Department’s complaint. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 15 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. All of them contracted the disease through local transmission, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. As many as 6,386 people are under observation in the district. In Kannur As many as 77 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kannur on Tuesday. Of the total, 59 persons were infected through contact, while one came from abroad and 11 from other States. Six of the infected are health workers. There are 11,468 people under observation in the district. In Thrissur In Thrissur, 133 people were tested positive on Tuesday. With 120 people recovering from COVID-19, there are 1,351 active cases in the district. Of the total cases reported on Tuesday, 125 were infected through contact. The source of infection in 11 cases is not known. A total of 8,822 people are under observation. A triple lockdown has been imposed in 13 wards of Eriyad panchayat.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Wayanad, Kasaragod, Kannur and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-records-155-cases-malappuram-191/article32500922.ece
02 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cong. offices attacked||Apparently in protest against the killing of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists at Venjaramoodu in Thiruvananthapuram, local offices of the Congress party in Kozhikode district came under attack at midnight on Monday. Congress leaders alleged that the CPI(M) had masterminded the attacks, including the hurling of a steel bomb at Kallachi near Nadapuram and petrol bombs at Muhammad Abdurahiman Reading Room and Library at Arekkad. No casualties have been reported, however the buildings have been damaged. The window panes of the building at Kallachi were shattered in the attack. The Nadapuarm police have registered a case in connection with the incident. Investigators are examining the CCTV footage to identify miscreants. A forensic team also visited the spot and collected evidence. In another incident, unidentified persons attacked the Congress office at Kakkodi. Miscreants destroyed portraits of Mahatma Gandhi, Ayyankkali and former Prime Ministers Rajiv Gandhi and Indira Gandhi. Destruction of flag posts and attacks were reported at the party offices at Kuruvathoor, Polilkkavu, near Koyilandy, Ulliyeri and Arikkulam. Protest staged Congress workers led by seniors leaders staged a sit-in in front of the Kallachi office demanding the arrest of culprits. Congress leaders led by M.K. Raghavan, MP, and KPCC vice president T. Siddique staged a protest in front of the office of the District Police Chief at Mananchira in Kozhikode. IUML leader M.K. Muneer inaugurated the protest. Mr. Siddique accused the CPI(M) leadership of planning the attacks ahead of the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-offices-attacked/article32500928.ece
02 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. squads prevent six illegal constructions||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation’s special squads to check unauthorised construction during the long holidays have been able to stop six construction activities in five days. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said that the squads had received six complaints from different parts of the city, all of which had been addressed. “We have asked the parties concerned to withhold the construction for a few days and that the legalities will be dealt with once the corporation office resumes operations after the holidays”, he said. The squads, each of which consists of an overseer and an assistant engineer, were deployed in view of the possibility of rampant construction activities during the continuous holidays on account of Onam. “This has happened in the previous years. They take advantage of the holidays when all government offices are closed and the officials are unavailable”, the Secretary said, explaining the reason behind the formation of the squads. The squads were on duty on all the six days from August 28 to September 2. Mr. Francis said that the number of unauthorised constructions was considerably fewer this year owing to the general crisis in the construction sector. “We have got help from the ward councillors who are the ones who get informed at first by local people. Besides, the health squads that were already in action owing to the COVID-19 pandemic situation were also instructed to report if they came upon any illegal activities”, the Secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-squads-prevent-six-illegal-constructions/article32500920.ece
02 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No end in sight to junior nurses’ strike||There seems to be no end in sight to the ongoing indefinite strike by junior nurses attached to government medical college hospitals in the State. The strike will enter its second week on Friday and the government is sitting on the demand for an increase in stipend, claims the Compulsory Nursing Service Staff Association. One-year period Students who graduate from government nursing colleges and register with the Kerala Nurses and Midwives Council are appointed for a year in government medical college hospitals. According to B.P. Arjun, president of the association, 375 nurses in various government medical college hospitals have been keeping off from work since August 21, seeking a rise in the wages. He claimed that their salaries were revised in 2016 from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 13,900. However, the staff nurses in government medical colleges, who were doing the same job, were getting Rs. 27,800. Mr. Arjun pointed out that the medical college hospital authorities had earlier threatened to cancel their registration and evict them from hostels. Later, final-year BSc (Nursing) students were asked to join duty to replace the striking nurses. Both these moves, however, did not make any headway. In the meantime, 16 of their members tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 while discharging COVID-19 duty and 70 others were asked to go in quarantine. There had been no move for formal talks either. “We will continue the strike till our demand is met,” Mr. Arjun said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-end-in-sight-to-junior-nurses-strike/article32500946.ece
02 September 2020||Mini Muringatheri,KERALA||Malayalam lullaby for intersex child takes social media by storm||Lullabies are aplenty in Malayalam. But nobody has ever thought of a lullaby for an intersex child. Many in our society are still not ready to believe that intersex children are born here. Transgender poet Vijayarajamallika’s ‘Aanalla Pennalla neeyente thenmani...’ may be the first lullaby for an intersex child in Malayalam, and it has already become viral on social media. “In a society that does not even acknowledge the birth of intersex children, it should be the mother who should give them love and care. Mothers’ support can instil confidence in them in the hostile society,” said the award- winning poet. “Children born with both sex organs have been identified as intersex. But our social norms identify it as an abnormality. Parents compel the doctors to conduct early surgery to make the child either male or female. Though the Madras High Court last year banned such surgeries, many superspecialty hospitals in Kerala do such operations regularly. The children have been forced to undergo hormonal treatments,” Ms. Vijayarajamallika says. But what the parents fail to understand is, such surgeries can change only their external appearance. The sexual orientations and emotions remain the same. Many such children, who express variable sex orientations, are later expelled from the family and society. “Society does not see them as normal. Many of them suffer from bipolar disorder and depression. They fail to become productive in society. Many of them get dropped out from education institutions,” said the poet who is also a winner of the Vayalar Ramavarma award of the Yuvakalasahithy. The parents get traumatised when an intersex child is born. The social stigma is so severe that in many places in north India, such children are killed as soon as they are born. No studies It is reported that there are 42 variations of intersex personalities. No serious studies have been conducted on this. Kerala society is still not ready to accept the fact that such children are born here. Even educated people think that such children are born because of some abnormal behaviours of their parents, she said. Shini Avantika has lent voice to the lullaby. Writer and teacher Sandhya Edakkunny has adapted the lullaby into Mohiniyattom. Nilambur Sunil Kumar is the music composer. Tamil version of the lullaby will be released soon, said Ms. Vijayarajamallika, whose poem Daivathinte Makal is part of syllabus in Madras University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayalam-lullaby-for-intersex-child-takes-social-media-by-storm/article32500937.ece
02 September 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Two-month online dance show to support homeless sisters a hit||A charity organisation in the district has impressed the art world by getting an array of artistes perform online to support two homeless sisters from Peringottukurissi. The 62-day celebrity dance live programme titled ‘Nritha Vismaya’ is set to conclude on Wednesday with an hour-long Odissi performance by Madhulita Mohapatra and her ensemble from Bengaluru. Daya Charitable Trust, Peringottukurissi, organised the 62-day live dance show to raise funds to support the siblings Babitha and Amrita. Babita is a postgraduate student of economics and Amrita a diploma student in computer science. “We are raising the funds with three objectives: to help the sisters construct a house of their own, to help them in their education, and to help them treat their cancer-stricken parents,” said Devi Shankar, coordinator of Daya Charitable Trust. While a number of artistes from the State were given a chance to perform, dancers of international repute too appeared frequently. Kathak dancer Anjali Mishra from Colombo, Odissi dancer Sheetal Metkar Watane from Amaravathi, and Manipuri dancer Ngambi Chanu from Manipur were among those who enthralled audiences online. The show was livestreamed on Daya Charitable Society’s Facebook page. People could watch the show at Facebook.com/Dayapki and could donate for the cause. The organisers would acknowledge the donations in the comments section. “I’m glad that our art is used for a noble cause,” said Ms. Mohapatra as she prepared for the grand finale on Wednesday. The show will be from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. On Thursday, all in-house artistes of Daya will perform live in a two-hour programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-month-online-dance-show-to-support-homeless-sisters-a-hit/article32500926.ece
02 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||11 turn positive in Pathanamthitta||The district on Tuesday reported 11 local cases. With this, the total number of cases stand at 852. The number of persons under observation is 12,053. The district also reported one more COVID-19 related fatality with a 68-year-old man succumbing to the virus infection. The deceased, a native of Azhiyidathuchira near Thiruvalla, died at his residence on August 30. A truenat test conducted later confirmed him positive for the virus. With this, the total number of deaths caused by COVID-19 in Pathanamthitta rose to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-turn-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article32500950.ece
02 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||227 more test positive, 394 recover in capital||Thiruvananthapuram reported 227 COVID-19 on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries went up by 394. Among the fresh cases, as many as 223 have been attributed to local transmission. The sources of infection in 71 newly reported cases are unknown. These include cases recorded in Manacaud, Medical College, Sreekaryam, Karamana, Chala, Maruthamkuzhi, Kazhakuttom, Vallakadavu, Nemom, Pallippuram, Pozhiyoor, Neyyattinkara, Parassala, Vithura and Kunnathukal. The official death toll in the district rose to 89 with the death of a 67-year-old Pulluvila native who died on August 26 being attributed to the disease. While the capital district recorded 408 COVID-19 cases on August 29, the daily caseload appeared to be on the fall with 310 and 221 cases being reported on the subsequent days. Sources maintained that the dip could be attributed to the fall in testing during the last few days when no testing camps were held on account of the Onam holidays. New action plan The district administration recently formulated a new action plan in anticipation of a sharp surge in COVID-19 cases during the next two weeks. The projection is also spurred by the chances of gatherings in commercial areas and other places during the Onam festivities. The recent spate of demonstrations fuelled by political issues has also worried the district authorities. Meanwhile, the district administration declared containment zones in Poundukadavu and Valiyaveli in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Njayayil in Ottoor grama panchayat; and Nalumukku and Chilambil in Azhoor grama panchayat. Restrictions that were imposed in Delavapuram in Cherunniyoor grama panchayat; Peringamala in Venganoor grama panchayat; Cheruveli in Anad grama panchayat; and Manacaud market in Manacaud and Lukes lane in Anbujavilasam road, Vanchiyoor in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/227-more-test-positive-394-recover-in-capital/article32500952.ece
02 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder of DYFI activists: 7 arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Tuesday arrested seven persons in connection with the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists near Venjaramoodu on the Thiruvonam eve on August 30. The gangland killing which sparked outrage across the State was spurred by a long-running political feud that has prevailed in the region since the general elections of 2019, the remand report submitted by the investigation team has stated. Hacked to death Haq Mohammed, 24, Kalunkinmugam unit president of DYFI, and Mithilaj, 30, a member of its Thevalakkad unit, were hacked to death in Thembamoodu by a gang of around 10 people. The police have so far arrested seven people, identified as Pullampara natives Sajeev, Sanal, Ajith, Shajith, Sathimon and Najeeb and Preeja of Madapuram, in connection with the case. Two others, Ansar and Unni were already in custody. The duo along with Sajeev and Sanal, reportedly had direct involvement in the murder. Ajith, Shajith, Sathimon and Najeeb, who have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days, were reportedly part of the conspiracy and were present during the crime. Preeja was arrested on the charge of providing safe refuge to Sajeev and Sanal and assisting them in their efforts to flee to Pathanamthitta. Most of those arrested were either Congress workers or closely linked to the party, the police said. Clash during campaign In the remand report, the police said that a clash at Thembamoodu during the campaign finale of the general elections led to political animosity among CPI(M) and Congress workers in the region. Prior to the murder case, two DYFI workers Shaheen, a witness in the current case, and Faizal were attacked on April 19 and May 25 respectively. The arrests for the alleged bid to murder Faizal purportedly prompted the accused to hatch the plot for the twin murder. Political tension Political tension prevailed with the CPI(M) accusing the Congress State leadership of sponsoring the crime. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who visited the houses of the deceased, alleged that hit squads had been formed by the Congress across the State. While CPI(M) workers had come under attack in Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha in the recent past, the possibility of similar attacks in other parts could not be ruled out. He said Adoor Prakash, MP, intervened to protect the accused in the case in connection with the murder attempt on Faizal.  The hartal called by United Democratic Front (UDF) in Vembayam grama panchayat on Tuesday in protest against the attack on Congress offices was total. While the party office at Venjaramoodu was set ablaze a day ago, offices at Vembayam and Kanyakulangara also came under attack. The Youth Congress also took out a march to the Secretariat. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala accused the CPI(M) of adopting a provocative stance. Claiming that the Venjaramoodu twin-murder was the result of a clash between two gangs of goons, he claimed that the incident was given a political tinge by the ruling party. K. Muraleedharan, MP, demanded a probe by a Central agency into the double murders. He was speaking to reporters after visiting the Congress-controlled library at Kuttimakool in Thalassery, which came under attack on Monday night, allegedly by CPI(M) workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-of-dyfi-activists-7-arrested/article32500942.ece
02 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||JEE-Main begins||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main), conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), for admissions to BTech/BE, BArch, and BPlanning courses in IITs, NITs, and other technical institutions got under way across several centres in Kerala on Tuesday. The computer-based examination, which was held in two three-hour shifts — from 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. — was marked by a stringent screening process during which the candidates were made to sanitise themselves and were provided fresh face masks at entry. While they were not physically frisked, the candidates were made to pass through metal detectors. Besides their identification documents and admit cards, the students were permitted to carry pencil boxes and water bottles. Roughly 50,000 students from the State have registered for the examinations being held in all districts except Wayanad. The capital district has five centres, including engineering colleges that have spacious computer laboratories. Several centres reported attendance of nearly 60% on the first day of the exam that will continue till September 6. The Part 1 of Mathematics, which comprised 25 questions(20 multiple choice and five numerical-based questions), was felt by many as “time-consuming” with many questions requiring lengthy calculations. Papers on aptitude and drawing were easy, they said. The top ranking candidates will qualify for the JEE (Advanced) examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jee-main-begins/article32500947.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online meet of women’s groups on Constitution||A collective of around 500 women’s organisations from across the country will organise ‘If we do not rise’, an online get-together to protect constitutional values, on September 5 at 5.30 pm. The online meet will be held through the official Facebook page of ‘If we do not rise’. The online event is being organised as a protest against recent instances of alleged attacks on the country’s Constitution and its values.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-meet-of-womens-groups-on-constitution/article32500955.ece
02 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Onam celebrated||The former students (1997 batch) of the Central High School in Attakulangara organised an Onam celebration for those who were rehabilitated at the school from the streets during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-celebrated/article32500954.ece
02 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Underage rider caught||The Peroorkada police apprehended an underage rider for rash driving and illegal use of motorcycle late on Monday. According to Station House Inspector Saijunath V., the teenager was caught following reports of illegal motorcycle racing along the Marapalam-Kowdiar Public road. The police also booked his parents for permitting him to ride the motorcycle. The police also initiated steps to cancel the registration certificate and licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/underage-rider-caught/article32500953.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sinha, Thachankary promoted as DGPs||The government has promoted Arunkumar Sinha, Director, Special Protection Group (on Central deputation), and Tomin J. Thachankary, Additional Director of Police, Crimes, to the rank of Director General of Police (DGP). The government said it would issue the posting order of Mr. Thachankary separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sinha-thachankary-promoted-as-dgps/article32500938.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IGNOU extends deadline||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for submitting applications for fresh admission/re-registration for all programmes till September 15 for its ongoing admissions to the July 2020 session. For details, call 0471-2344113/2344120; email: rotrivandrum@ignou.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ignou-extends-deadline/article32500941.ece
02 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||DCC presidents appointed||The All India Congress Committee has appointed M.P. Vincent and U. Rajeevan as the presidents of the District Congress Committees in Thrissur and Kozhikode respectively, a release issued by AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal, MP, here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-presidents-appointed/article32500940.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-care/article32500960.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Keeping tradition alive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-tradition-alive/article32500945.ece
02 September 2020||DWARAKA TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Horse dies at Chinna Tirupati||A horse died while one more fell sick at the Sri Venkateswara Swamyvari Devasthanam (Chinna Tirupati) in West Godavari district. Temple Executive Officer (EO) R. Prabhakar Rao said that three horses — Swetha, Ashwa and Yogini — fell sick after eating fodder on Sunday. Swetha died while Ashwa is still under observation. Yogini has recovered, the EO said. Veterinary assistant G. Srinivas, who is taking care of the horses, elephant and cows at the Devasthanam, said four-year-old Swetha probably died of indigestion. “We are giving fluids to Ashwa and the horse’s condition is stable. Yogini has made a full recovery,” Mr. Srinivas said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/horse-dies-at-chinna-tirupati/article32501027.ece
02 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||108, 104 ambulance drivers felicitated in Guntur||All governments should work for the welfare of people and any party in power should work single-mindedly for the well-being of people, said Ajeya Kallam, Adviser to the State Government. Mr. Kallam was here to take part in a programme organised by the Andhra Pradesh Madya Vimochana Prachara Committee chairman V. Lakshman Reddy to felicitate drivers of the 108 and 104 ambulance service here on Tuesday on the eve of the 11th death anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Mr. Kallam recalled the legacy of Rajasekhara Reddy, and said he had always strived for the welfare of the people and was an able administrator. “I headed a committee which submitted a report on farmer suicides in Andhra Pradesh, and in one year alone, in 1997, 7,000 farmers had committed suicide due to mounting debts, lack of access to quality healthcare, education, irrigation facilities and unemployment in families. Mr. Reddy was moved by the findings of the report and launched the YSR Aarogyasri, 108 and fee reimbursement schemes,” said Mr. Kallam. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that the drivers of the ambulances have worked with indomitable courage and spirit of sacrifice in transporting COVID-19 patients to hospitals. Mr. Ananda Kumar said that he was fortunate to have Rajasekhara Reddy as Chief Minister while launching a massive forest land distribution scheme at Utnoor in Adilabad district in August 2009, a month before his tragic death. Sai Swaroop, CEO of the 108 ambulance service, said that 1.42 lakh patients and 82,000 primary and secondary contacts have been moved from their homes in ambulances. The drivers showed a lot of courage during this crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/108-104-ambulance-drivers-felicitated-in-guntur/article32501020.ece
02 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM arrives at Idupulapaya for YSR death anniversary||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy arrived at the YSR Estates at Idupulapaya in Kadapa district on Tuesday by a helicopter from Kadapa airport. Mr. Reddy will participate in the death anniversary of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at his ‘samadhi’ on Wednesday along with his family members by placing a wreath. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was in place at the reception in view of the COVID-19 situation. The district administration had not only enforced stringent physical distancing but also got all the prospective visitors tested for the virus in advance. Earlier, Mr. Reddy reached the Kadapa airport by a special flight from Gannavaram along with his wife Bharathi and Additional Secretary K. Dhananjaya Reddy. He was received at the airport by Deputy CM S.B. Amzath Basha, BC Welfare Minister C. Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, SP K.K.N. Anburajan, and legislators P. Ravindranath Reddy (Kamalapuram) and K. Srinivasulu (Railway Kodur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-arrives-at-idupulapaya-for-ysr-death-anniversary/article32501032.ece
02 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel to probe damage to mangrove||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), South Zone has constituted a four-member joint committee to probe into the alleged damage done to the mangrove mudflat at Kumbabhisekham near Kakinada by GMR Energy Limited and East Coast Concessions Private Limited (ECPL) . Early this year, the GMR and the ECPL dredged the mudflat on the seafront for creating a channel to transport its decommissioned barge mounted power plant and dumped the dredge spoil on the mudflat. The dredging activity was stopped after the issue was highlighted in a report titled ‘Power plant’s dredging activity poses threat to mudflat’ published in The Hindu on May 22. Former bureaucrat and environmental activist E.A.S. Sarma and wetland expert K. Mrutyumjaya Rao moved the NGT, alleging the destruction of the mangrove cover by the GMR and the ECPL. Alleging that a bund has been built to prevent the entry of seawater into the mangrove, they claimed that the area fell in the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ-1) category. Deadline set for report On August 27, Justice K. Ramakrishna and expert member Saibal Dasgupta heard the case and constituted the committee comprising a senior officer of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (Chennai Regional Office), a senior officer of A.P. Coastal Zone Management Authority, a senior officer not below the rank of Chief Conservator of Forest and the Divisional Forest Officer of Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary. The panel has been told to submit the report on or before October 13. “The panel has been directed to look into the nature of damage done to the mangrove mudflat due to the alleged dumping of dredge spoil, the construction of the bund and its effects on the eco-sensitive zone of the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary,” the NGT stated in its order. The panel will also suggest remedial measures to restore the damage, apart from assessing the environmental compensation needed. ‘Permission granted illegally’ Mr. Sarma, in the petition, also sought action against the officials of the A.P. Maritime Board, alleging that permissions were granted in violation of law on February 6 and June 10 for dumping of dredge spoil in the mangrove. He demanded that the bund built surrounding to the mangrove be removed and the dredge spoil be cleared. “The mangrove at Kumbabhisekham mudflat is one of the prime habitat for two birds—Great knot, an endangered species, and Indian skimmer, which has been listed in vulnerable category. The major part of the mangrove cover at Kumbabhisekham has gone now,” Mr. Mruthyumjaya Rao told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-panel-to-probe-damage-to-mangrove/article32501044.ece
02 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rs. 316 cr. being spent on renovation of schools’||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday said that at least 40 government schools were being renovated with the financial assistance from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) in the district. Inspecting the facilities at Mandal Parishad Adarsh School, a model school of the Nadu-Nedu programme, at Indrapalem in Kakinada rural mandal, Mr. Muralidhar said at least Rs. 316 crore is being spent on renovation of 1,372 government schools under the programme. In Rampa Agency, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) In-Charge Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya on Monday appealed to the education officials to seek support from village volunteers to increase enrolment in class 5 and Intermediate in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-316-cr-being-spent-on-renovation-of-schools/article32500587.ece
02 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman allegedly kills husband||A 40-year-old woman allegedly murdered her husband and tried to establish it as natural death under the Katrenikona police limits in East Godavari district. The incident occurred in the early hours of Saturday and came to light on Tuesday after she reportedly confessed to the crime when the family members of her husband and the villagers grilled her on the suspicion over the death. Amalapuram DSP Masoon Basha said U. Balamani, who returned from Bahrain recently, reportedly with the help of her daughter, strangled her husband U. Narasimha Murthy (45) to death in the early hours of Saturday and projected it as a natural death. According to Mr. Basha, Balamani had suspected her husband of being in a relationship with another woman while she was away in Bahrain. The police have launched an investigation based on a complaint from the family members of the victim. The accused reportedly confessed to the crime on Tuesday when the villagers and the family members grilled her suspecting the cause of death. No arrests so far No arrest has been made so far. The body is yet to be exhumed for the investigation, Mr. Basha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-allegedly-kills-husband/article32500578.ece
02 September 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pulasa’ dishes go missing from the platter in Godavari districts||Dishes made of the ‘pulasa’ variety of fish have gone missing from the dining tables of many a gourmet in the twin Godavari districts. The COVID-19 has taken a heavy toll on the culinary delight of the region, rue foodies. ‘Pulasa’, or ‘Hilsa’ in local parlance, is the most sought-after fish variety not only in Andhra Pradesh but also in Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Maharashtra. The species is found in abundance in the Godavari during the monsoon season from July to September, and fishermen wait for its arrival. Traditional dish “Irrespective of its cost, it is our tradition to share ‘pulasa curry’ with our family members, friends and well-wishers every year. A few hotels and restaurants in the Godavari districts are known for their culinary skill in dishing out ‘pulasa chepala pulusu’ that commands a lot of demand,” said Chodisetty Nagamani of Narsapuram. “The ‘pulasa curry’ is a traditional dish in the Godavari districts. It is prepared on a firewood stove at low heat in a mud bowl. The soup will acquire a distinct tinge and taste the the next day,” said A. Savitri, taking pride in her expertise in preparing the curry. Impact on exports A fish vendor and exporter, G. Satyanarayana, said that depending on the demand, ‘pulasa’ costs anywhere between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 4,000. But this year, the poor market and export facilities shattered the dreams of the fishermen,” he said. “Pulasa is sold in the fish markets at Palakol, Chinchinada, Narsapuram, Razole, Akiveedu, Siddantham, Dowleswaram, Bhimavaram and other places. Normally, we export the fish variety to Nellore, Chennai, Bengaluru and other places. But COVID-19 has impacted exports this year,” said V. Ramakrishna, a seafood exporter. ‘Distinct taste’ “Pulasa has a taste of its own. As the catch dwindled and with many hotels and restaurants closed due to COVID, we have missed the ‘pulasa chepa pulusu’ this year. Ban on operation of international flight services and inter-State transportation has impacted its export,” said Ch. Sri Vidya, a student of Veeravasaram. “Pulasa travels into fresh water from the backwaters during the rainy season. Fish lovers buy it by paying advance every year, and most of the stocks are cleared on the river bund itself. This year, due to pandemic, there are neither catchers nor buyers,” said Sri Lakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pulasa-dishes-go-missing-from-the-platter-in-godavari-districts/article32501038.ece
02 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in COVID-19 deaths||Coronavirus continued its stranglehold over south coastal Andhra Pradesh as nine more patients succumbed to it in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. As many as 2,147 persons contracted the virus in the two districts during the period. Rapid increase Both districts witnessed rapid increase in COVID-19 deaths as also positive cases during the fortnight ending on August 31 when compared to other districts in the State. The combined death toll in the two districts rose to 587 with SPSR Nellore district accounting for 300 deaths and Prakasam district 287 deaths so far. While six more patients succumbed to the viral disease in SPSR Nellore district, three more patients died in Prakasam district during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department. For the fourth day in a row, SPSR Nellore district registered a record number of 1,259 fresh cases. As many as 888 persons got infected in Prakasam district during the period while 4,577 persons tested negative for the disease. The total number of cumulative confirmed cases rose to 56,285 in the two districts, including 33,455 in SPSR Nellore district. Discharges As many as 835 patients were cured of the disease in SPSR Nellore district, which has 8,477 active cases. In Prakasam district, 303 patients were discharged from hospitals on recovery. Following this, the number of active cases stood at 11,000. Over 8,500 patients were treated from their homes, while another 1,177 patients were provided treatment at COVID-19 Care Centres. As many as 1,327 symptomatic cases were treated at the 14 designated COVID-19 hospitals. Oxygenation/ventilation support was provided to 600 patients as they suffered from respiratory problem. Ongole accounted for 85 new cases. Fresh cases were also reported, from, among other places, Kothapatnam(44), Kandukur(25), Marripadu(21), Chimakurthy(14), Podili(11) and Addanki(11).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-let-up-in-covid-19-deaths/article32500580.ece
02 September 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Steady rise in the flood level in the Godavari||With huge inflows reaching the Wainganga, the Pranahita, the Wardha and other tributaries in the upstream areas, the flood level is raising in the Godavari. At 6 p.m. on Tuesday, a water level of 38.40 feet was recorded at Bhadrachalam, and it is rising, said authorities of the Central Water Commission (CWC). Youth goes missing The flood level might touch the first warning level (43 feet) by Tuesday midnight, or by Wednesday morning, the Irrigation officials said, and alerted the officers of various departments in both the Godavari districts. Meanwhile, A. Sri Hari, a youth of Purushotapatnam, who ventured into the river on a small boat, went missing. “Expert swimmers are searching for him,” the police said. The Godavari is rising at Kunavaram, Koida, cofferdam, Polavaram, Old Railway Bridge in Rajamahendravaram and at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. In East Godavari district, the officials have sounded an alert at V.R. Puram, Chintur, Kunavaram, Yatapaka and other mandals. Tribal people staying in the low-lying areas and in the island villages have been advised to be alert and not to venture into the flood waters on countrymade boats. Road transport has been cut off to about 19 villages from Polavaram as the flood waters are overflowing the causeway at Kothuru village. Communication has been cut off to Kondrukota, Kothuru, Paidipakala, Gaddapalli, Madavapuram, Paidakulamamidi, Sivagiri and other habitations. “Countrymade boats have been arranged at Kothur low-level bridge to shift the villagers in case there is an emergency. Medicines, rice, pulses, kerosene, vegetables, candles and other essential items have been shifted to the flood-hit habitations in advance,” Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana told The Hindu . “If the flood level touches the second warning level (48 feet) at Bhadrachalam, villages located on the Godavari bund may inundate. Officers of various departments pressed into service,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steady-rise-in-the-flood-level-in-the-godavari/article32501040.ece
02 September 2020||Ramesh Susarla,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water released, advisory board meeting yet to convene||Even as early and sufficient rain has brought copious inflows into Tungabhadra and Srisailam Dams and water has been released to some areas in Anantapur district under TB Dam’s High-Level Canal(HLC), officials have not yet convened for the Irrigation Advisory Board(IAB) meeting. As a rule, the meeting is convened every year before the release of water to decide on the quantum of water that needs to be allocated to an area, among other things. Whenever the meeting is organised, it is bound to witness heated debate on HNSS Canal widening work and closure of modernisation works on HLC. In Kurnool district, the IAB meeting was conducted last month during the peak of the pandemic, and allocations under all canals were finalised by Chairman and District Collector G. Veerpandian. In Anantapur district, the first IAB meeting last year was held on August 27 in the presence of the then In-Charge Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, but during the current season, it has not yet been finalised. In 2019, the IAB had decided to supply water to all village tanks, beginning with tail-end areas, for drinking purposes and then release for the agricultural ayacut, both under the High-Level Canal(HLC) of Tungabhadra Dam and HNSS, but it was not followed in letter and spirit. There were several agitations seeking water for the standing crop that was getting withered in some areas. Kadapa MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy and Kamalapuram MLA Pochimareddy Ravindranath Reddy had then expressed discontent over the total stoppage of Tungabhadra water through HLC though they had an allocation of assured water. The In-Charge Minister later held follow-up meetings in Amaravati and pacified leaders from Kadapa and Chittoor. During the recent Agriculture Advisory Board meeting organised last week, a farmer leader had suggested consensus on who gets how much of water at what time and a committee overseeing its proper implementation. While it was said that the IAB meeting would also be held soon, no announcement has been made so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-released-advisory-board-meeting-yet-to-convene/article32500577.ece
02 September 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New body formed to intensify campaign for Rampa district||The elders from different tribal groups, lawyers, intellectuals and teachers have formed a committee to press the demand of creation a new district comprising all tribal mandals in East Godavari Agency, with its the administrative headquarters in Rampachodavaram. A meeting held under the aegis of G. Rama Gopal, president of Akhila Bharata Adivasi Samakhya held here on Tuesday resolved to form mandal-level committees which would create awareness on the demand among the people. Human rights activist Balu Akkisa was elected as the convener of the Rampachodavaram Zilla Sadhana Committee (RZSC) and S. Rathi Reddy as the co-convener. All the participants including former MLA S. Venkateswara Rao, lawyer Chaganti Srinivasa Rao and others said the inclusion of the mandals in East Godavari Agency in the proposed district with its headquarters in Araku would create hurdles for the daily life and administration in East Godavari Agency. The distance of the district headquarters proposed at Araku would also remain a cause of concern for the people here. The existing infrastructure, offices such as ITDA and easy access to Rampachodavaram from Chintoor Agency would add strength to the demand , they said. A few years ago, the State government conducted a consultative meeting, seeking the opinions of tribal residents on the proposals to create a new district from the Araku Parliamentary segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-body-formed-to-intensify-campaign-for-rampa-district/article32501045.ece
02 September 2020||SRIKKAULAM/ongole,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand to scrap CPS gets louder||Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Officers’ Association State associate president Chowdary Purushottam Naidu on Tuesday asked the State government to reveal S.P. Tucker Committee report on the Contributory Pension Scheme. He alleged that the committee had expressed concern over the lack of social security for the employees in the CPS system and recommended restoration of the old pension scheme. The association organised a protest at Potti Sreeramulu junction to mount pressure on the government to scrap the CPS in the State. Speaking on the occasion, leaders of the association said the government appointed the committee two years ago but failed to do justice to the employees who joined the service after 2003. Association leaders Hanumanthu Sairam and R. Venugopal said that many talented persons were not interested in joining the government services due to lack of social security. APTF protest Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation State associate president Sannasetti Rajasekhar said that over 1.86 lakh employees had become victims of the CPS rules and regulations. APTF leaders organised agitation at Srikakulam Collector’s office and raised slogans against the government over delay in restoration of the old pension system. APTF district association president Kaviti Paparao and general secretary T. Chalapati Rao vowed to intensify the struggle to get justice for employees in spite of the COVID-19 threat. In Ongole, members of the Andhra Pradesh Government Employees Association(APGEA) staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Tuesday urging Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to scrap the ‘anti-employee’ Contributory Pension Scheme(CPS). Unmindful of the steady drizzle, the employees led by APGEA Prakasam district president Vinukonda Raja Rao came in a procession to the Collectorate shouting slogans in support of their demand for reverting to the Old Pension Scheme(OPS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-to-scrap-cps-gets-louder/article32500582.ece
02 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gita Parayanam on SVBC from Sept. 10||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) has resolved to live telecast Gita Parayanam from September 10. According to TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, the overwhelming response received for Sundarakanda and Virataparva Parayanam has motivated the management to telecast the programme live from Nadaneerajana Mandapam at Tirumala everyday between 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Sri Venkateswara Bhakthi Channel (SVBC). While eminent scholar Sri Kasipathi will render the recitation of slokas (stanzas), Sri Kuppa Viswanatha Sastry will elucidate the significance and summary of each hymn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gita-parayanam-on-svbc-from-sept-10/article32500583.ece
02 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chakrasnanam remains a low-key ceremony||The auspicious Ananta Padmanabhaswamy Vratam was performed at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala on Tuesday. The vratam remained a low-key affair in view the restrictions imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. On the occasion, Chakrasnanam rituals were performed at the Ranganayakula mandapam inside the temple complex. Priests performed the rituals including abhishekam. They symbolically immersed the Lord Sudarsana in a silver container filled with water amid the chants of panchasuktas in contrast to the standard procedure of performing the rituals at the temple tank after a procession. It may be noted that the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has already decided to organise the annual Brahmotsavam from September 19 to 27, without permitting the devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chakrasnanam-remains-a-low-key-ceremony/article32501046.ece
02 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||I was framed in ESI scam: Atchannaidu||TDP Polit Bureau member and Deputy Floor Leader in the Assembly K. Atchannaidu arrived in Tirupati on Tuesday to a warm reception by the party’s student and youth wing leaders. Mr. Atchannaidu, who was recently granted bail in the case pertaining to the ESI scam, is on a pilgrimage to the Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala. Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation (TNSF) national coordinator A. Ravi Naidu and district president Ragala Anand Goud, who received him at the Garuda Circle in Alipiri, expressed hope that the visit would give him the courage and confidence in him to fight the case “foisted by the ruling party.” Mr. Atchannaidu also accused the government of “framing him” in the case, and said he would fight back with double the vigour. He also charged the ruling party with taking the Backward Classes for a ride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-was-framed-in-esi-scam-atchannaidu/article32500853.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Braving COVID fears, thousands of students appear for JEE exam||Amidst unprecedented precautionary measures, students appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Mains) 2020, that kicked off on Tuesday. Postponed twice due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the National Testing Agency (NTA) finally commenced the JEE Main examination amidst protests over the safety of students. In Andhra Pradesh, a total of 82,748 students are writing the exam at 52 centres in the 13 districts of the State. The last exam is on September 6. Staggered entry and exit of candidates, mandatory use of hand sanitiser at the gates, distribution of masks and maintaining social distancing was implemented at the exam centres. Students seeking seats in top Architecture and Planning colleges wrote the test on Tuesday and from Wednesday, the number of engineering undergraduates aspiring admission into IITs, NITs and other Centrally-funded technical institutes in the country, will increase manifold. In Vijayawada city, the exams are being conducted at five centres — Potti Sriramulu Engineering College, Ion Digital Zone campus in Kandriga and another one on Donka Road in Patamata, NRI College at Agiripally and Usha Rama College of Engineering and Technology at Telaprolu near Vijayawada. “All officials at the exam centres have been asked to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocol. We are giving masks to every student coming to write the exam, besides ensuring use of sanitisers,” said G. Barnabas, Coordinator of the examination for Vijayawada city. Besides facing the twin challenges of the exam pressure and fear of contracting the virus, absence of public transport facility has added to the students’ woes. “With the State Road Transport Corporation buses staying off roads, there was no public transport facility to reach the exam centre. Auto-rickshaw drivers fleeced hapless students,” said Oruganti Kalpana, a student. Students and parents were divided in their opinion on the government’s decision on conducting the exam amidst the pandemic. While a parent said students had worked hard to prepare for these competitive exams and they could lose their momentum due to repeated postponements, another parent pointed to the risk involved in making thousands of students travel from one place to the other and share a common space for hours. “This is exactly the kind of contact the governments have been trying to prevent,” a parent said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/braving-covid-fears-thousands-of-students-appear-for-jee-exam/article32501023.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic yields a windfall for India Post||The coronavirus pandemic, though, have delivered a lethal blow to the economy, it appears to have yielded a windfall for the Andhra Pradesh Circle of the India Post. Data available with the department say that the AP Postal Circle have settled transactions worth of Rs. 445 crore under Aadhaar enabled Payment System (AePS) and Rs. 320 crore under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) during the pandemic thus far. Vast network The AP Circle has leveraged the vast network of more than 10,500 post offices, more than 9,000 postmen and delivery agents to provide essential services to citizens including those in the remotest corners, at their doorsteps. The monthly average of India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) transactions has been put at around 3.5 lakh and this includes withdrawals, debits and AePS. AP Circle Chief Post Master General (CPMG) Col. M. Eleesha says that during this trying time, the department has helped disburse the benefits of many government schemes at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. Doorstep delivery “There has been a huge growth in the AePS transactions—both in volume and amount— during the pandemic, when compared with that of last year. The DBT transactions have also taken a substantial leap,” he says. As many as 90,000 DBT transactions worth Rs. 18 crore of PM Kisan Yojana have been credited into the IPPB accounts payable in AP Circle, he points out. Mr. Eleesha, who earlier served as the Commandant of three commands including Central Base Post Office (CBPO) in Kolkata and Delhi and Army Postal Service, says that the department has helped the beneficiaries including elders withdraw money from the accounts at their doorsteps. The AePS facilitates withdrawal of cash from any scheduled bank through the India Post Payment Bank and ensures timely delivery of medicines at the doorsteps individuals. Pact with TTD The AP Circle has launched many initiatives including signing a business agreement with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) during the pandemic for delivery of Kalyanotsavam prasadam to devotees through speed post. The TTD has launched the online registration of devotees who would like to take part in the Kalyanotsavam rituals in virtual mode. “The devotees are being sent a package of prasadam, kumkum, akshata and etc. through speed post. The online registration was available from August 7 to 31. The Kalyanotsavam will be performed throughout the year. Already, 3,000 prasadam packages have been booked. We are expecting a good revenue,” adds Mr. Eleesha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-yields-a-windfall-for-india-post/article32501048.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government employees demand repeal of CPS||Unions representing government teachers and employees took to the streets on Tuesday demanding that the government rescind the new Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and bring back the old pension scheme. Teacher organisations, under the banner of the A.P. United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) staged Statewide satyagrahas in support of their demand. UTF general secretary P. Babu Reddy said successive governments had been making false promises on the issue. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to revoke CPS within a month of coming to power, but even after 15 months of forming the government, he has not kept his word,” he alleged. Mr. Babu Reddy said that in this time, almost 800 employees had retired and the pension they were drawing was less than the government-sponsored old-age pension. He urged the government to annul its agreement with the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority and bring back the contributory pension amount of 1,88,000 staff worth Rs. 10,900.66 crore invested in the share market and deposit it in their PF accounts.  Leaders of the State APNGOs’ Association staged a protest and threatened to intensify their strike if the government failed to heed their demand. Association leaders Chandrasekhar Reddy, B. Srinivasa Rao and A. Vidyasagar led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-employees-demand-repeal-of-cps/article32500501.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free power scheme to be implemented from next fiscal||The State Government will directly transfer money for payment of electricity bills to every agricultural power consumer covered under the Agriculture-Electricity Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme from the 2021-22 financial year. Energy Secretary N. Srikant issued the guidelines for the free power scheme on Tuesday. One aim of the scheme is to let the beneficiary know how much power is being consumed and how much money the government is paying. The amount received by the beneficiaries in their bank accounts should be paid to the electricity department. The G.O. says farmers need not spend their own money while paying power bills as the total amount would be borne by the government. As per the scheme, ‘smart meters’ will be installed for agricultural connections wherever possible, and IRDA meters will be installed everywhere else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-power-scheme-to-be-implemented-from-next-fiscal/article32501026.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LIC staff oppose disinvestment move||In response to a call given by the All India Insurance Employees Association, a delegation of the leaders of Insurance Corporation Employees Union, Machilipatnam Division, met Lok Sabha MP from Vijayawada, Kesineni Srinvas (Nani) on Tuesday at his residence and made known their resentment against the government’s move regarding disinvestment in the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) After submitting a memorandum to the MP, the union’s joint secretary Ch. Kaladhar said that LIC was established in 1956 and it was given an initial capital of Rs. 5 crore by the Centre, after which the Corporation had never asked for any financial help. Instead, it had been paying a dividend of Rs. 26,000 crore to the Central Government for the last 64 years. Speaking further on the LIC’s achievements, he said the Corporation had assets worth Rs. 32,00,000 crore, its claim settlement ratio was 99.5%, and it had a market share of more than 75% and it had been funding lakhs of crores to the Central government’s Five Year Plans, and schemes like sewerage, drinking and irrigation water projects and contributing towards improved supply of electricity, roads and other infrastructure facilities. Mr. Kaladhar argued that it was not appropriate to disinvest in LIC, which was among the best financial conglomerates in the country. The MP responded positively to their grievance and said that he would take it up at an appropriate platform. Union vice-president Prasad, assistant treasurer Madhu, branch secretary G. Srinivas and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lic-staff-oppose-disinvestment-move/article32501024.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get cracking on SDCs: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to expedite the work on setting up of 30 Skill Development Centres (SDCs), covering all Parliamentary constituencies in the State, and ensure quality in the construction works. At a review meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said the SDCs would play an important role in providing high quality skilled workforce and contribute towards development of the industry. The officials informed him that land had been identified for setting up of the proposed skill colleges at 20 places and that search for suitable land was on for the remaining colleges. They said a curriculum of 160 courses have been designed and they was divided into categories of ‘finishing skills’ and ‘alternative employment courses’. Of them, 127 were grouped as ‘Finishing skills’ and the remaining 35 as ‘Alternative employment’ courses. To impart these courses, the government has partnered with four international institutes — Singapore Polytechnic, Van Hall Larenstein (University of Applied Studies), GIZ and Department for International Development. The State officials are also in talks with companies like Dell, Tata, HP, IBM, Biocon and 35 other firms for an MoU to set up the lab infrastructure at the skill centers. Linking Mr. Jagan wanted the linking of these skill development centres with top companies in the industry to be a continuous process and asked the officials to ensure that the training programmes were designed based on the requirements of the industry. Asking them to speed up the exercise of identifying the lands for construction of the remaining colleges, he also wanted them to include technical courses related to agriculture besides imparting training to youth in high-end construction projects. Minister for Skill Development M. Gautham Reddy, Special CS G. Anantharamu, APPSC Managing Director Arja Srikanth, APSSDC Chairman Ch. Madhusudhan Reddy participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/get-cracking-on-sdcs-jagan/article32501034.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. hires ambulances to ferry COVID patients||The State government has hired over 1,350 ambulances to transport COVID-19 patients from one hospital to another, or from their homes to hospitals or COVID care centres. The mandate “These ambulances will help in the implementation of the referral system, under which the hospitals referring the patients have to arrange for an ambulance to transport them, apart from informing the receiving hospitals,” said Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare K. Bhaskar. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Mr. Bhaskar said, to ensure smooth functioning, a call centre had been set up in every mandal. “The local health workers, doctors and hospitals have been given the call centre numbers, using which they can call an ambulance,” Mr. Bhaskar stated. “Each mandal has a ‘108’ ambulance, but due to increase in the work load, the districts have been instructed to hire at least two additional ambulances per mandal exclusively for transporting the COVID non-critical patients,” Mr. Bhaskar said. ‘No upper limit’ “While the minimum number of ambulances is two per mandal, there is no upper limit. Districts have been given the right to hire as many as they need,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-govt-hires-ambulances-to-ferry-covid-patients/article32500901.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan’s pat for Janasainiks||JSP chief Pawan Kalyan lauded his fans and party members for celebrating his birthday by helping the needy. In a release ahead of his birthday (September 2), he referred to JSP activists donating 341 oxygen cylinders to COVID hospitals in State on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawans-pat-for-janasainiks/article32501031.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police serve notices on Naidu, Lokesh and Varla||The Chittoor police served notices on Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu, former Minister Nara Lokesh and Telugu Desam Party leader Varla Ramaiah asking them to give information on the suspicious death of Om Pratap, who died a few days ago. Madanapalle Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Ravi Manohara Chary served notices on Mr. Naidu, his son and Mr. Ramaiah, under Section 91 of Cr.P.C., on Tuesday. The trio were asked to submit the information or documents, if any, related to the mysterious death of Pratap, to the DSP’s office in person or in any way in a week, Mr. Chary said. A native of Bandakadapalli hamlet in Kandukuru village in the limits of Madanapalle police sub-division, Om Pratap, allegedly committed suicide on August 28. Alleging that the police were trying to hush up the suspicious death of the youth, Mr. Naidu appealed to Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang to check the call data of the victim and book the culprits, irrespective of their status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-serve-notices-on-naidu-lokesh-and-varla/article32500615.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garment trader dead||Noted garment trader Bommana Rajkumar died of illness on Tuesday. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Rajkumar owned a chain of garment and jewellery outlets in the name of ‘Bommana Clothstores’ in Rajamahendravaram and other cities. He unsuccessfully contested in Assembly elections and was working with the YSRCP. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy condoled the demise of Rajkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garment-trader-dead/article32501041.ece
02 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dak Adalat on September 9||To settle public complaints on postal services, the Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level Dak Adalat of Vijayawada region comprising Krishna, Guntur, West Godavari, Nellore and Prakasam districts on September 9 (Wednesday). The Dak Adalat will be held at 11 a.m. at the office of Postmaster General at Gandhinagar. According to a statement issued by the department, only specific personal and individual grievances relating to postal services will be heard at the adalat and general policy matters will not be considered. The complaints and grievances may be sent in postal envelop/cover superscribed with the words ‘Dak Adalat’ addressed to T.V. Raghavulu, Assistant Director (Staff), office of Postmaster General, Vijayawada Region, by September 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dak-adalat-on-september-9/article32501025.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 1,025 new cases, tally mounts to 38,131 in district||With as many as 1,025 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, the district’s cumulative tally increased to 38,131. For the third time in the last one week, the district has reported more than 1,000 cases in a day. The district also saw seven more persons succumbing to the coronavirus, taking the death toll to 265. As many as 987 persons have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, the health officials said. 31,324 discharged According to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the district is 6,542 and 31,324 persons are discharged. In August, 25,929 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district. The month also saw 167 people die due to the virus. Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V Sudhakar said that among the 738 clusters in the district, 49 are very active, 60 active and 629 clusters are dormant. Already 171 clusters were denotified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-1025-new-cases-tally-mounts-to-38131-in-district/article32501055.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Armed militia commander arrested at G. Madugula||The Rural Police arrested a 28-year-old armed militia commander of the banned CPI (Maoist) in G. Madugula mandal on Monday. The arrested, identified as Korra Malleswara Rao alias Kusunu alias Mallesh, is a resident of Nanubari in Pedabayalu mandal. According to police, Malleswara Rao was allegedly involved in planting landmines at Kondrum in Pedabayalu mandal, which went off on August 2, killing two tribals from Chintalaveedhi. The landmines were laid to target the security forces. Police said Malleswara Rao joined the Maoists as a militia member in 2012. He was allegedly involved in the murders of Korra Ranga Rao at Chitraiputtu in Pedabayalu mandal, K. Surya and M. Kishore at Maddigaru in G. Madugula and K. Sathi Babu at Bongajangi. Malleswara Rao is also said to be a close acquaintance of Maoist leader Chikkudu Chinnarao alias Sudheer, Divisional Commander, police said. He also allegedly threatened many government officials and forced tribal villagers to attend the Maoist meetings. He allegedly would collect information about the target persons and pass on the same to the Maoists, the police said. Malleswara Rao allegedly provided food and shelter to Maoists and dealt with ganja with the support of Vanthala Prabhakar alias Ashok, the police said. G. Madugula Circle Inspector G.D. Babu appealed to the Maoist militias to surrender. “They will receive rehabilitation benefits as per the norms, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/armed-militia-commander-arrested-at-g-madugula/article32501050.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revoke G.O. allocating land for guest house: HRF||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) demanded that the G.O. RT. No. 1353 issued on August 27, 2020, by the State government allotting 30 acres at Kapulauppada village in Bheemunipatnam mandal for construction of a State Guest House be immediately revoked. This is because the G.O. is in violation of the AP Ancient and Historical Monuments, Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960. HRF members felt that the allotted area is part of the ancient Thotlakonda and Bavikonda Buddhist complex. Any such construction risks damaging the 2,000-year-old heritage site and will also pose a clear threat to other, as-yet-unexplored archaeological remains from the Buddhist era. Revenue officials, senior bureaucrats and a Minister are saying that the proposed guest house poses no threat to the Buddhist site since there is a distance of 1 km. What they all wilfully elide is the fact that the site proposed for the construction falls within the survey area that is expressly protected by the 1960 Act. In fact, it is contained in Survey No 314 (Old) of Kapulauppada village and was so notified vide GO No 627 dated May 2, 1978. It is part of a total extent of 3,300 acres contained on several hills in the area, said V.S. Krishna, HRF AP&TS coordination committee member. He further added that the AP High Court has also issued directions to the government in an order dated 29-11-2016 in WP No 173/2016 that no construction activity is to be taken up within S.No 314 (Old). ‘Archaeological vandalism’ HRF believes that any manner of construction within this notified site amounts to archaeological vandalism, said K. Sudha, HRF AP State general secretary). “Archaeological sites and artefacts are part of our shared past and collective historical heritage and our legacy for future generations. Effacing them deprives us of a clear understanding of our history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revoke-go-allocating-land-for-guest-house-hrf/article32500585.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vacancies will be filled in VIMS: Vijaya Sai||YSRC Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy inspected Visakha Institute of Medical Services (VIMS), the State COVID-19 hospital, here on Tuesday. Speaking to the media, the MP said that following instructions from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he inspected COVID-19 wards of 305 bed-VIMS. He said that the patients expressed satisfaction over the treatment being given and food being provided over there. He said that VIMS has been using high-end equipment and also appreciated work of the doctors and staff. Admitting that there is a shortage of nurses and doctors, the MP said that the vacancies will be filled very soon. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, VIMS Director K. Satya Varaprasad and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vacancies-will-be-filled-in-vims-vijaya-sai/article32501056.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU seeks withdrawal of circular on premature retirement||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has demanded withdrawal of the circular, issued by the Central government, which is intended to terminate the services of employees, who complete 30 years of service or 55 years of age, based on their performance. Their performance would be reviewed once in three months and a decision taken whether to continue or do away with the services of such employees. The circular was sent to the Divisional Heads of all Central government offices. The circular was issued on the basis of Fundamental Rule 56(J) (I), Rule 48(1) (B) of CCS (Pension) Rules, of 1972, which provides for retirement of of an employee on completion of 30 years of service or 50/55 of age, based on their performance, CITU general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu, president R.K.S.V. Kumar told the media on Tuesday. The CITU leaders alleged that the objective of the Union government was to prevent trade unions and trade union leaders from raising their voice against the ‘anti-worker’ policies of the government and the managements. The BJP government has already withdrawn several rights of the workers by amending labour laws, they said. Lakhs of posts were already vacant in the Central government offices and PSUs and they were not being filled, they said. Citing examples, they said that the staff strength in the railways was reduced from 18 to 13 lakh, in BHEL from 60,000 to 40,000 and in coal mines from 7 to 5 lakh. The new rule provides for further reduction of staff and thereby weaken the public sector. They dubbed the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ as ‘Atma Samarpan Bharat’ as the railways were being put up for sale. An IPO would be issued to privatise the profit-making LIC, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-seeks-withdrawal-of-circular-on-premature-retirement/article32500575.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cultural bonding encompasses the beauty of sharing’||‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’ is a platform to unite States/UT to enrich the exchange of culture, said D. Murali Mohan, Additional Director General, Regional Outreach Bureau(ROB), Andhra Pradesh. Speaking at a national webinar organised jointly by ROB, Vijayawada, and Regional News Unit(RNU), Visakhapatnam, on Tuesday, he said that cultural bonding encompasses the beauty of sharing. Gurudwara president D.S. Anand said that unity in diversity is the essence of our nation and generations of their family were settled in Visakhapatnam for the last 50 years and adapted to the beauty of the city and its peace-loving people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cultural-bonding-encompasses-the-beauty-of-sharing/article32501051.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online yoga, meditation classes from September 7||The Department of Youth Services is organising a three-month free yoga, meditation classes through online/virtual conference from September 7 for interested candidates between the age of 15 and 35 years. CEO, SETVIS, Visakhapatnam, B Srinivasa Rao, said that the programme was scheduled to start from September 2, but has been postponed to September 7. The programme would be conducted from Monday to Friday from 6 a.m. to 7.15 a.m. Interested candidates can send their names, e-mail address and whatsApp number tosetvisceo@gmail.comor to number 9849913079/9491553607 before September 5. After sending the details, candidates need to register themselves inwww.tiny.cc/yuvayogaweblink, the official said. After completion of the training, the candidates will also be given a certificate. For more details, interested can contact 0891-2558291.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-yoga-meditation-classes-from-september-7/article32501052.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SFI demands fee waiver by colleges||The Greater Visakha City Committee of Students Federation of India(SFI) has demanded stringent action against colleges, which were collecting fees in the name of online classes, taking advantage of the pandemic. The federation’s city president K. Prabhudas and secretary L.J. Naidu alleged that affiliated colleges of Andhra University were sending SMSs to students of second and third-year degree to pay their fee online by September 25. Action demanded Demanding action against such colleges, the activists said that the fee should be waived in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation and financial crisis of parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sfi-demands-fee-waiver-by-colleges/article32500576.ece
02 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weed oil worth Rs. 1.5 lakh recovered||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted a raid and recovered 895 grams weed oil (Hashish oil) worth Rs. 1.5 lakh, at Pendurthi Junction, here on Tuesday. However the accused fled from the spot. Based on credible information, the CTF team conducted the raid. According to the police, the accused dropped some of his belongings, including photocopy of aadhaar card, while fleeing from the spot. The case has been handed over to Pendurthi police for further action. In another case, a CTF team conducted raid at HB Colony area and arrested six persons on the charge of gambling. Police seized Rs. 14,640 from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weed-oil-worth-rs-15-lakh-recovered/article32501057.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surge shows no signs of abatement||The State has for the seventh consecutive day reported more than 10,000 COVID-19 infections during the past 24 hours as of Tuesday morning. The death toll has crossed the 4,000-mark as 84 new cases were reported in the past day. The death rate continues to stay at 0.91% as the toll reached 4,054. The overall infection tally went up to 4,45,139 with the addition of new 10,368 cases. Also, during the past day, 9,350 patients have recovered and the total recoveries stand at 3,39,876 which is 76.35% of the total cases. The active cases now stand at 1,09,210. In the past week, 73,500 new cases were recorded at an average of 10,500 cases per day. During the week, 4.25 lakh samples were tested including the 59,834 tests in the past day. So far, 37.82 lakh samples were tested and their positivity rate is at 11.77%. The tests per million ratio has increased to 70,837 and so far 7.08% of the State’s population were tested. East Godavari has again reported the highest single-day tally of 1,208 cases and 10 deaths. It is followed by Chittoor with 1,068 cases and 14 deaths and Nellore with 1,059 cases and six deaths. New cases and deaths in other districts are as follows: Kadapa (994 cases and 5 deaths), West Godavari (948 and 11), Prakasam (888 and 3), Visakhapatnam (825 and 7), Kurnool (813 and 4), Srikakulam (629 and 4), Guntur (617 and 7), Vizianagaram (552 and 2), Anantapur (456 and 7) and Krishna (311 and 4). The infections tally of East Godavari has crossed the 60,000-mark and reached 60,611. Next to it is Kurnool with 45,558 cases and Anantapur with 41,584 cases. The rest of the districts have less than 40,000 cases and Krishna has the least number of cases and is also the only district with less than 20,000 cases. The tallies of other districts are: West Godavari (38,054), Chittoor (37,717), Visakhapatnam (37,519), Guntur (36,378), Nellore (31,739), Kadapa (27,113), Srikakulam (24,707), Prakasam (23,718), Vizianagaram (20,951) and Krishna (16,595). West Godavari's recovery rate is highest at 88 % and in Prakasam, it is lowest at 54%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surge-shows-no-signs-of-abatement/article32501030.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Packing a glorious punch||From practising in the ring, bringing laurels to the country in many national and international events to grooming budding talent, Nagisetty Usha has come a long way. She took penchant in boxing seeing her father N.V. Ramana, a boxer of national repute, in the ring and it soon became her passion. And she never looked back. Ms. Usha, who took professional boxing as a career at the age of 16, received the prestigious Dhyan Chand award this year in the lifetime achievement in sports and games category. She earned the distinction of the first women to receive the award in the boxing category and the first sportsperson from the State to achieve the feat. Feathers in the cap Born, brought up and trained in the city, the 36-year-old pugilist, started her journey to success in 2001 after Dronacharya awardee coach I. Venkateswara Rao spotted her natural Between 2004 and 2010, she won six national gold medals in the featherweight category. In 2006 and 2008, she bagged silver medals at the World Championships and a gold medal in the Asian championship. She also won a gold in the Indo-Euro invitation cup held in Denmark in 2009. “I was motivated by Mary Kom and Laila Ali, daughter of global icon Mohammed Ali. Receiving this prestigious award is an achievement. But, I owe it to my father who introduced me to the sport. I thank all my coaches and my employers at East Coast Railway for the love and support they have showered on me,” says Ms. Usha. Her biggest setback came when she missed the Olympics in 2012 due to knee and neck injuries. Ms. Usha joined the Indian Railway in 2008 and was posted in Diesel Loco Shed of the East Coast Railway, Waltair Division. She bid goodbye to ring as a player, but the passion for the sport prompted her to pursue coaching as a career. She became a coach after finishing her training at National Institute of Sports (NIS) in 2013. Since then, Ms. Usha has been training the national women’s team and the railway women’s team. “Though not far away from the ring, it is a different journey. Being a coach, I have more responsibility now. I want to see at least one girl trained by me win a medal in the Olympics, which I missed it owing to my injuries. It is my dream now and I am not going to give up on it,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/packing-a-glorious-punch/article32501036.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lighting up the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lighting-up-the-sky/article32501059.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nourishing minds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nourishing-minds/article32500590.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals decry arrest of villagers||Tribal people of the Andhra-Odisha Border area took out a rally, demanding release of the tribals in the police custody, at a remote village of Injari panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal on Tuesday. They said it was wrong on the part of the police to brand them as Maoists and arrest them. They demanded that the police raids on their villages be stopped. They sought unconditional release of Sinderi, Appa Rao, Korra, Malleswara Rao, Gaduturu and Ramachandra Padal, who are in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-decry-arrest-of-villagers/article32501042.ece
02 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Godavari set to cross danger mark||Aided by heavy inflows from the upstream areas, the water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam suddenly increased from 22 feet on Monday morning to 38.90 feet at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, triggering a fresh flood threat to the riverside areas in the district. With the Godavari and its tributaries in spate owing to heavy rains in the upper reaches, the authorities have activated the emergency response teams to face any emergency situation, sources said. The Godavari is likely to cross the first and second flood warning levels of 43 feet and 48 feet and touch the danger mark of 53 feet at Bhadrachalam in the next 24 hours, official sources said quoting the weather forecast. Collector M V Reddy has asked the mandal and divisional level officials of the seven mandals located on the left and right banks of the Godavari to remain alert to deal with any flood exigency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/godavari-set-to-cross-danger-mark/article32500895.ece
02 September 2020||HTDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro to resume in graded way from Sept. 7||Telangana government issued orders on Tuesday, permitting Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) to commence operations from September 7 in a graded manner. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders to this effect generally following the ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday. Metro Rail services throughout the country were suspended following the nationwide lockdown declared in March 22 to contain spread of COVID-19. It means commercial operations will start after a gap of more than five months. HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy confirming the news said metro rail chiefs across the country discussed the safety protocols to be followed and these will be announced soon. He is already on record that all the systems are being maintained in top condition to commence operations at a short notice. Metro Rail authorities said that enough care will be taken to ensure the AC filters are more efficient and that regular sanitation is maintained. Social distancing will be strictly enforced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-to-resume-in-graded-way-from-sept-7/article32500867.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC adjourns RLIS petition hearing||The Telangana High Court on Tuesday adjourned hearing of the writ petition on Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme of Andhra Pradesh government till adjudication of related petitions by the Supreme Court. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said it cannot hear the petition since similar matter was pending before the Supreme Court. The crucial points like whether the RLIS was an old one, a new project and if it had environmental clearances had to be finalised by the Supreme Court, the bench said. Hearing the writ petition filed by Congress leader Vamshicahnd Reddy seeking direction to halt RLIS works, the bench observed that it cannot hear the petition since the National Green Tribunal was already seized of the matter. If a matter pending before the NGT for disposal is taken up for hearing by Telangana HC, it would amount to obstructing judicial process, it said. Referring to the petitioner’s contentions that AP government was violating NGT orders, the bench said the petitioner should take the matter to the notice of NGT. As per the NGT Act, one can approach the SC for an appeal within 90 days of NGT passing an order. Additional Advocate General J. Ramchander Rao told the bench that AP government had contended before the NGT that the latter had no power to hear the matters as per AP Reorganisation Act. Mr. Rao said Telangana HC can hear the matter since the AP government, not paying heed to the direction of Krishna River Board,invited tenders to execute RLIS project. When the bench sought to know who moved the SC on RLIS, AP Advocate General Sriram said that Telangana government filed Special Leave Petition in the apex court first. After hearing contentions of all, the bench said it cannot hear the petition till the apex court takes a call on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-adjourns-rlis-petition-hearing/article32500897.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Spirit of revelry is missing||It was a surge of humanity in Hyderabad as worshippers marked the end of 11-day Ganesh festival with day-long ceremonial immersions at various lakes and tanks in the city. Unmindful of the announcements by organisers and police to maintain social distancing and wear marks in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, worshippers jostled to get a close look and pray for the last time before the immersion of idols. The nine-foot-high Khairatabad Ganesh, which was the tallest this year in the city, had the longest procession. The procession from the Khairatabad site began at 11 a.m. and the immersion in the Hussainsagar lake was completed at 6.30 p.m. The evening immersion is a break from tradition over the past few years where the idol was among the first to be immersed by noon. Densely packed While the immediate vicinity of the idol was crowded, the stretch of road between the Lumbini Park and cranes 3 and 4 near NTR Park remained free. The same could not be said about the Tank Bund stretch which was densely packed as worshippers from across the city brought idols on SUVs, cars, open top vehicles and motorised trolleys to the location. Except for a few stretches around the Hussainsagar lake, the flow of traffic in the city was not affected through the day as a strong contingent of policemen ensured smooth conduct, putting up and removing barricades as per need. The spirited nimmajjanam revelry that waxes and wanes from morning to night was missing this year as there were no kiosks to host the processionists. Limiting the size of the idols, curbs on installations, and a general fear among people took away some of the festive pageantry associated with the event. “We have seen an occasional procession unlike a stream of idols that used to be ferried every year to the lake,” said a police official stationed at Masab Tank. Auction called off The auction of laddoo by Balapur Ganesh Utsav Committee was called off. “We have decided to gift the laddoo to the Chief Minister as there was no auction. If the CM gives us an appointment we will gift it to him,” said K. Niranjan Reddy of Balapur committee about the 21-kg laddoo. Police said about 4,800 idols were immersed in city till midnight. Last year, it was 30,000 idols in 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spirit-of-revelry-is-missing/article32500879.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS govt. comes out with a new LRS||Another Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) has been unveiled with the government coming out with a ‘Telangana Regularization of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2020’ applicable for the entire State — both urban and rural areas on Tuesday. The rules will be applicable for all existing unapproved sub-division of plots, existing unapproved layouts or ventures where plots have been sold through a registered sale deed and unauthorised layouts developed provided, at least 10% of plots are sold through the registered deed on or before August 26 this year. No illegal/ unauthorized plots will be permitted after the cut-off date. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued the orders stating there were many unapproved and illegal layouts putting extra pressure on the local bodies due to infrastructure deficiencies. The government has already decided not to allow registration of plots of such unapproved or illegal layouts. Applicants can file for regularisation online directly or at a Meeseva centre or a citizen service centre by October 15 with individual plot owners having to pay Rs. 1,000 while layout developers should pay Rs. 10,000 through any online payment mode. A self-attested copy of first page of the registered sale deed/title deed, in case of unsold plots and the layout owner shall file copies of sale deeds of at least 10% of total plots. The municipal or any other competent body concerned can seek any other document once an intimation is received following initial registration under the scheme. Application for regularization of unapproved layout and subdivision of plots can also be made by a society/association/colony developer representing the plot owners in an unapproved layout. If the application is of a site that is contrary to the land use stipulated in the statutory plan, necessary conversion charges will be levied. If 10% open space is not available in the un-approved layout pro-rata open space charges @ 14% of the plot value prevailing as on August 26 along with conversion charges which have to be remitted within three months of intimation and latest by January 31, 2021, whichever is earlier, either in instalments or in one go within this time period, failing which regularization of plot will not be considered and will be treated as unauthorized. No relaxation of time shall be granted. Mandatory norms Road width should be a minimum of nine metres. In case of weaker section layouts or plots less than 100 sq metres, the road width may be six metres. In case required road width is not available, required depth for widening equal on both sides will be insisted and water bodies will be preserved in the layout. The regularization measure is not applicable for plots or layouts from the application of land ceiling laws, land disputes or claims over title, boundary disputes, etc. In respect of assigned lands, prior clearance from the district collector will have to be obtained. Even if only a few plot holders come forward for regularisation in an unapproved layout, the layout pattern approved by the competent authority — municipal authorities and additional collectors of local bodies for gram panchayats — will be applicable to the entire layout. The applicant should furnish copies of the sale deed/ title deed only. Agreement of sale or the general power of attorney not be considered as evidence. No layout/development will be allowed in the bed of any kind of water bodies and in the full tank level (FTL) of any lake, pond, ‘kunta’ and in ‘shikam’ lands. Water bodies and courses will be maintained as recreational/green buffer zone, and no layout development activity other than recreational will be permitted within: 30 metres from the boundary of river course/ lakes of area of 10 hectares and above; 9 metres from the boundary of lakes / ‘kuntas/shikam’ lands of area less than10 hectares; 9 metres from the boundaries of canal, ‘vagu’, etc., and two metres from the defined boundary of the ‘nala’ or storm water drain. For layout development activity within the restricted zone near the airport or within 500 metres distance from the boundary of defence areas/ military establishments, necessary clearance from the Airport Authority/ Defence Authority concerned has to be obtained. For areas covered under G.O.Ms.No.111 — protection of catchment area of Osmansagar and Himayatsagar lakes — apart from the provisions of statutory Master Plan of HMDA/ HADA, the restrictions on layout and development activity imposed will be applicable. Approvals will not be given in sites earmarked for industrial/manufacturing use zone and earmarked open spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-govt-comes-out-with-a-new-lrs/article32500888.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID curve defies GHMC forecast||For months together, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region has been recording the maximum COVID-19 cases in the State. At one point in July, over 1,500 cases were being detected in the municipal corporation limits on a daily basis. When senior Health officials, on August 8, announced their forecast that the number of cases in GHMC limits will drop to a minimum by August-end, it evoked hope as well as curiosity. Many questioned the basis of such a prophecy. Now, skim through the numbers in daily media bulletins and you will see the forecast clearly went wrong. Though the number of cases has dipped in GHMC region, it is not ‘minimal’ in the true sense of the term. In the last week of August, 300-550 cases were detected per day in the region. ‘Numbers may be more’ While over 1.27 lakh cases have been recorded in the State so far, sources in the Health department say the figures could actually be higher. “The number of cases are bound to come down at some point or the other because the chain of transmission is shortening. A lot of people who are asymptomatic could have recovered without even knowing they had COVID-19 and they might not have undergone any tests for coronavirus. If details of such asymptomatic patients make their way to official statistics, the numbers will definitely be more than what is being recorded,” a source said. Senior officials in the department agreed. “There will be many asymptomatic patients who did not undergo tests. So, the extent of infection is much larger than we know,” said an official seeking anonymity. In a joint study conducted by researchers of Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology and Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, it was found that approximately 6 lakh out of Hyderabad’s crore-plus population may have been infected. The study was conducted by collecting sewage samples from all major sewage treatment plants from July 7 to August 8, to estimate the number of citizens infected. Even if the prevalence decreases, experts have been predicting a second wave of the infection. Asked about this, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, on August 25, had said that there could be a second wave if there is negligence in taking containment measures or if people do not maintain precautions. “Till date, no country has reported a second wave of the infections as severe are the ongoing cases,” said a senior Health official who did not wish to be quoted. If there were to be huge congregations of any nature, the chance for it to turn into a super spreader event cannot be ruled out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-curve-defies-ghmc-forecast/article32500864.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Runners Evening held||Hyderabad Runners, a non-profit organisation, founded in 2007, which aims to promote running as most preferred form of fitness activity, organised its yearly “Runners Evening” where the achievements of runners were celebrated, and where they were given awards for the same. However, due to the COVID-19 restrictions in place, the event was held online this year. The awardees and their families, numbering over 200, joined the meeting from the comfort of their homes. Thirty-one categories of awards were presented on the occasion – right from – best running group, best runner family, best upcoming runner – male and female - to - best trainer – male and female. "We did not want our members to feel their achievements in the running arena would go unnoticed for this year, hence we decided to adapt to the new normal and recognise them this way." said Dr. Muralidhar Nannapaneni, president of Hyderabad Runners. Teacher’s Day special Meanwhile, Hyderabad Runners as part of their weekly ‘Beyond the track’ webinar series, is organising a lecture by Siddhartha Menon, educationist, poet, and a famed runner. He will speak on ‘Once a runner: identity and education’ on September 5 (Saturday) at 7.30 p.m. on the Facebook page of Hyderabad Runners. Recently, the runners organised a panel discussion by some key players who organise some of the best marathons and ultra runs in India, and are runners themselves. The panellists deliberated on the impact that the pandemic was having on the events and runners. The panellists of ‘Who moved my run?’ were Kavitha Kanaparthi, founder and head, Globeracers, Kevin Pereira, senior vice-president, Business and Running Development Procam International, and Ramesh Kanjilimadhom, founder, Soles of Cochin. Prashant Morparia, Race Director of Airtel Hyderabad Marathon, moderated the discussion. Those interested can login to the Facebook page of Hyderabad Runners to see the recorded version of the webinars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/runners-evening-held/article32500873.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS logs 2,734 new COVID cases||After a drop in COVID-19 cases following low testing on Sunday, a spike was observed in Telangana the very next day. As against 1,873 cases recorded on Sunday, 2,734 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. The death toll reached 836 with nine more fatalities. The number of tests would explain the surge — 37,791 tests were performed on August 30, and 58,264 on August 31. The highest of 347 cases were logged in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region. Ten districts recorded more than 100 cases on Monday — Rangareddy (212), Nalgonda (191), Khammam (161), Medchal-Malkajgiri (121), Bhadradri-Kothagudem (117), Nizamabad (114), Warangal Urban (112), Siddipet (109), Suryapet (107) and Karimnagar (106). Of the 58,264 people tested on Monday, 45% were primary contacts and 14% secondary contacts. This category is being mentioned in daily bulletins from August 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-logs-2734-new-covid-cases/article32500859.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engg. graduates now don khaki||In a significant shift, the 2018 batch of Indian Police Service probationers is dominated by tech-savvy candidates as 76 of the 131 are from different disciplines of engineering studies. They will be graduating from the Sardar Vallabhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad on Friday. The batch which includes 28 women, has four medicos, while 27 persons hold a degree in Arts, 13 are from science background and three graduated in Law. Bala Swamy, a probationer from Telangana, who is allotted home cadre, holds PhD in Mathematics. Three others, Rupesh Chennuri, B. Rohit Raju and Harshvardhan, who also hail from Telangana also are allotted home cadre. There are a total of 13 IPS probationers from both the Telugu States. Speaking to The Hindu , Atul Karwal, director of the country’s premier police school said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to address the young officers virtually from New Delhi, after the Dikshanth Parade, the culmination of rigorous training for nearly two years. “Schedule of Mr. Modi is yet to be confirmed in light of the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee,” he said. Live-streaming The Parade, which was usually opened to parents, friends, relatives, fiancés and fiancées of probationers, is now a closed-door affair due to COVID-19 pandemic. Arrangements have been made to live stream the passing out parade on Doordarshan. “We are not inviting outsiders to witness the parade, as they can enter the campus only after mandatory two weeks quarantine,” the 1988 batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre said. Fifteen probationers from Nepal, Royal Bhutan and Maldives will not participate in the parade this year due to international travel restrictions. The batch is unique in the sense that the probationers had got the rare opportunity of understanding policing and mindset of common citizens during COVID-19 lockdown when they were attached to their cadres for mandatory District Practical Training for six months, the officials said. They said that the cadets have been trained on the challenges of cybercrime and other aspects of policing during the two-year long training, which comprises 42 weeks of basic training followed by district practical training in respective cadres for 28 weeks and 13 weeks phase-II training at the academy. Above all, the Telangana State seems to be the biggest gainers of new recruits as 11 probationers (four from 2017 and seven from 2018 batch), including two women, would join the rank. Telangana having 33 administrative districts has necessitated such a huge contingent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engg-graduates-now-don-khaki/article32500902.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Former bank manager, legal adviser held||The Central Crime Station of the Hyderabad Police on Tuesday announced the apprehension of two persons, including a former senior employee of a bank, for allegedly cheating the same bank and sanctioning a loan of Rs. 1.8 crore after allegedly accepting falsified documents. According to the police, the accused are Rudra Shankar Mohapatra, then chief manager of Bank of Maharashtra, and V Narsingh Rao, a legal adviser. Police said G. Niranjan allegedly colluded with Satish Kolluru, Vodde Krishna, Vodde Laxminarayana and Vodde Prabhakar to prepare the fake documents. ‘Deliberate act’ Police said that Niranjan applied for a Cash Credit Loan offered by the Bank of Maharashtra by producing questionable documents. Rudra Shankar Mohapatra, who was chief manager then, allegedly sanctioned the loan. This was done allegedly based on a report of V Narsingh Rao. Police said that after investigation it was found that he had done so deliberately. On Monday, Rudra Shankar Mohapatra and V Narsingh Rao were produced before a local court for judicial remand. Police said G. Niranjan, Vodde Krishna, Vodde Laxminarayana and Vodde Prabhakar were already arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-bank-manager-legal-adviser-held/article32500869.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Laundry operators stage protest||Railway Boot Laundry Operators Association on Tuesday protested before the South Central Railway (SCR) headquarters of Rail Nilayam, seeking immediate payment of pending arrears for the last few months. The association, representing about 25 contractors and owners of mechanised BOOT - build, operate, own & transfer laundries, provides bedroll linen services across the network of Indian Railways. There are five units in the zone — Kachiguda, Tirupati,  Kakinada, Vijayawada and Nanded — with 10-15 years’ contract duration. "These laundries are highly capital intensive, and have been set up with huge capital costs, and the machinery and assets have to be maintained even during non-operational times," said president V. Sridhar. Due to COVID-19, linen/bedroll services on trains had been suspended indefinitely since March 21 and though partial train services were restored from May 11 and about 230 passenger trains are running from June 1, bedroll/linen was not being provided to passengers in AC compartments, he said. The association claimed that as per the contract, the railways had to pay for minimum threshold load irrespective of linen used. The Railway Board too had issued instructions last month to make payments as per contract conditions yet various representations made to the General Manager, chief mechanical engineer and other had not elicited any response. "There are about 1,000 employees, workers and vendors in the zone, facing hardships as no salaries have been paid for the last five months .So we resorted to this peaceful protest of not more than 20 people in view of COVID-19 to highlight our plight," said general secretary T. Anthony and vice-president Arif Kalappadam of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/laundry-operators-stage-protest/article32500871.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||49% of State’s cases detected in August||It has been six months since the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana on March 2. A total of 14.23 lakh tests have been performed and 1,27,697 cases recorded in this duration. Of those 1.27 lakh cases, a staggering 62,911 positives were recorded in August alone, which makes for 49.2% of the tally. The major chunk of tests — 14,23,846 or 67.8% of the total tests, to be precise, were conducted last month. The results showed 69% were asymptomatic and 31% symptomatic. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the State government has been heavily criticised for low testing in the State. It was scaled up from June 15, and thus, more cases began to be identifies, leading to a sharp increase in the total. The surge was also attributed to relaxations in lockdown norms, leading to increased movement of people. While RT-PCR tests were increased from June 15, Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) were employed from July 8. By the end of June, a maximum of 4,000 tests a day were being performed. The numbers continued to increase in July with over 21,000 swab samples being tested per day. The numbers dramatically increased in August. Currently, around 60,000 tests are conducted on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/49-of-states-cases-detected-in-august/article32500861.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A forgotten hero||Exactly 55 years to the day, when he led a number of air strikes on Pakistan positions in the hilly heights of Kashmir. Hyderabad forgot its hero Wing Commander William Macdonald (Jim) Goodman. “Nobody came here. Nobody comes here. Nobody sees it or stops here,” said a railway staffer squirting hand sanitiser on palms of travellers at the Secunderabad railway station where the plaque is surrounded by art works of Telangana. Land link On Sept 1, 1965, Pakistan mounted a sneak attack on India. Called Grand Slam, it tried to sever the land link to Kashmir by targeting Akhnoor. Among the soldiers who helped repulse the attack and rob it of the surprise element was Wing Commander William Macdonald Goodman. The gallantry award citation reads: “During the period from the 1st to the 9th September, 1965, Wing Commander William Macdonald Goodman led a number of reconnaissance and ground attack missions on Pakistani tank and troop concentrations, undeterred by heavy air and ground opposition from the enemy. He was a source of inspiration to all ranks under his command. Under his guidance, his unit maintained a very high standard of serviceability which contributed to a number of successful air strikes on enemy positions.” Ironically, his name was James and a clerical error rendered him William, which was his father’s name. Among his aviation feats were flying a military aircraft from the United Kingdom to India, without any air route information or radar support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-forgotten-hero/article32500877.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 25 lakh ex-gratia for medicos dying of COVID||Telangana government would issue ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh to the families of healthcare professionals who die of COVID-19. A decision to this effect was announced by Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office on Tuesday. This will be in addition to the Rs. 50 lakh insurance provision offered by the Central government. Buzz around this announcement started spreading from late afternoon after various doctors’ associations met the Health Minister. However, the healthcare professionals requested ex-gratia to be increased. Treatment at NIMS If any doctor or healthcare workers contracts COVID-19, they will be provided treatment at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), as per an earlier demand. Mr Rajender’s office stated that the number of days spent by the professionals to recover from COVID will be considered as ‘on duty’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-25-lakh-ex-gratia-for-medicos-dying-of-covid/article32500865.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Applications invited for start-up accelerator plan||The Entrepreneur Zone (TEZ - a Startup Accelerator), in association with Technology Incubators in the University of Hyderabad, has invited applications for its Online Start-up Launcher Program (SLP). The programme, which runs over three months, is designed as a combination of online weekend mentorship sessions and start-up consultancy/incubation/support services to help budding entrepreneurs launch and scale. The programme covers Idea Assessment & Market Validation, Customer Discovery, Business Modelling, Product development- MVP, Technology Integration, Regulatory Compliances, Go-To-Market Strategy, Finance & Funding, Business Plan & Pitch Deck, and Communication & Networking. Eminent Entrepreneurs/Investors/Industrialists would mentor aspiring entrepreneurs through experiential learning. With no age limit, any graduate can apply for the programme, which would assist them to transform their ideas/research/innovation/expertise into a viable business. Selection would be on the basis of the business idea presented. The last date to apply is September 20, and the programme is from October 3-December 19. Interested can apply online onwww.tez.co.inby clicking on the Startup Launcher program or write toinfo@tez.co.inor call 7660857600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited-for-start-up-accelerator-plan/article32500872.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lakhs tune into digital classes for school students||The much anticipated digital classes for school students saw an impressive 85.42% students participating on various platforms much to the delight of the officials. Lessons on Doordarshan and T-SAT channels recorded maximum number of participation with 10,72,851 students out of the total 16,43,309 students in classes 3 to 10 attending. The number is much higher as 78,696 watched on the same platforms using services at libraries, gram panchayats rather than in their home networks. As expected the number of those who logged in to listen to the digital classes using mobiles, laptops and computers is also high at 1,91,768. Special Chief Secretary, Education, Chitra Ramchandran told The Hindu that 60,515 students, who did not have any access to the above sources, were reached out by the teachers through different modes. She said the response was overwhelming and teachers played an active role in motivating the students and reaching out to them after the classes as well. According to the figures obtained from the Education Department 1,42,979 students used the worksheets prepared by the teachers. The worksheets were not too academic as the officials were aware that students were coming back to academic work after a long gap and they need to go slow. The T-SAT App also recorded massive hits with 1,56,658 users logging in while the total views recorded on the first day were 11,73,921. Ms. Ramachandran said that positive response from students and parents has boosted the morale of teachers and smashed any apprehensions. “There are lot of enquiries from the stakeholders on the assessment part as well,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lakhs-tune-into-digital-classes-for-school-students/article32500889.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Follow Unlock 4.0 norms strictly: BJP||Telangana BJP on Tuesday urged the State government to strictly follow guidelines of Unlock 4.0 and prevent spread of coronavirus in teaching communities that are safe so far. City president and MLC N. Ramachander Rao said that the TRS government has taken a decision to call all teachers and non-teaching staff of colleges and schools contrary to the Centre’s decision of only 50% staff attendance at a time. The MLC said the government should reconsider its decision and call only 50% staff for conducting online classes. Calling the entire staff of schools or colleges may pose danger of COVID-19 spread to those who are till now taking measures to protect themselves from the infectious disease. Mr. Rao advised the government to accept “constructive” suggestions of Opposition parties instead of viewing them as allegations, and requested for strict implementation of the Centre’s ‘Unlock-4’ guidelines issued in view of public health as the positive cases in TS are increasing by the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/follow-unlock-40-norms-strictly-bjp/article32500866.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man drowns||A joyous occasion turned tragic for a family, after a man drowned in a water body in the Bibinagar police station limits late on Monday night after he went there with his family to immerse a Ganesha idol. The police said the victim, E Srinivas (45), was a resident of Kondamadugu village. He used to run a grocery store in the area. The man, along with family, was proceeding in a small procession towards a local water body to immerse an idol which the family had installed in their house. Around 10.15 pm, Srinivas, said to be in an inebriated condition, waded into the water to swim. Even as he was swimming, he drowned. Police were alerted and the body was retrieved from the lake around 12.15 am on Tuesday. A case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-drowns/article32500868.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ginning mills seek power subsidy||The State government has started its homework on the procurement of cotton during the 2020-21 marketing season by involving the Cotton Corporation India (CCI) and private ginning mills in Telangana, with the farming community heeding to its advise on regulated farming and cultivating cotton in about 59.1 lakh acres this season. At a meeting held with the Ginning Mills Association, Minister for Industries K.T. Rama Rao and Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy suggested the millers to be proactive in cotton purchases and assured them that the government too was ready to examine their problems with a positive view. The ministers assured the association that they would take the matter to the notice of the Chief Minister for taking a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ginning-mills-seek-power-subsidy/article32500884.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man jailed for sexual assault||A 65-year-old man on Tuesday was awarded rigorous imprisonment for five years for sexually assaulting a minor girl. The offence took place in April 2019 in the Begumpet police station limits, when the accused, Chandraiah (64), was sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl. He was caught red-handed by the victim’s uncle who approached the police with a complaint. A case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, was registered, after which an investigation was conducted and the victim was taken to the Bharosa Centre where her statement was recorded. First Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge Suneetha Kunchala awarded the punishment and a fine of Rs. 10,000, or, in case of default, further six months of simple imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-jailed-for-sexual-assault/article32500880.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni to practice more EoDB norms||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) is following Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) practices as suggested by the Ministry of Coal as part of increasing the indigenous coal production and reducing coal imports. Participating in a video-conference organised by Coal Secretary Anil Kumar Jain from New Delhi on Tuesday, Director (Operations) of SCCL S. Chandrasekhar stated that they had been following EoDB in all aspects of coal trading, procurement of machinery and awarding contracts for mutual benefit of all stakeholders towards the larger goal of scaling up indigenous coal production. Representatives of Sandvik, a private company supplying mining machinery to coal companies including SCCL, who also participated in the virtual meet stated that the practices of Singareni in procuring the mining machinery were most transparent and such practices could be implemented at the Coal India level too. The Coal Secretary said as part of the government plans to reduce coal imports as much as possible by increasing the indigenous coal production Coal India was taking steps towards production of 1,000 million tonnes coal. Director (Finance) N. Balaram, Advisor (Mining) D.N. Prasad, Executive Director (Coal Movement) J. Allwyn, participated in the virtual meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-to-practice-more-eodb-norms/article32500885.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pangolin poaching racket busted||An organised pangolin poaching and smuggling racket has been busted by the Forest officials in Kawal Tiger Reserve of Adilabad Circle, headed by Field Director Vinod Kumar. Teams headed by DFOs of Mancherial and Asifabad, FDOs of Bellampally and Kagaznagar, and forest range officers of Asifabad and Kagaznagar divisions worked for one month before zeroing in on 20 persons involved in the wildlife crime chain. Of them, 10 accused persons have been identified, arrested and produced before the judicial first class magistrate, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pangolin-poaching-racket-busted/article32500890.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineers’ meeting held||The annual general meeting of the Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers – Hyderabad Regional Centre (IIChE-HRC) was held recently through the online mode. Sanjay Bhardwaj, chairman, IIChE-HRC, spoke about the possible avenues of cooperation between stakeholders relevant to the chemical sector. M. Misra, secretary, and D.N. Singh, treasurer, presented the activities and annual accounts. M. Ranga Rao, chair, and M. Mukunda Vani, co-chair of student chapters, announced the winners of competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineers-meeting-held/article32500874.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Applications invited||Lila Poonawalla Foundation is inviting applications from girls from Hyderabad district for scholarship for Engineering studies from this academic year. Scholarship application forms are now available on www.lpfscholarship.com from September 1, according to Lila Poonawalla, chairperson, LPF. The foundation is active in Maharashtra and it is offering scholarship in Hyderabad for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited/article32500875.ece
02 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Scholarship for Intermediate students||Sarojini Damodaran Foundation is inviting applications for its Vidyadhan scholarship programme aimed at economically backward Intermediate students with an annual income below Rs. 2 lakh. Students would be eligible for a scholarship of Rs. 6,000 per year and if they do well it would be extended for degree courses. The last date is Sept 30. Details can be had on www.vidyadhan.org or with Lakshmi Tejaswini at 6300391827 and 8367751309.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scholarship-for-intermediate-students/article32500876.ece
02 September 2020||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Sans doctors, govt. hospitals are ‘temples without deities’: Bhatti||The TRS government in the State has not even filled the posts sanctioned by the previous Congress government in the Medical and Health Department and Vaidya Vidhana Parishad after six years of assuming power, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikarmarka has alleged. Speaking during his visit to the Nagarkurnool district hospital on Tuesday as part of the CLP’s hospital tour, he said it was unfortunate that the government was not providing proper infrastructure and staff in the public sector healthcare services even as the novel coronavirus pandemic was creating terror in the State. “A government hospital needs at least 350-bed capacity to be qualified as a district hospital. However, the one at Nagarkurnool has only 100-bed capacity. Even the posts of doctors and other staff sanctioned for the erstwhile hospital by the previous Congress government have not been filled during the last six years,” Mr. Vikramarka said. The hospital has no basic infrastructure for the diagnosis and treatment of COVID-19 patients such as CT scan and angiogram. Even the X-Ray machine was out of order, he pointed out. Against the sanctioned 49 doctor posts for the hospital, 34 were vacant, the CLP leader said. Government hospitals in the State are “temples without deities” since there were no sufficient number of doctors in any one of them. He reiterated the demand for opening isolation/quarantine centres in every Assembly constituency in the State as home quarantine facility in villages was helping the spread of COVID cases. He also used the opportunity to mock Health Minister Eatala Rajender for not taking measures to fill vacancies even in his department “in spite of his tall talks that the movement for statehood was for the rightful share of government jobs for Telangana youth”. KCR in hiding  Mr. Vikaramarka also visited the Nalgonda district hospital with a contingent of Congress leaders on Tuesday. There, he said while people continue to fend for themselves following the COVID crisis, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is “hiding like a mouse in his farm house”. “Besides ignoring the voices of leaders from the Opposition on pandemic management, KCR has ridiculed many. The government has washed its hands of all COVID-19 responsibilities,” he said, adding that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao was “a visible Chief Minister only during elections”. He pointed out that the hospital has just 14 doctors, across specialties and departments, while the actual requirement is 375. All the 309 nursing posts in the various grades are also vacant. “Hospitals under TRS government have become temples without gods,” the senior Congress leader reiterated. He wondered why any patient would visit such hospitals for treatment, and said the government had failed in filling up vacancies and building confidence among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sans-doctors-govt-hospitals-are-temples-without-deities-bhatti/article32500858.ece
02 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||A 100-year experiment to tell how long seeds live||Gene banks of six global research institutions, including ICRISAT, have begun a 100-year experiment at the Svalbard Global Seed Vault in a quest to know how long seeds live. The experiment could prove crucial for effective restoration of the world’s food resources someday. Data from seeds of 13 crops, four of which will be provided by ICRISAT’s gene bank in India, will be collected during the experiment. “ICRISAT will bring seeds of chickpea, groundnut, pearl millet and pigeon pea to the experiment during 2022-23. They will be tested initially before being put in the vault for storage at -18 degree Celsius. They will be taken out for testing once every decade during the course of the next 100 years to determine longevity,” said Dr Vania Azevedo, Head of ICRISAT’s R S Paroda Genebank. The first test sets deposited in the vault for the experiment on Thursday were barley, pea, wheat and lettuce produced by the German gene bank IPK in Gatersleben. Over next three years, six institutions will be placing seeds of other crops into the vault for the experiment. The main principle for conserving seeds is that well-dried and frozen seeds from many important food crops can stay alive for centuries; some species may even survive for more than thousand years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-100-year-experiment-to-tell-how-long-seeds-live/article32500904.ece
02 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Parties gearing up for Dubbak bypoll||Though the Election Commission is yet to notify the vacancy at Dubbak Assembly constituency, political parties have already entered into campaign mode. The constituency fell vacant due to the sudden demise of TRS MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy. The political parties are expecting by-elections for this constituency anytime in October along with the elections for Bihar Assembly. As expected, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao is in the forefront and is already making visits to the constituency. During the Assembly elections in 2018 as well as later, he has been looking after the erstwhile Medak district and now also he is the in-charge. Last week, he visited Dubbak and held a meeting with officials. While directing them to acquire lands for Mallannasagar canals, he also instructed them to complete the double bedroom houses within one month. In all probability, the TRS may allot the ticket to Sujata, widow of Ramalinga Reddy. Meanwhile, M. Raghunandana Rao from BJP who had contested the previous election and lost to late Ramalinga Reddy is trying once again and started visiting the constituency. He is promising better compensation for land oustees of Mallannasagar. Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) led by Prof. Kodandaram has also announced that it would contest the elections, stating that the seat was allotted to them in the previous elections as part of the joint contest. Congress has also announced that it would contest the by-election. K Venkateswara Reddy from the party has been acting as in-charge for the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parties-gearing-up-for-dubbak-bypoll/article32500906.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Artisans make a statement||The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic was visible in more ways than one at the annual Ganesh immersion event. There were frequent announcements about masks and social distancing. The imagery of Ganesh showed how artisans used the disease to make their comment. The installation at Siddiambar Bazar had small Ganesh idols with PPE kit, hand sanitiser, masks, and so on. The spiky ball of magnified coronavirus too proved to be an inspiration with one Ganesh idol crushing the dreaded virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/artisans-make-a-statement/article32500883.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Satisfied’ JEE aspirants write exams, heave a sigh of relief||The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for admission to top engineering colleges across the country was conducted in the Capital on Tuesday, adhering to strict protocols put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. From staggered entry and exit to sanitising computers between shifts, the examination originally scheduled in April was conducted after being deferred twice. Students at various exam centres said they were happy with the arrangements made by the National Testing Agency (NTA) to ensure a level of hygiene at the centres and were relieved that the examination was finally over. The only grievance shared by a few students was that they had been allotted examination centres far away from their place of residence and with limited public transport options available, they had a hard time reaching the centres. Smooth process Archit Karan, after exiting the examination centre said, “I was a little nervous ahead of the examination due to the number of safety protocols but it was a smooth process. We were given fresh masks, made to sanitise our hands and our temperature was also checked. There was no crowding at any time.” The NTA had informed that the examination will be conducted in two shifts a day between September 1 and September 6 and to ensure safety of students, the seating area would be thoroughly sanitised along with the monitor, keyboard, mouse, webcam, desk and the chair. It added that a gap between two seats will be maintained and students will be given staggered reporting times to avoid crowding. Long commute Gyana Lal, a parent outside a centre in Vivek Vihar said that his only problem with the organisation was that the exam centres had been allotted far away from their homes. “We live in West Delhi and the examination centre was allotted in East Delhi. With the Metro still closed, it is tough to commute such long distances.” He added that he was happy that the government decided to conduct the examination as the students were coming under a lot of pressure due to the uncertainty and fear of losing an academic year. “The conduct of the examination became politicised, causing unnecessary mental pressure on the minds of the students,” Mr. Lal said.  Other parents waiting outside the centre were also happy that the exams were being conducted as they had waited enough. “COVID-19 is not going away any time soon. We are happy with the arrangements made at the centre and thankful that it is over,” said Harleen Kaur a parent. Another candidate, Sayan Gutpta said that the examination process went off glitch-free and he was free to concentrate on cracking the examination instead of being worried about contracting the virus. Another student, Stuti Mehra said that all the fears of giving the exam that were in her mind vanished as soon as she entered the centre and hoped that there would be no spread of the virus so that students do not have to suffer a zero year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/satisfied-jee-aspirants-write-exams-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article32500797.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amnesty report on Delhi riots lopsided, biased: police||Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed that a recent report by Amnesty International India on the north-east Delhi riots was “lopsided, biased against the police, and has maliciously made a case of human rights violations”. Responding to an article published in The Hindu on August 28 titled ‘Why did police fail to prevent Delhi riots?’, the city police said the ‘Investigative Brief’ of Amnesty India carried various infirmities and shortcomings while dealing with a sensitive issue. The police called into question the credibility of the organisation itself saying that the NGO was reportedly found violating provisions of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act and that the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate are conducting investigations against it. Contained violence The Delhi police said they were successful in containing and controlling the north-east Delhi riots within 36 hours and effectively prevented it from spreading to other areas of the Capital. “All legal procedures and provisions related to arrests are being followed meticulously. Courts have found sufficient evidence to justify judicial custody [of arrested persons],” the police said, adding: “The allegation that those arrested were asked to sign blank papers is without any basis and only a concocted story”. Assault on men Amnesty India’s report had cited a viral video in which alleged Delhi police officers can be seen kicking and hitting a group of five wounded men, poking them with rifles, and asking them sing the national anthem on February 24. The NGO’s report stated that one of the men in the video, 26-year-old Faizan, was allegedly detained by the police for close to 36 hours without any charge. He was handed over to his mother at 1 a.m. on February 26 after his condition deteriorated. The report claimed that his family members later admitted him to Lok Nayak Hospital where he died the same night. Refuting this claim, the Delhi police said, “As per the investigation, Faizan along with others were caught in a riotous situation and were rounded up at the spot by the police personnel on duty”. “The police personnel seen in the video assaulting the young boys and asking them to sing the national anthem are being identified and legal action will be taken against them,” the police said.  All legal procedures and provisions related to arrests are being followed meticulously. Courts have found sufficient evidence to justify judicial custody [of arrested persons] Delhi Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amnesty-report-on-delhi-riots-lopsided-biased-police/article32500789.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure confirmed tickets to disabled DU examinees: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday ordered the Ministry of Railways to ensure that all students with disabilities who need to travel to the Capital to appear in physical exams being held by Delhi University are provided confirmed tickets. Waiting list A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said that in view of the limited number of trains running currently, effort shall be made to provide them confirmed tickets. “The Ministry of Railways shall ensure that all the PwD categories students, who require to travel to Delhi for purposes of sitting in the second phase of the examination, are extended necessary assistance to confirm the tickets under the wait list, so that they do not miss the opportunity of sitting for the examinations,” the court said. It said students can book tickets in waiting list and inform the Railways two days in advance. The High Court also asked DU to file an affidavit stating the number of students who have registered for the second phase of exams. The university will also mention in the affidavit as to when the results of both the phases can be declared. The court has the matter for further hearing on September 22. Advocate Jagjit Singh, representing the Ministry, said the Railways already gives concession to several categories of PwDs, including those with visual and speech impairment. The High Court was hearing pleas seeking to set up effective mechanisms for PwD students so that educational instructions can be transmitted to them properly and teaching material is provided to them through online mode of teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ensure-confirmed-tickets-to-disabled-du-examinees-hc/article32500786.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Provide chargesheet to Narwal, police told||The High Court on Tuesday asked the police to provide the entire chargesheet, once it is filed before the trial court here, to the Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots case. Justice Vibhu Bakhru directed the police to also provide Ms. Narwal all the statements, including those of protected witnesses, that it was relying upon. Protect identities The High Court said the statements of the protected witnesses can be suitably redacted to protect their identity. The court also noted that the police has assured it will file the chargesheet on or before September 17. The court’s order came after Ms. Narwal’s counsel said her bail application was being withdrawn from the court and it will be moved before the appropriate trial court after the filing of the chargesheet. On Monday, the High Court had asked Ms. Narwal’s counsel if she would consider going ahead with her bail application after two weeks when the chargesheet in the case is likely to be filed by the police before the trial court by September 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/provide-chargesheet-to-narwal-police-told/article32500787.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||August 2020 had four ‘good’ air quality days||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Tuesday said that the air quality of August was better compared to the same period in 2019. August had four “good” air quality days, while there were no such days in 2019. Also, the average Air Quality Index (AQI) of August is better compared to last August, according to the DPCC. “In August 2020, the Air Quality Index has improved considerably with four ‘good’ days and 27 ‘satisfactory’ days whereas there were nine ‘moderate’ days and 22 ‘satisfactory’ days in August 2019,” the DPCC said. The average AQI of August was 64, which is less compared to 86, the average AQI of August 2019. Lesser the value of AQI, better is the quality of the air. Since January, the average AQI of each month has been lesser than the value in 2019, the data showed. There have been studies which showed that due to the different phases of the lockdown and restrictions due to COVID-19, the air quality has improved as there are lesser vehicles on the road and other industrial and business activities have also been reduced. Combined effect “We have received good rainfall in August. Also, industries are not working in full scale and work-related travel is less. This reduction in pollution is a combined effect of meteorological factors and lockdown measures,” said Vivek Chattopadhyaya, senior programme manager at Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/august-2020-had-four-good-air-quality-days/article32500791.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Three held for robbing autorickshaw passengers||Three men who posed as autorickshaw driver and passengers and rob people have been arrested from east Delhi’s Ashok Nagar area, the police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Sunny (22), Sonu (29) and Ravi (19), they said. According to police, the incident took place on July 28 when a man named Laxman and his friend boarded an autorickshaw in which two other passengers were already seated. When they reached New Ashok Nagar metro station, Laxman and his friend got off the rickshaw to relieve themselves. One of the two passengers suddenly approached them, snatched their bag and fled. The police apprehended all the three accused while they were trying to dispose of the robbed mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-for-robbing-autorickshaw-passengers/article32500801.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC holds physical courts after 5-month gap||The legal fraternity gave a mixed response to the commencement of physical hearings by the Delhi High Court on Tuesday, after a gap of more than five months, with several lawyers asking the court that their matters be heard via video conferencing. The court has been conducting hearings through videoconferencing since March 24 to contain the spread of ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Two Division Benches — one of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan and other of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar — and three single judges — Justices Jayant Nath, V.K. Rao and Yogesh Khanna — held physical hearing of cases on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-hc-holds-physical-courts-after-5-month-gap/article32500802.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Paying homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/paying-homage/article32500800.ece
02 September 2020||Bhopal,||Immunisation programme in Madhya Pradesh hits roadblock||Full immunisation for infants has been hit in the urban areas of Madhya Pradesh, more remarkably grappling with COVID-19, in April-July when the complete lockdown was in force and staffers diverted to combat the pandemic, said the National Health Mission (NHM). The district worst hit by the pandemic, Indore, is also the one to fare the poorest among the 52. The State’s largest urban centre could provide full immunisation coverage (FIC) to merely 8,502 infants (up to a year old), or 32% of the target of 26,547 for the period. The district had surpassed its target for the same period last year, and showed 76.1% FIC, according to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4), 2015-16. This year, the State has to immunise 19,83,161 infants but had achieved 81% of its target for April-July, crucial months for immunisation before the monsoon hits and restricts mobility, with Guna, Vidisha, Harda and Indore districts not even touching 70% coverage. The State had achieved nearly 90% of its target for the period last year. Closure of child-care institutions, diversion of staffers for COVID-19 duties, putting off village health and nutrition days (VHNDs) and the inability of workers to visit the field had been major challenges, Saloni Sidana, Additional Mission Director, NHM State unit, told The Hindu . “But we are picking up and achieving 90% coverage now.” Nearly 50% of the staff members, including auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and accredited social health activists (ASHAs), were dedicated full time to COVID-19, more so in urban areas, said Dr. Sidana. “Diversion of the staff has been a great reason for drop in the immunisation coverage,” she said. However, she added, the State was shifting its focus relating to COVID-19 from house-to-house surveillance to community participation at fever clinics so that ANMs, ASHAs and anganwadi workers were available for their regular duties. “We have directed workers to hold VHNDs as usual on Tuesdays and Fridays, when immunisation sessions are organised too,” she said. Restrictions on public transport had further hit immunisation, believed Santosh Shukla, State Immunisation Officer. Still, he said deploying jeeps in 89 tribal blocks and mobilising Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram teams helped. “In fact, parents often refrain from bringing children to centres for the fearing of contracting the infection,” he explained. Catch-up sessions In April and May, 26,000 immunisation sessions were lost. There were 51,590 dropout sessions in March-May, not held for various reasons. The State government undertook three catch-up sessions in May, June and July, vaccinating 2,56,103 children and 83,191 pregnant women. Notably, Jhabua, Alirajpur and Sidhi districts had in April-July immunised more infants than projected for the period. Further, 11 districts, mostly tribal, had achieved at least 90% of their target. “This is owing to the migrants who returned,” said Dr. Shukla. The first catch-up session vaccinated 1,03,174 children who had returned with their parents from other States, 56% of the target. “We had the foresight to identify children of migrants at inter-State borders across 35 districts requiring immunisation as they returned,” he said, adding the government would provide their details to other States as migrants returned. Immunisation in Bhopal touched 96% in April-July as the administration opened ward-level immunisation centres allowing for staggered sessions and counselled families during surveys, said Dr. Shukla. “In Indore, the virus has spread to several wards, so setting up camps has been difficult,” he said. Dr. Sidana said the government was focusing on improving logistics. “Transporting vaccines and maintaining cold storage was a problem during the lockdown,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/immunisation-programme-in-madhya-pradesh-hits-roadblock/article32500826.ece
02 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Minor raped, killed in Mathura||A minor girl was allegedly raped and killed in a village in Mathura in the early hours of Tuesday, the police said. The incident happened in a village under Yamunapar police station. The victim’s uncle told reporters that a local man allegedly took his niece and his own niece with him on Monday evening without informing anyone. “We kept searching for the girl the whole night. At around midnight, we informed the police. Early morning, the police found her body in the fields outside the village. Without clothes, it was covered in blood,” he said. The relative claimed that during the search they found that the accused first left his niece at his sister’s place in a neighbouring village and then took the other girl to the fields. Mathura Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover said, “The body has been sent for post mortem and the report is awaited. The witnesses have claimed the culprit is a local, who took the two girls to a village grocery shop. He is absconding,” he said. The SHO of Yamunapar police station said an FIR has been registered against the accused for kidnapping and murder. Locals suggested more than one person could be involved in the crime. Earlier, agitated locals shouted slogans and it took the police some time to bring the situation under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/minor-raped-killed-in-mathura/article32500827.ece
02 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Active virus cases in Gurugram cross  1,000 mark again||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Gurugram breached the 1,000-mark again on Tuesday, over a month after the number had fallen to three digits. The district administration is now considering reserving 30% beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients and fix a quota for State residents. As many as 196 new cases were recorded and 142 people recovered in Gurugram on Tuesday. The total number of active cases now stands at 1,048. So far, 133 people have died due to the virus, including 93 with co-morbidities. The number of active cases in Gurugram had declined steadily from June 20 to August 16, except for a brief surge from July 15 to 24. During the period, the number of active cases fell from 1,840 to 694. There was an improvement in recovery rate and a steep decline in infection rate, despite an increase in number of tests per day. On July 30, the number of active cases in Gurugram had fallen below 1,000-mark to settle at 991 for the first time since the surge in cases was noticed towards May-end. However, active cases again witnessed a surge post-August 16. The district has been recording more than 100 new cases per day since August 21. Chief Medical Officer (Gurugram) Virender Yadav said the surge was a pan-India phenomenon and attributed it to easing of restrictions and casual attitude of the masses. He said a meeting was held with the management of private hospitals to discuss increasing the number of reserved beds for COVID-19 patients from 25% to 30%. “Since the Haryana government has capped the charges for COVID-19 treatment, the private hospitals prefer patients from outside the State. So, we might also consider fixing a quota for residents of the State. We have 1,078 reserved beds, but only 100-odd are occupied,” said Mr. Yadav. The number of RT-PCR tests has been doubled to 1,300 per day over the past couple of days and antigen tests reduced to 700. Mr. Yadav said the administration would aim to maintain the death rate below 2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/active-virus-cases-in-gurugram-cross-1000-markagain/article32500809.ece
02 September 2020||Gurugram,||Doctor found dead||A 39-year-old doctor with a private hospital in the city was found dead in Sector 47 at 4 a.m. on Tuesday. The police suspect personal reasons for him taking the extreme step. He was staying alone, the police said, adding that his six-year-old daughter stays with his wifein West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/doctor-found-dead/article32500807.ece
02 September 2020||Indore,||5 held under NSA for violating norms||Five persons were arrested under the stringent National Security Act on Tuesday for allegedly taking out processions here in Madhya Pradesh on the occasion of Muharram in violation of the COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the local administration, the police said. All the five persons, including 60-year-old former Councillor Usman Patel who resigned from the BJP in February to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and joined the Congress, have been sent to the Indore Central Jail, they said. Despite the ban imposed by the Indore administration on all religious events in view of COVID-19 pandemic, tazia processions were taken out in Khajrana area on Sunday, officials said. Usman Patel, Ismail Patel (45), Ansar Patel (38), Mohammed Ali Patel (65) and Shahzad Patel (28) were arrested in this connection following an order from the district administration, Superintendent of Police-East Vijay Khatri said. Meanwhile, Khajrana police station in-charge Dinesh Verma said they have recommended that NSA provisions be invoked against one more person for alleged violation of the COVID-19-related restrictions during the Muharram procession. He said 22 others have also been arrested in this connection and four separate FIRs registered under various IPC sections and other provisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/5-held-under-nsa-for-violating-norms/article32500828.ece
02 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to ramp up farm produce exports||The Rajasthan government is examining the scope for increasing the export of agricultural commodities after strengthening agro-processing units amid the limited opportunities available during the COVID-19 pandemic. The State Agricultural Marketing Board will help the farmers in the export of cumin, oilseeds and isabgol. Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup said here on Tuesday that the export promotion would help strengthen agricultural economy, which in turn would enhance productivity and employment. Attempts would be made to promote the outreach of ethnic food items, organic produce and value-added farm products in the international market, he said. The mandi samitis in Nagaur, Jodhpur, Barmer, Pali, Jalore and Bikaner will shortly send proposals to the Union Ministry of Food Processing Industries for developing mini food parks under the agro-processing cluster scheme. Mr. Swarup said at a meeting of the State-level agricultural export monitoring committee that the Board would connect the farmers and exporters directly with the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) and the Spices Board through videoconferencing. The State agro-processing, agri-business and agri-export promotion policy, released last year, encourages agricultural exports and seeks to increase farmers’ incomes. The policy has made a provision for a Rs. 500-crore fund in the Rajasthan State Cooperative Bank to disburse loans to farmers and allocated a grant of up to Rs. 20 lakh every year on the export of organic farm produces. The policy also seeks to promote the capacity of agro-processing sector to upscale the operations through capital infusion, technology transfer and hand holding support. The State government has tried to accelerate capital investments in value and supply chain of agriculture and allied sectors while implementing the policy. The officials of the Agriculture Department and representatives of APEDA threw light on the action taken under various schemes for promoting farm activities and identified the cereals, vegetables and fruits that could be processed and exported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-to-ramp-up-farm-produce-exports/article32500830.ece
02 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Students can approach NTA’||Maharashtra Minister for Relief and Rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar on Tuesday said students from flood-affected areas in the State can make a representation to the National Testing Agency through District Collectors if they fail to appear for the JEE-NEET exams. The JEE-Main for admission to engineering colleges began on Tuesday and will go on till September 6, while the NEET is scheduled for September 13. Mr. Wadettiwar said the State would protect the interest of all students, adding that the NTA will take an appropriate decision on such representations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/students-can-approach-nta/article32500829.ece
02 September 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra cross 8 lakh mark||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 15,765 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally in the State to 8,08,306, said a health official. With 320 new fatalities being recorded, the death toll reached 24,903. The number of active cases in the State is 1,98,523. The number of patients discharged from hospitals is 10,978, taking the number of recovered cases to 5,84,537. Mumbai recorded 1,142 new cases and 35 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-8-lakh-mark/article32500823.ece
02 September 2020||Nagpur,||Over 53,000 evacuated from flood-hit Vidarbha||More than 53,000 people have been evacuated from 175 villages of Nagpur, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region where flooding occurred following heavy rain and release of water from dams, officials said on Tuesday. Over 92,000 people have been affected by the floods and heavy showers in the four districts in the last few days, a report released by the Nagpur divisional commissionerate said. Eleven rescue and relief teams, including of the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force and the Army, are engaged mostly in Chandrapur and Bhandara districts, it said. Following incessant rain during the weekend in east Vidarbha region and Madhya Pradesh, water was released from various dams of Maharashtra and the neighbouring State, causing flooding in several various villages of east Vidarbha. Till 1 p.m. on Tuesday, 53,224 people from 175 affected villages of the Nagpur division have been shifted to safer places, the report said. Out of these, 27,091 people have been evacuated from Nagpur, 18,192 from Bhandara, 5,667 from Chandrapur and 2,274 from Gadchiroli district, it said. As many as 76 villages have been affected in Bhandara district, 61 in Nagpur, 22 in Chandrapur and 16 in Gadchiroli, the report said. Two teams of the Army were deployed in Pombhurna tehsil and Ladaj village of Brahmapuri tehsil of Chandrapur, disaster management officer Jitesh Survade said, adding that water has started receding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-53000-evacuated-from-flood-hit-vidarbha/article32500824.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records highest single-day spike in 59 days with 2,312 cases||The Capital saw its highest single-day spike in 59 days with 2,312 new cases of COVID-19 reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The last time a higher number of new cases was reported was on July 4 — 2,505 cases. The total number of cases now stands at 1,77,060. Tuesday also witnessed an increase in almost all other parameters — number of active cases, positive people in home isolation, positivity rate, and people admitted in hospitals. Also, 18 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,462. Of the total cases, 1,56,728 people have recovered and there are 15,870 active cases. Third sero-survey The Delhi government on Tuesday started the third serological survey in 10 of the 11 districts in the city, officials said. The serological survey is conducted to find the percentage of the population with antibodies against the virus. “From today [Tuesday], we are starting the third sero-survey. Last time we had done district wise survey and this time we will do ward wise. The sample collection will take about seven days and the result will be out in seven-10 days after it,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. “We will start the survey in the west district from tomorrow [Wednesday]. The district has to collect the highest number of samples and they are still preparing for it,” an official said. The first such survey done in June-July showed that 22.8% of people had developed antibodies and the second one in August showed that 29.1% of people had antibodies. In the current survey, about 17,000 random blood samples from across the city will be collected. The active cases, which stood at 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark.  The number of positive people in home isolation crossed the 8,000-mark on Monday and is the highest in over 40 days. People in hospitals — 4,186 — are also the highest in over 45 days. The number of containment zones in the city has increased to 846, which has been increasing for about 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-59-days-with-2312-cases/article32500820.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Consider other viable options for giving GST dues to States’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider more “legally viable and sustainable” options for providing Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues to States to help them tide over the financial crisis during the pandemic.  ‘Repayment liabilities’ In the letter, Mr. Kejriwal told the Prime Minister that the two options provided by the Ministry of Finance — which require the States to borrow loans and then meet the repayment liabilities — will put an onerous burden on them. Mr. Kejriwal issued an appeal that the GST Council should consider authorising the Centre to borrow on its behalf and extend the period of collection of cess beyond 2022. On August 27, the GST Council had offered two options to the States to tide over their GST revenue shortfall as the GST cess collected from items such as cars and tobacco was not adequate to compensate them for this financial year. State governments could borrow either via a special window facilitated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or raise debt from the market. “It is in this background that I would like to submit that the two options of borrowing presented by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, which primarily require the States to borrow and then meet the repayment liabilities will put an extremely onerous burden on the States which are, as it is, reeling under the financial crisis due to the shortfall in the revenue collections and an increased commitment of expenditure emerging from COVID-19 response,” Mr. Kejriwal stated. “The Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, clearly provides for compensation to States for loss of revenue arising on account of the implementation of the GST in pursuance of the provision of the Constitution (101st Amendment Act, 2016). To create an artificial distinction between loss occurring due to the implementation of the GST and those occurring due to COVID-19 pandemic goes against the very spirit of the Compensation Act and will lead to a creation of a trust deficit between the Centre and the States,” he also stated. ‘Cumbersome process’ Mr. Kejriwal also said the options proposed by the Centre will lead to a cumbersome process of borrowing by the States, crediting the debt amount to the GST compensation fund, “to which legally all the compensation fund has to be credited in terms of Section 10 of the GST (Compensation Act, 2017) and thereafter release of such funds as may be due to the States from the Compensation Fund. The servicing and ultimate repayment of a loan through the States will also be similarly cumbersome and circuitous.” Mr. Kejriwal wrote: “Considering the above situation, it is my humble submission that the Government of India may like to consider a much simpler and legally sustainable option of borrowing by the Govt. of India to the full extent of the requirement of compensation in the year 2021 and 2022, to be serviced and repaid by the future collection of cess w.e.f 2022. For this purpose, the GST Council may consider authorising the Government of India to borrow on its behalf and extend the period of collection of cess beyond the year 2022. I am informed this was the consensual opinion of the majority of the States during the deliberations held in the 41st GST Council meeting.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/consider-other-viable-options-for-giving-gst-dues-to-states/article32500814.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for killing room-mates over payment of rent in Khyala||A 23-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his two room-mates in west Delhi’s Khyala over payment of rent, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said the accused, Sakir, is from Amroha. The victims have been identified as Ajam (45) and Amir Hasan (46), who used to sell garlic on a cart. The victims were living together in a rented accommodation since 1994. The police said they received a PCR call at 7.25 p.m. on Monday stating that two persons had been murdered on the first floor of a building in Raghubir Nagar. On reaching the spot, the men were found dead with multiple stab injuries. Nabbed from village During enquiry, the police discovered that a man named Sakir also used to stay with the victims, but was absconding. “Teams were formed to find the suspect. It was also revealed that he is a resident of Chuchela village in Amroha. A team was sent to the village from where he was arrested,” the officer said. During interrogation, Sakir allegedly told the police that the victims were asking him to pay rent for four months, even though he had not been staying in Delhi due to the lockdown. “He had left for his village earlier this year and returned after four months. The victims were pressurising him to pay the rent but he was arguing that he won’t pay because he wasn’t staying,” Mr. Purohit said. ‘They had been fighting’ The two sides were fighting over this for the last 10 days and during one of the arguments, the victims used foul language against Sakir following which he hatched a plan to kill them. On Sunday night, Sakir stabbed the duo while they were sleeping. “Sakir hid the murder weapon and left for his village to collect money so that he could move to an unknown location,” the DCP said, adding that the weapon has been recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-held-for-killing-room-mates-over-payment-of-rent-in-khyala/article32500817.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Urban body to discuss MPD-2041 with RWAs||The Delhi Development Authority will be interacting with Residents’ Welfare Associations of unauthorised colonies on Wednesday. Unauthorised colonies The urban body said critical issues pertaining to preparation and planning of the Master Plan for Delhi 2041 would be discussed at the online meeting. “The first meeting is with RWAs from unauthorised colonies on September 2. The objective of this meeting is to understand the issues faced by residents in unauthorised colonies and discuss possible planning solutions,” the DDA said. As part of a public engagement strategy pertaining to MPD-2041, the urban body will be interacting with several stakeholders over the next two months. “As part of the process, a series of discussions and consultations have been carried out with various stakeholders and civil society groups to seek inputs from the people of Delhi that will help drive the agenda for the Master Plan. In the coming month, meetings have been scheduled with RWAs,” the statement read. Earlier, the DDA had launched a Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041, where information pertaining to the plan would be made available “It will also provide citizens the opportunity to share opinions through perception surveys,” the DDA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/urban-body-to-discuss-mpd-2041-with-rwas/article32500804.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Six ISIS operatives plead guilty before Delhi court||Six accused in a terror case on Tuesday pleaded guilty before a Delhi court of being ISIS operatives and part of the criminal conspiracy. Accused Abu Anas, Mufti Abdul Sami Qasmi, Suhail Ahamed, Nafees Khan, Mohd Afzal and Obedullah Khan moved applications before the court, which is likely to take up the matter on Wednesday, their advocate Qausar Khan said. Special Judge Parveen Singh is also scheduled to take up the matter tomorrow to consider the quantum of sentence for six other accused, who pleaded guilty earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/six-isis-operatives-plead-guilty-before-delhi-court/article32500805.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP protests ‘corrupt’ civic bodies||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday protested across the city against the “corrupt” BJP-run municipal corporations. The protests were headed by AAP MLAs and councillors. The party had put up 250 hoardings and banners across the city condemning the BJP. Addressing a press conference, Aam Aadmi Party leader Durgesh Pathak said: “BJP-ruled municipal corporations have not only tarnished the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi but also insulted the people of Delhi.”  ‘Dirty city’ “It is very unfortunate that Delhi, which is the Capital, was found to be the dirtiest city due to BJP’s corruption. Tourists from different countries of the world come to Delhi, the PM lives in Delhi...,” the AAP leader said. He said one of the key responsibilities of the civic bodies is to keep the city clean but the survey by the Centre shows that they have “miserably failed at this”. “The BJP in Delhi has done only one thing — made money through corrupt means,” Mr. Pathak said.  Education and health He said the municipal corporations have also failed in the sector of education as they could not provide books to the students. They also failed to give salaries to doctors, he added. “The citizens of Delhi will defeat the BJP in the upcoming elections. We will run the civic bodies within the same budget and make Delhi clean if we come to power,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-protests-corrupt-civic-bodies/article32500816.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP blames govt. for not stepping up testing||Even after five days of the announcement, there had been no increase in the testing of COVID-19 patients but the number of infection cases has been on the rise “continuously”, alleged Delhi BJP on Tuesday. On August 31, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said only 14,000 tests had been done it exhibiting how “careless” the Kejriwal government was in this regard. “Kejriwal is again blaming the outsiders to hide failure; are outsiders to blame for the number of containment zones increasing by 200 in the last four days too,” Mr. Gupta asked. “The Kejriwal government has no answer, that's why it is looking for an option to blame its negligence on others,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-blames-govt-for-not-stepping-up-testing/article32500806.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for killing another||A 38-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly stabbing a man to death in south-west Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, the police said on Tuesday. Three days ago, the accused, Surender, had misbehaved the victim’s wife. Following this, the victim — Sagar— had slapped Surender, a senior officer said. To take revenge, Surender stabbed Sagar on Monday night. The victim was rushed to hospital where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-held-for-killing-another/article32500815.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Despite govt. target of 40K tests daily, the number stands at half||Almost a week after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the number of daily COVID-19 tests would be doubled from 20,000 to 40,000 within a week, the average number of tests is still in the range of 20,000, according to the State government data. Mr. Kejriwal had made the announcement on August 26 after chairing a meeting on the upward trend in COVID-19 cases in the city. However, in the next six days, the average number of daily tests was only 20,837, according to data from the official government bulletins. This is slightly higher than the average daily tests in July —19,684. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson said: “We are increasing the number of tests and have reached around 25,000 tests in a day. We will attain 40,000 in the coming days.” Delhi has been witnessing a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases for the past 10 days with Tuesday reporting the highest number of new COVID-19 cases in the last 59 days. An official said the government is expected to form a strategy on how to increase the testing in a meeting with an expert committee on Wednesday. “There is a meeting with an expert committee headed by V.K. Paul (Member, NITI Aayog) tomorrow [Wednesday]. The number of tests cannot be randomly increased. The idea is to break the chain and control the virus and for it, we will have to know whom to test or which areas to target and these have to be decided scientifically. We will have a clearer picture after tomorrow’s meeting,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The government is also considering whether testing can be done from Mohalla clinics to increase the number of tests but is yet to take a decision. Mohalla clinics “We are looking at whether testing can be done from Mohalla clinics during its working hours. If it is not possible, we are also considering whether we can conduct testing from the premises after the clinics close at 2 p.m.,” another government official said. Multiple district officials said they were yet to get any directions from the government on the increasing testing. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said last week that the government would aggressively track each positive case and test their contacts to increase the daily tests from 20,000 to 40,000. The decision to increase testing had become controversial with the Delhi government last week alleging that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) was putting pressure on Delhi government officials to not increase the number of COVID-19 tests in the city, a claim which was rubbished by the MHA, which termed it as “false and baseless”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/despite-govt-target-of-40k-tests-daily-the-number-stands-at-half/article32500812.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||One by one||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-by-one/article32500822.ece
02 September 2020||Paris,||Millions in Europe head back to school||Millions of mask-wearing European children headed back to school on Tuesday after summer holidays despite rising numbers of novel coronavirus infections, as Hong Kong rolled out a mass COVID-19 testing programme. Schools reopened in Russia, Ukraine, Belgium, England and France, where teachers and their pupils aged 11 and older were obliged to wear face coverings, echoing regulations in place across the continent. Russia’s 17 million school children returned to class as the country confirmed it had passed one million infections — still well behind the tally in the U.S., now higher than six million. Officials have drawn fire from parents and teachers worried that strict social distancing and other protective measures will not be enough to prevent a second wave of COVID-19. But many governments insist that the greater risk is young people losing out on crucial in-person lessons, and that keeping kids at home for distance learning puts too big a burden on working parents. “I do not underestimate how challenging the last few months have been, but I do know how important it is for children to be back in school, not only for their education but for their development and well-being,” Britain’s Education Secretary Gavin Williamson said. The Chinese city at the centre of the initial outbreak, Wuhan, took another leap back to normality on Tuesday when its almost 1.4 million youngsters also returned to schools and kindergartens. State media broadcast images of thousands of students hoisting the Chinese flag -- a daily routine at all public schools -- despite warnings to avoid mass gatherings. Upsurge in cases European countries have faced an upsurge in cases in recent weeks after successfully suppressing the numbers, a similar story to Hong Kong where three-quarters of cases have been detected within the past two months. However, Hong Kong’s attempts to roll out a mass testing scheme have been hampered by distrust of officials following China’s crushing of the city’s democracy movement. Doctors and testing firms from mainland China are involved in the programme, fuelling public fears that their DNA and data will be harvested to create a system of control underpinned by biometrics. “I think it’s a waste of time,” local resident Emily Li told AFP. “The government can’t convince me in terms of the effectiveness of the testing programme.” Distrust of officials continues to fuel protests across the world against social-distancing measures, mask-wearing and other regulations. Several European governments have promised not to try to enforce more lockdowns of the severity seen earlier this year when businesses were forced to close and millions of people were confined to their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/millions-in-europe-head-back-to-school/article32500484.ece
02 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Turmeric shortage sparks concern in Lanka||A shortage of turmeric, a key ingredient in Sri Lankan cuisine, has sparked concern among consumers about supply amid soaring costs in recent months, after the government decided to restrict imports in the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic. While the government has capped maximum retail price of turmeric powder at LKR 750 (about Rs. 295) a kg, traders point to a black market where the spice is sold for almost five times the price. The Sri Lankan Navy has also busted attempts to smuggle in turmeric by sea. Last week alone, authorities recovered nearly 1,500 kg of dried turmeric in Norochcholai, some 150 km north of capital Colombo, on the island’s western coast. Despite the shortage and reports of shooting prices, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has said his government will not go back on its decision on import restriction. Addressing a Cabinet sub-committee on Cost of Living on Monday, Mr. Rajapaksa said even though public faced difficulties for a “short period” of time, steps taken to “strengthen the rural economy and uplift the farming community cannot be reversed.” To control foreign exchange parity rates and to get rid of high debt burden on farmers, imports should be restricted, he said, according to a media statement issued by his office. In April, a month after COVID-19 hit Sri Lanka, the government announced a ban on non-essential imports, to cope with the strain on the country’s foreign reserves as the country’s crucial export and remittances sectors were badly hit. Vowing to boost local production, President Rajapaksa said his government would focus on domestic agriculture. Key source According to importers in Sri Lanka, India is among their chief sources of turmeric imports, selling about 5,000 tonnes a year. With production in the island far from meeting the demand — an estimated 7,000 tonnes — consumers fear an acute shortage of turmeric in the coming months. Sri Lanka produces about 2,000 tonnes of processed or dehydrated turmeric a year, a report in the local weekend newspaper Sunday Times said. The flavourful spice is used in everyday cooking in Sri Lanka, in a range of regional dishes from the hodi or sodhi (stew), a staple side dish with strong hoppers, hoppers and pittu , to dal, eaten with rice and curry. Further, following the pandemic, some have begun adding a pinch of turmeric to their daily cup of tea, citing “medicinal” properties it is believed to have. Sri Lanka was in the past self-sufficient in turmeric cultivation but along the years, its production fell, according to W.M.W. Weerakoon, Director General of the Department of Agriculture. In his view, the current focus on local production is welcome as it shines the spotlight on local agriculture. But regaining self-sufficiency may take time. “In the case of turmeric, it will be early next year by the time our production grows enough to meet 60 to 80% of our demand,” he told The Hindu . Meanwhile, importers and traders point to a growing black market where 1 kg turmeric is sold for LKR 4,500 (roughly Rs. 1,765), despite the government’s price regulation. A group of turmeric importers has also written to the President and the Prime Minister, seeking release of 1 million kg of turmeric, imported from India earlier, stuck at the Colombo Port, in order to ease the shortage at least temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turmeric-shortage-sparks-concern-in-lanka/article32500483.ece
02 September 2020||Los Angeles,||Protests erupt after police kill another black man in U.S.||U.S. police have shot dead another black man, who they said had a handgun but had dropped it during a violent altercation in Los Angeles, triggering fresh outrage as tensions soar over racism and police brutality. The man, named in local media as 29-year-old Dijon Kizzee, was riding his bicycle when Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies tried to stop him for an unspecified vehicle code violation on Monday afternoon. He fled on foot, and when officers caught up with him he punched one deputy in the face, dropping some items of clothing he was carrying, police said. ‘Possessed handgun’ “The deputies noticed that inside the clothing items that he dropped was a black semi-automatic handgun, at which time a deputy-involved shooting occurred,” Lieutenant Brandon Dean told reporters. It was not clear if the man was reaching for the gun when he was shot. Mr. Dean said officials had yet to interview the deputies involved. “So, he did not have the gun in his hand, it had already dropped to the ground, so when he was actually shot, he was unarmed at that point?” a reporter asked during the televised press conference. “I don’t know that,” Mr. Dean replied, adding later: “If this individual was reaching for a semi-automatic handgun, I would suggest... that’s probably why deadly force was employed.” The man was pronounced dead at the scene. Up to 100 people gathered at the scene demanding justice in the hours after the shooting, according to local media. The latest killing came as U.S. President Donald Trump was headed for Kenosha, on Tuesday, where police shot black father Jacob Blake seven times in the back on August 23, leaving him paralysed from the waist down. The killing had triggered protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protests-erupt-after-police-kill-another-black-man-in-us/article32500489.ece
02 September 2020||ANKARA,||Turkey renews call for talks, sharing of resources with Greece||Turkey’s Foreign Minister said on Tuesday his country favours a dialogue with rival Greece that would lead to the fair sharing of resources in the eastern Mediterranean, where the two countries are locked in a tense standoff that threatens to spill into a conflict. Speaking at a news conference with his Algerian counterpart, Mevlut Cavusoglu also accused Greece of engaging in “provocative acts” in the region with the backing of the European Union, which has threatened sanctions against Ankara. “We favour a joint solution that involves sitting around the table to negotiate with all sides in the eastern Mediterranean, for everyone to benefit from the eastern Mediterranean resources in a just manner or for the sharing (of resources) fairly,” Mr. Cavusoglu said. Both countries’ forces have been conducting military exercises in the seas between Cyprus and the Greek island of Crete. The standoff was sparked when Turkey sent its research vessel, Oruc Reis, accompanied by warships to search for gas and oil reserves. On Monday, Turkey extended Oruc Reis’ mission by another 10 days, until September 12. Meanwhile, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has threatened Greece with military action, described Turkey’s activities in the eastern Mediterranean as the “pursuit of (its) rights and justice” and denounced what he said were Greek efforts to “imprison” Turkey to a small region surrounding its coast. “Efforts to descend on the riches of the Mediterranean, which are the rights of every country around it, is an example of modern-day colonialism,” Mr. Erdogan said. “It is comical how (nations) are trying to throw a state that cannot even help itself as bait in front of a regional and global power like Turkey,” he said. Threat of EU sanctions Greece, a member of the EU, claims the waters are part of its continental shelf and has enlisted the support of the 27-nation bloc, which has condemned Turkey’s “illegal activities” and plans to blacklist Turkish officials linked to energy exploration. Turkey disputes Greece’s claims that waters where it’s searching for hydrocarbons are part of Greece’s continental shelf, insisting that Greek islands near Turkey’s coast cannot be taken into account when delineating maritime boundaries. Ankara accuses Athens of trying to grab an unfair share of the eastern Mediterranean’s resources. Greece voiced hope on Monday that the threat of sanctions from its European Union partners would persuade Turkey to stop its offshore energy prospecting Greek government spokesman Stelios Petsas said the threat of sanctions gave Turkey an “exit strategy” from the evolving crisis. “It is in Turkey’s interest above all, with its economy shaken and so many open fronts, to realize that right now Europe is offering it a way out... (allowing) the peaceful settling of our differences to define maritime zones between the two countries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-renews-call-for-talks-sharing-of-resources-with-greece/article32500487.ece
02 September 2020||GAZA CITY,||Hamas says pact reached to calm violence with Israel||Gaza’s Hamas rulers said on Monday they have reached an agreement through international mediators to end the latest round of cross-border violence with Israel. Under the deal, Hamas would halt the launches of explosives-laden balloons and rocket fire into Israel, while Israel said it will ease a blockade that has been tightened in recent weeks. The Israeli restrictions have worsened living conditions in Gaza at a time when it is coping with COVID-19 outbreak. As a result of indirect mediation efforts led by Egypt, the United Nations and Qatar, Hamas said “several projects will be announced to serve our people in Gaza Strip and contribute in mitigating” difficult living conditions. Hamas said conditions would return to “what they were before the escalation.” Fuel supply to restore Under previous, unofficial understandings reached through intermediaries, Hamas has sought a broader easing of restrictions on movement, increased power supplies from Israel and large-scale economic projects to help lower unemployment hovering around 50%. It accuses Israel of moving too slowly or not honouring its commitments. COGAT, an Israeli defense body responsible for Palestinian civilian affairs, announced late on Monday that it would reopen Gaza’s only cargo crossing and resume fuel shipments into the territory. It also said it would reopen a 25-km fishing zone off Gaza’s coast. “This decision will be tested on the ground- if Hamas, which is accountable for all actions that are taken in the Gaza Strip, fails to stand its obligations, Israel will act accordingly,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hamas-says-pact-reached-to-calm-violence-with-israel/article32500479.ece
02 September 2020||Beirut,||France ready to host Lebanon aid conference||Visiting French President Emanuel Macron said on Tuesday he is ready to host a second aid conference for blast-hit Lebanon next month. “I am ready for us to organise, maybe around mid or late October, another international support conference with the U.S.,” he said in capital Beirut. Mr. Macron’s visit is his second since the colossal August 4 blast in Beirut port killed more than 180 people, wounded at least 6,500. The explosion compounded Lebanon’s worst economic crisis since the 1975-1990 civil war, with a UN agency warning on Sunday that more than half of the population risk a food crisis by the end of the year. On August 9, the international community pledged €252.7 million (around $300 million) in aid at a video conference jointly organised by France and the UN. The international community promised to stand by Lebanon but demanded that its aid be distributed directly to the needy instead of through the government. He said work going forward would be “under very firm coordination with the United Nations, so we can again ask for support from all the different states”. Protesters who have taken to the streets since October last year regard Lebanon’s political class as inept and corrupt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-ready-to-host-lebanon-aid-conference/article32500482.ece
02 September 2020||PARIS,||Charlie Hebdo republishes 2015 cartoons||French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo , the target of a massacre by Islamist gunmen in 2015, said on Tuesday it was republishing controversial cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed for the trial of alleged accomplices to the attack. “We will never lie down. We will never give up,” director Laurent “Riss” Sourisseau wrote in an editorial. Twelve people, including celebrated cartoonists, were killed on January 7, 2015, in the rampage at the paper’s offices in Paris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/charlie-hebdo-republishes-2015-cartoons/article32500478.ece
02 September 2020||Tehran,||UAE betrayed Muslim world with Israel deal: Khamenei||TehranIran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Tuesday accused the UAE of betraying the Muslim world with its agreement to normalise relations with its arch-foe Israel.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-betrayed-muslim-world-with-israel-deal-khamenei/article32500481.ece
02 September 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Pakistan warns ex-PM Sharif must return to face graft case||A Pakistani court on Tuesday warned the country’s ex-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who is ailing in London, to return home by September 10 to face corruption charges.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-warns-ex-pm-sharif-must-return-to-face-graft-case/article32500485.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||In Kashmir, still a long way to go||In August last year, Parliament removed Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution from the statute book, effectively emasculating the special status of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). It followed this up by carving out two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh from the State of J&K. The asymmetric character of the Indian federal structure notwithstanding, the manner in which the changes were effected caused a great deal of dissonance. Criticism was, nevertheless, muted given assurances that the step would ensure a more closely integrated Indian Union. Pakistan, predictably, criticised the step, while China raised its voice observing that the bifurcation of J&K and the voiding of Article 370 should not be seen as solely India’s internal matter.  Use of ‘shock and awe’ The August 2019 move confirmed the Centre’s willingness to resort to ‘shock and awe’ tactics to achieve pre-determined objectives, irrespective of whether the end results were achievable or not. The move on J&K was unexpected, the closest parallel possibly being demonetisation. In both instances, the decisions were taken in utmost secrecy, leaving no scope for discussion, debate or retreat. The rashness of the determination to ‘cross the Rubicon’, and erase the notion of a separate ‘Kashmiri identity’, was not dissimilar (though in a totally different context) to the use of air power to hit targets inside Pakistan (in February 2019).  Ruling party spokesmen went to considerable lengths to argue that the August 2019 decision was aimed at ending an anomaly that had existed for long, and had impeded Kashmir’s peace and progress. To sugar-coat the decision, prospects were held out of vastly enlarged economic and job opportunities, reduction in levels of terrorist violence, closer integration with the rest of India, etc. At the time, much of India seemed to accept this line of argument, though there were quite a few who objected to the stealth and secrecy that preceded the announcement of abrogation of two key Articles of the Indian Constitution, and the stringent security measures that were enforced across J&K, immediately prior to and subsequently.  Unrealised goals, concerns The laundry list of achievements and missed targets post-August 2019, however, suggest that the intended objectives of bringing Kashmir into the national mainstream, reducing levels of violence within the Union Territory, and expansion of jobs and economic opportunities, are still to happen. Levels of violence continue to remain high, broadly approximating to what existed in earlier periods. The only silver lining has been the elimination of some top leaders of terrorist outfits, such as the Hizbul Mujahideen.  The incarceration of several senior political leaders for several months under various provisions of the law, including the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, has, meanwhile, undermined faith in the Centre’s commitment to an early return to orderly political discourse. Senior leaders like former Chief Minister, Mehbooba Mufti, still remain in custody. Prominent National Conference leaders, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah, have been released from custody, but continue to face restrictions, with regard to any kind of political activity. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone was released after spending almost a year in preventive detention. The widespread concern about human rights and human rights violations in Kashmir, hence, appears justified. As former Supreme Court of India judge, Justice Madan Lokur, observed in a recent newspaper article, that even a form of house arrest is a matter of grave human rights concern.  Among other major concerns has been the difficulty faced by the populace in accessing information, following the snapping of high speed Internet connections. Students, in particular, have faced serious problems on account of the lack of access to high speed Internet. Another has been the State government’s announcement (in May this year), to notify the J&K Grant of Domicile Certificate Procedure Rules, 2020 and set a fast track process in motion. The domicile certificate issue has become a ‘ticking time-bomb’, with some political parties declaring that it could “change the demography of the erstwhile State of J&K”. The latest notification allows non-locals to apply for domicile certificates, thus potentially opening the floodgates for ‘outsiders’ to settle in the State, acquire property, and also apply for jobs in an already scarce job market.  Even Jammu which had less to lose on account of the changes effected in August last year, has its own list of concerns, mainly relating to the likely influx of outsiders into the State following the removal of restrictions. The inability of local businesses to compete with goods from outside is another of their special concerns. Together with the higher cost of manufacture in J&K, as also the need to import raw material from elsewhere, concerns abound about their ability to compete with ‘outsiders’.  The complexity of Kashmir India has had problems with Kashmir ever since 1947. The reasons are too well known to merit repetition. Successive governments in Delhi and Srinagar have wrestled with the problem. Kashmir has also figured prominently in at least four India-Pakistan conflicts, and the Kashmir issue has been a constant irritant in India-Pakistan relations. Anyone who deigns to read the debates in the United Nations on Kashmir during the 1950s and 1960s, and even subsequently, will understand the complexity of the Kashmir problem. Every government in Delhi has dealt with Kashmir during their tenure in office, and there has been no lack of trying on their part to solve the issue.  Many options on how to deal with the problem have been previously explored. In the past, the security problem had attracted the attention of renowned international experts, with experience in dealing with insurrections, sub-nation tensions, terrorism, and various other facets of organised and unorganised violence. During the final decades of the 20th Century, many saw a parallel between the situation in Kashmir and that prevailing in Northern Ireland. There was also a steady exchange of ideas and concepts with a view to finding a solution. A major difference between Northern Ireland and Kashmir, however, was that unlike in the case of the former, Kashmir had two hostile neighbours, one of whom was intent on instigating violence and providing a suitable ‘rear’ for terrorist elements.  Long shadow of world events It is a moot point whether a long-standing problem of this nature can be solved merely by rejecting notions of a ‘separate Kashmiri identity’, disowning all talk of Kashmiri ‘ insaniyat’ and ‘ jamhooriyat’ , and making Kashmiris pay for their past mistakes. An ingrained belief that the solution lay in squeezing Kashmir’s politics into the ‘straitjacket’ of national politics, shorn of all past beliefs and practices, could prove to be highly misplaced. It would amount to proposing a simplistic solution for a complex problem.  The Kashmir problem cannot again be detached from the extant situation prevailing in parts of the world, where many existing systems are undergoing changes. This crucial aspect of current history cannot be voided. Across the globe, for instance, radical Islamist ideas appear to be gaining ground, and the impact is being felt on youth in our region as well. No longer can it be solely attributed to the fallout of the Afghan Jihad of the 1980s, for there are other forces such as the Islamic State in existence today, that are a force to reckon with. This must be recognised even as claims are being made that home-grown militancy in J&K has been extinguished. There are sizeable pockets of radical Islamist influence present in Kashmir today. One index is the existence of the so-called ‘unattached militant’. All such elements are driven by the power of an idea, and cannot be suppressed through sheer force. These are among the fundamental issues that need resolution in Kashmir.  Have debate, introspection Current policy makers should not assume that it is a failure of imagination, or of policy making, that prevented past leaders from understanding and finding a solution for the Kashmir problem. It would be wise for leaders in Delhi to be careful not to view immediate dividends as representing a new dawn, and should instead pause to try and ascertain what lies beyond the horizon. Restoring normalcy should be an urgent priority even if many of the senior political leaders in Kashmir belonging to the National Conference, the People’s Democratic Party, or PDP, the J&K Congress, and the J&K Peoples’ Conference appear highly critical of the Centre’s policies.  An intense debate must start as to where we go from here. Introspection after the initial one year has become essential. ‘Strong arm populism’ has its limits. A moment arises in the course of any struggle when it becomes necessary to undertake value-based judgements. In Kashmir, the moment is now. We cannot afford any more ‘evolutionary adaptations to an already dangerous social and complex environment’. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-kashmir-still-a-long-way-to-go/article32500466.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A ‘new’ democracy?||The ‘democracy’ that a major part of our world swears by comprises free and fair, multi-party, fixed-term elections based on universal adult franchise in its ideal state. A contestant party winning the majority of votes represents the will of the electorate and gets to form the government; others sit in the opposition until the next election. Simple. Its simplicity also conceals some of its structural flaws. The ‘majority of votes’ actually boils down to the majority of seats in the legislature which, in 99% of the time, comes riding a minority of votes. Rarely is a government formed backed by a majority of votes won in a free and fair election. Rajiv Gandhi’s formidable, highest-ever majority in Lok Sabha in 1984 was still short of a majority of votes by about 2%. Narendra Modi in 2014 had the backing of 31% of the votes cast and in 2019, of just about 40%. In 2016, Donald Trump won the presidential race in the U.S. with a deficit of over 2.5 million popular votes vis-à-vis his chief competitor, Hillary Clinton. It is the same story everywhere. What democracy brought Besides the fact that this democracy is far from becoming universal even well into the 21st century, its own life history is just a tiny dot on the canvas of time: short of a hundred years. Universal adult franchise itself is yet to hit the 100-year mark in the most advanced nations. Even in the U.S., white women won the franchise a hundred years ago but their black sisters had to wait another few decades. The white women too won it in the teeth of opposition, including from thousands of women raising the slogan: A vote or a husband? The Swiss women got the vote less than a half century ago, nearly a quarter century after Indian women did. Democracy did not come alone; its accoutrements included guaranteed individual rights and freedoms, free market economy, equality of all citizens, freedom of life and property, etc. — inviolable constituents of capitalism. Elections created space for change of governments even as they guaranteed security against challenge to the regime; the challenge could arise only outside of it, through ‘revolutions’, which in turn had much contracted the space even for a change of government and none for a change of regime. In the end, most ‘revolutions’ could not escape the dragnet of ‘democracy’, their existential as well as conceptual adversary. One of democracy’s primary premises, free market, which ‘revolutions’ had sought to eradicate, is now under threat not from its adversary but from its own internal dynamics. The unprecedented concentration of wealth at the top 1% around the world knocks the bottom out of competition in the market, so integral to its freedom. The principle and the form This high concentration of wealth is in turn getting to impact the system’s political functioning by replicating the process. The hollowing out of this foundational principle of capitalism while retaining its form is also running parallel in the other freedoms, other constituents of ‘democracy’ by hollowing out the substance of even free and fair elections and individual freedoms while retaining the form. The notion of the free choice of the exercise of vote at the ballot box gets completely distorted with innumerable manipulations of that choice on all sides, all within the four walls of the constitutional provisions. These include distortions injected into the electoral process through control and misuse of the institutions responsible for carrying out the process; the creation of an atmosphere of delegitimisation of dissent or protest vis-à-vis the government by counter-posing the demands of unquestioning patriotism or nationalism to it; using the sentiment of patriotism to circumscribe the dispensation of fair justice; the control of the flow of information through the ‘independent’ media; setting up of professionally organised mechanisms for creating and propagating fake news; creating and promoting hatred between communities of people through patronising identity politics and using frenzy in lieu of reason as a mobiliser of votes; and not least, meting out the harshest treatment to the most prominent dissenting voices by lodging them in prison on fake charges, never mind that they would all be let off a decade later by the courts for want of evidence. The message to society would have been delivered. A global scenario True, much of what we see happening before our eyes has been witnessed by history; Adolf Hitler’s example, though extreme, comes closest to what we are watching helplessly. Yet, the example is a bad one, for Hitler needed to destroy the Constitution which had brought him to power; today, remarkably democratic and progressive constitutions around the world give rulers enough space for misuse for achieving those goals and yet making the misuse palatable to voters through media and mobilisation. It is interesting that voters haven’t tired of this misuse anywhere going by the ever-rising voting percentages at election time. If this concentration of wealth and political power was the case with one country or society, it could easily be attributed to specific local conditions; but this looks like a more generalised, global scenario: in the U.S., China, Russia, India, Brazil, Hungary, Turkey and elsewhere. It is therefore futile to argue that this has flown from the personality or personal diktats of one or the other charismatic leader. Its global scale defies that inference. Clearly then, we are witnessing the transformation of the regime of democracy, a systemic transformation from within, from one that had brought us the promise of liberté, egalité, fraternité political, social and economic, to its very opposite: the highest concentration of economic, political and therefore social powers ever in history. Yet ‘democracy’ remains its trademark. Nor does it have the appearance of a sudden, odd aberration with an expected short life, or a spontaneous occurrence in different regions. Its scale is too massive for that. Is this a ‘new’ democracy in store for humanity? Harbans Mukhia taught history at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-democracy/article32500473.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Disruption and chalking out a new idea for education||When the novel coronavirus first made headlines at the beginning of the year, few in the comity of nations would have thought even in their wildest dreams that it was going to have so much of an impact that not even a single sphere of life would be left unaffected. Now, six months into the pandemic, not only has there been a colossal loss of life and economic damage the world over, but COVID-19, as it has come to be called, is leaving a lasting impression on education. This in turn is bound to have a telling impact on generations to come, forgetting for a second the extent to which the current graduating classes are in a state of limbo. In a larger perspective it has also raised the spectre of educational institutions shuttering their doors completely or taking unprecedented steps that have invariably affected jobs and livelihoods. A comparison with the West Shifting gears in an academic setting is not easy whether one is talking about institutions in the developed West or the developing nations. Economics has always been a part of academics; it is only in the present circumstances that it has become all the more apparent as to how management, especially in private institutions, is going to meet demands on the one hand and availability of resources on the other. If one may call this new phenomenon “acadonomics”, it would imply a careful allocation of resources keeping in mind the transient nature of the issue of how long it is going to take to come back to the steady state of affairs that it once was. ‘Acadonomics’ will also involve seeing the economics of moving on to an online mode of the teaching-learning process, whether it is going to be a temporary phenomenon, something of a mix to be offered or a permanent alternative to the current scheme of things that has come to stay for the short and the medium terms. The academic choices, or in some instances, luxuries, are not the same for all countries across the world. For instance in the United States, long considered as the Mecca of Higher Education, the elite private and state subsidised universities have endowments that can be used for a range of academic activities — from giving out fellowships to subsidising tuition fees. Harvard University, for example, is said to have an endowment of close to $40 billion, and the top 10 have a cushion of anywhere between $10 billion to $40 billion. By contrast, private academic institutions in India which are not-for-profit do not have any such buffers; and, none of the institutions in this country possesses big corpuses from alumni or industry; their survival for the most part is on the annual income that comes from tuition and the assortment of other fees collected. Private education In the way they are set up, private institutions in India are hardly in a position to meet an eventuality such as COVID-19, something that comes by lightning speed and leaves a trail of destruction that would take many, many years to rectify. In an educational set-up in India, nothing can be reduced — the norms cannot be lowered nor can the infrastructure be dismantled. The status quo with respect to fixed costs remains the same, with some marginal adjustments possibly in costs of electricity, water and deferments in salaries. For the most part, the fixed and operational costs remain the same, and infrastructure once created cannot be shrunk. The downside to self-financed institutions is that in the time of the pandemic and loss of jobs, students plead inability to pay the requisite fee (and in many instances, the hostel fee as well) thereby placing additional burden on the management which feels already stretched because of existing commitments that would include paying off interest on the money borrowed for improving infrastructure on their campuses. Dual mode of learning The spike in cost for persisting with a dual mode of the teaching-learning process is going to be quite prohibitive for the next few years. First, the scaling of operations that would include the dual modes of online and offline is going to be expensive due to a dual mode of educational delivery. To rub salt into the wound, the new social distancing norms would lead to the enforcement of smaller class sizes, thereby increasing the effective teaching load and multiplicity of efforts. Second, the online teaching mode brings with it increased costs of IT infrastructure such as network bandwidth, servers, cloud resources and software licensing fees. Third, online teaching means new hiring in the IT sector and increased costs due to engagements with Massive Open Online Courses, or MOOCs, and other online platforms. Fourth, online teaching means setting up multiple studios and educational technology centres which translate into investments in high technology. Fifth, creation of virtual laboratories across all domains of studies and examination centres, etc. would add to the woes in terms of already depleted finances. Finally, it is a wrong perception that all faculty members are adept in online teaching — style and delivery go far beyond donning a jacket, having adequate personal grooming and rattling off from a teleprompter. Therefore, additional funds have to be allocated to train faculty for online teaching. Possible reforms In these difficult times, the onus is on the Centre and State governments to provide soft loans to students to stay with the educational course. For professional and non-professional courses, the natural tendency for students would be to opt for online courses as they could cut back and save on hostel, mess and travel costs. At the same time students looking at online instruction would be disinclined to pay the same fee charged for offline instruction which means that some institutions may well have to shut down due to their inability to meet costs. Therefore, owing to ‘acadonomics’, the consequences can be quite dire with a potential to cause irreparable and long-term harm to the younger generations of students as well as institutions. At this point of time it would seem prudent for the government and regulatory bodies to not interfere in the fee structure, and, for the future, even consider a measure of higher degree of financial autonomy. One would agree that in the long run, technology can flatten the cost due to economies of scale, but in a shorter frame of time of three to five years, the cost of education is likely to go up. It may be an exaggeration to say that in India, education and the financial models are inverted as opposed to many others: there is good quality private school education but one that is fairly expensive; but good quality higher education is subsidised in relation to their direct costs. While replicating any western model in India may not be wholly appropriate, it is high time institutions in India are allowed to create coffers or corpuses for a rainy day. Or, perhaps, educational institutions could come to be treated like any other corporate body, with an allowable small margin of profit. The corporate model addresses not just financial sustainability but also a professional governance structure that would entail better accountability and holistic education. ‘Acadonomics’ of the future will not only decide the fate of the academic sector in India but also its quality, ranking, research, innovation potential and its collective impact on our country’s economy. Sandeep Sancheti is Vice Chancellor, SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) Chennai and Past President, Association of Indian Universities (AIU) New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/disruption-and-chalking-out-a-new-idea-for-education/article32500468.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Treating data as commons||The Gopalakrishnan Committee set up by the government on developing a governance framework for non-personal data recently put out its draft report for public consultation. The report’s main purpose is to ensure wide sharing and availability of data in society. To ensure that companies share the required data, it was found necessary to develop strong conceptual and legal basis for data-sharing requirements and obligations. To understand why data sharing is needed, and its importance to a strong and fair digital economy, we must first recognise the infrastructural nature of data. Industrial age infrastructure — roads, electricity, etc. — were often publicly owned. Even if there was some private role, these were run as closely regulated public utilities. The idea was to ensure widespread availability of such infrastructural elements to all, and avoid wasteful duplications. Society’s data have a similar nature for a digital economy. Digital vertical integration The digital age came with useful digital services that everyone lapped up. Many of these services were free or highly subsidised. The infrastructure versus over-the-top services distinction may initially have not been too significant. But that difference becomes important as digital corporations begin to dominate all sectors, including important ones such as education and health. That very few corporations have vertically integrated all the digital components involved in delivery of any digital service is the reason for their becoming such huge global monopolies. Seven out of the top 10 companies globally today have a data-centric model. Such unsustainable concentration of digital power has a significant geopolitical dimension, with complete domination globally of U.S. and Chinese companies. At the national level its deleterious effect is of exploitation of consumers and small economic actors, and of strangulating competition and innovation. There are calls worldwide to break up Big Tech; to moderate their monopoly power. Their monopoly is best addressed by separating the infrastructural elements of digital service provision from the business of digital service delivery. There are two key infrastructural components of a digital economy: data and cloud computing. The Gopalakrishnan report and this article focus on the infrastructural element of data. Infrastructures are to be equitably provided for all businesses. Data have similar characteristics. But today, dominant digital corporations are building exclusive control over any sector’s data as their key business advantage. Start-ups try to ape the same mode. What is needed, however, is to treat data as infrastructure, or ‘commons’, so that data are widely available for all businesses. The digital businesses then shift their key business advantage from exclusive access to data to employing available data for devising digital services for consumers’ benefit. Reducing digital dependence The Gopalakrishnan committee takes such an infrastructural view of data. Data collected from various communities are considered to be ‘owned’ by the relevant community. Such ‘community ownership’ means that the data should be shared back with all those who need it in society, whether to develop domestic digital businesses or for producing important digital public goods. With a robust domestic data/AI industry, dependence on U.S. and Chinese companies will reduce. It is for these purposes that the Gopalakrishnan committee proposes the concept of ‘community data’. Only the data collected from non-privately owned sources, from society or community sources, have to be shared when requested for. Data from privately owned sources remain private. Since a community requires a legally recognisable body to articulate its data ownership claim, the committee introduces the concept of community trustees that could be various bodies representative of the community. Data collectors are considered as data custodians that will use and secure data as per the best interests of the community concerned. Data trusts are data infrastructures that will enable data sharing, sector-wise, or across sectors, and which can be run by various kinds of third-party bodies. The committee recommends a new legislation, because ensuring and enforcing data sharing will require sufficient legal backing. A Non-Personal Data Authority is also envisaged to enable and regulate all the envisaged data-sharing activities. India is the first country to come up with a comprehensive framework in this area. Starting early in this important digital policy and governance area may just provide a formidable first mover advantage for India to acquire its rightful place in the digital world. Parminder Jeet Singh works with the Bangalore-based NGO IT for Change. He is a member of the Gopalakrishnan Committee. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/treating-data-as-commons/article32500475.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The politics of hate speech||For years, Facebook has made us believe that it is committed to enforcing its policies against hate speech and misinformation. However, the recent article by The Wall Street Journal has made it clear that Facebook is not only deliberately unequipped in its handling of hate speech, but has also adopted different approaches in its treatment of hate speech in India as compared to other developed nations. Changing its policy In the run-up to the presidential election in the U.S., Facebook’s CEO announced that the company will change its policies to prohibit hate speech in its advertisements. Facebook also announced that it will fix labels on posts that violate hate speech or other policies. It will also not only remove posts that incite violence or attempt to suppress voting, including posts by political leaders, but also ramp up its teams for detecting and acting against hateful content. To show its commitment towards these new policies, it has even removed posts and ads from Donald Trump’s 2020 re-election campaign over their use of Nazi imagery. However, in India, the company seems to follow a completely different set of rules. The company has taken no such action against hate speech, misinformation and the threats, bigotry and harassment which thrive on the platform here. This is despite evidence that the hate speech against minorities published on Facebook has time and again led to deadly violence. The continuous spread of fake news has invigorated hate crimes in India, the most recent being the riots in Delhi this year. So lax is the control on hate speech today that even India’s most respected journalists and other dissenting voices are routinely threatened with rape and death threats by hundreds of social media users which remain unchecked. What is even more appalling about Facebook is its unequal treatment of hate speech. Social media platforms rely on a combination of artificial intelligence, user reporting, and content moderators to monitor hate speech. In an interview to TIME magazine, Facebook had said that it has functional hate speech detection algorithms in more than 40 languages worldwide. India has nearly 800 languages, of which 22 are official languages. Of these, only four — Hindi, Bengali, Urdu and Tamil — are covered by Facebook’s algorithms. In the TIME magazine analysis of the 2011 Indian Census, it was revealed that 25% of India’s population do not speak at least one of those four languages or English, and about 38% do not speak one as their first language. This disparity thus leaves the minorities and the marginalised groups of India most vulnerable. Choking democracy Clearly, Facebook in India is driven by profits. India with its 290 million Facebook users and 400 million WhatsApp users is the most fertile market for the company. The business model of Facebook depends on maximising reading or viewing times. Since Facebook makes its money by enabling advertisers to target audiences, as a result, it allows people to find the communities where they will spend the most time. Thus, it is in the interest of Facebook that people find communities with similar views, even if such views are used as a tool to spread and encourage hate speech, racism, misogyny, Islamophobia or homophobia. The revelations aforementioned make it clear that the people sitting in Silicon Valley are thriving by choking our democracy. Indian democracy can no longer be allowed to be defiled by this company. It is time that we call for transparency and accountability in Facebook. The company must not disregard the interests of our marginalised and minority groups which might not be of any significance to it but on whose shoulders it reaps profits. Long ago I read an interesting quote on Facebook that said, “There is a difference between being liked and valued.” It’s high time Facebook realises it. T. Sumathy aka Thamizhachi Thangapandian is an academic, Tamil poet, an MP (South Chennai constituency), and member of the Standing Committee (Information and Technology)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-politics-of-hate-speech/article32500476.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A golden moment||If further proof was needed of India’s growing stature in world chess and of the mind sport’s rising popularity in the country, the online Chess Olympiad provided it in emphatic fashion on Sunday. India became the joint champion, along with title favourite Russia, even as the Olympiad trended on Twitter and thousands followed the action through live streaming on social media. The title had to be shared because the result in two games in the second match of the final was affected by a net outage. India’s Nihal Sarin and Divya Deshmukh had lost on time — competitive chess is always a race against the clock — but probably neither would have if they were not disconnected. The Indian team management lodged a complaint and the world chess governing body FIDE’s decision to have joint champions was agreeable to Russia too, and thus there was a fruitful ending to the final. That was not quite the situation, though, when Armenia raised a similar complaint after it lost a crucial game, involving Nihal, to India in the first match of the quarter-final. The Armenians protested by not playing the second match and withdrew from the competition. But that incident should not take the sheen off India’s triumph. Chess Olympiad has always been the most prestigious team event in the game, and its history stretches to 1924. India’s best effort has been the third place in 2014. FIDE decided to conduct an online Olympiad because the 44th edition had to be postponed till next year due to the pandemic. Though India was seeded only seventh, among 163 countries, no contender would have taken it lightly, given the presence of strong players in the three categories — men, women and junior. If Viswanathan Anand and Koneru Humpy are among the greatest players the world has ever seen, Nihal and R. Praggnanandhaa could be tomorrow’s stars. In the euphoria surrounding the great Indian victory, some grim facts should not be overlooked. On Saturday when the Arjuna awards were being distributed by President Ram Nath Kovind online, the Indian chess team pulled off a thrilling victory against Poland in the semifinal of the Olympiad. Ironically, no chess player has won an Arjuna for seven years, though there have been several outstanding performances and India is ranked fourth in the world. India captain Vidit Gujrathi had said how the team was on its own ahead of the Olympiad with no support from the All India Chess Federation. The federation officials are embroiled in a tussle for power. They announced two separate teams for the Olympiad, forcing chief selector R.B. Ramesh to quit. This moment of glory, therefore, is also a time for introspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-golden-moment/article32500460.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Inevitable collapse||The inevitable has happened. India’s GDP suffered its steepest contraction on record in the April-June quarter, as output shrank 23.9% from a year earlier, provisional data show. It is evident that the stringent COVID-19 lockdowns in force through the first third of the quarter, and substantially in May, hollowed out demand. Private consumption spending, which accounts for almost 60% of GDP, contracted 26.7% as consumers abjured almost all discretionary spending. And exports, which contribute to a fifth of GDP and reflect overseas demand for Indian goods and services, shrank by nearly 20%. Investment activity was the worst-hit, collapsing 47% and shrinking in share of GDP to about 22% from 32% a year earlier as larger businesses conserved cash and refrained from any capital spending in the face of uncertainty, and smaller firms prioritised survival. Across the real economy, every single industry and services sector shrank with the solitary exception of agriculture, which grew 3.4% and outpaced the year earlier quarter’s 3% expansion. Construction suffered the most, plunging 50%, followed by the omnibus services category — trade, hotels, communication, transport and broadcasting — which shrank 47%, hit by the pandemic-linked restrictions. Manufacturing too took a severe beating, contracting 39% as demand for products deemed non-essential evaporated, and factories, even after reopening, struggled to run amid shortages of labour and added safety norms. It was left to the government to keep the bottom from falling out on demand as the Centre’s pandemic mitigation expenditure helped expand its consumption spending by 16.4% year-on-year and softened the overall blow to GDP. However, with the fiscal deficit already having exceeded the full-year’s budgeted target in just the first four months, and revenue receipts impacted by the economic contraction, the government is unlikely to maintain a similar trend in expenditure growth over the next three quarters. Unless, of course, it is prepared to forsake its vaunted fiscal conservatism and finds innovative ways to mobilise resources. The still rising trajectory of new COVID-19 infections and a high level of job losses and income erosion are also sure to retard any recovery in momentum. If the latest survey-based data from IHS Markit show manufacturing PMI for August signalling growth for the first time in five months, the same researcher’s findings also stress that “job shedding continues at a strong rate” in the industry. Equally significantly, the output numbers which are expected to undergo revision given the acknowledged difficulties in collecting data, do not capture a swathe of informal sector activity that was severely impacted. Agriculture too faces headwinds in the form of higher-than-ideal rainfall in August in several key crop growing regions in western and central India and with the impact of recent farm market ordinances yet to play out, it may be a while before the end of the tunnel is sighted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/inevitable-collapse/article32500461.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Privy Purse Bill in Lok Sabha||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, expressed her sincere hope in the Lok Sabha today that wiser counsels would prevail among the former rulers and they would co-operate with Government in abolishing privy purses and princely privileges in a democratic manner. Moving a Bill to delete the constitutional provision guaranteeing the privy purses and princely privileges, Mrs. Gandhi said the course of history was irreversible. Either one brought about changes peacefully and with consent or changes would come in a manner which neither Parliament nor the country would like. Earlier, the Speaker overruled objections to consideration of the Bill from the Jan Sangh and Swatantra members. Describing the Bill as a historic one, she said it was an important step in further democratisation of Indian society. It represented the momentum of social change in the country. She would assure the princes that there was no animus against any individual. The manner in which Government proposed to bring about this “important change” was in keeping with the democratic tradition — changes through consultations and parliamentary approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/privy-purse-bill-in-lok-sabha/article32500470.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Teaching of patriotism (From an editorial)||Educational experts have often claimed for a divorce between education and politics as highly desirable for the proper progress of the former. But educational historians have shown how education has invariably tended to become an effective political instrument in the hands of Government in all countries. This is especially the case with alien or autocratic administrations. The political ideals underlying the form of Government are inevitably embodied in the system of education provided by the State which also takes scrupulous care to exclude all opposing forces from the educational atmosphere. By a policy of strict control and Jealous vigilance, schools, colleges and universities are silently made to help the prevailing power, in an indirect but effective manner, to strengthen its hold on future generations of the country. Thus education in France has, according to an American professor, undergone changes corresponding to the changes in the political ideals and Government of the State. The historians of Indian education cannot also deny the political significance of our Government’s educational policy in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/teaching-of-patriotism-from-an-editorial/article32500469.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Auto wholesales rise, firms eye demand||Vehicle despatches by major automobile makers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor India and Hero MotoCorp. to dealers saw growth last month. This was in anticipation of healthy consumer demand in the upcoming festive season. Market leader Maruti Suzuki on Tuesday said its wholesale sales in the domestic market grew 20.2% to more than 1.16 lakh units, from 97,061 units in August 2019. Sales of mini segment cars including Alto and S-Presso saw a whopping 94.7% jump to 19,709 units, while compact segment cars such as WagonR, Swift, Celerio, Dzire, Ignis and Baleno grew 14.2%. Sales of utility vehicles such as Gypsy, Ertiga, S-cross, Vitara Brezza and XL 6 rose 13.5% to 21,030 units. Similarly, Hyundai Motor posted an almost 20% increase in domestic sales to 45,809 units last month as compared with 38,205 units in August 2019. Mahindra & Mahindra’s passenger vehicle wholesale sales stood at 13,651 vehicles in August 2020, a growth of 1% as against 13,507 vehicles in August 2019. In the commercial vehicles segment, the company sold 15,299 vehicles in August 2020, as against 14,684 vehicles in August 2019, a growth of 4%. Tractor sales for M&M’s Farm Equipment Sector continued to show strong demand with domestic sales in August 2020 at 23,503 units, a 69% growth from 13,871 units during August 2019. For Toyota Kirloskar Motor, however, the despatches were lower by about 48% at 5,555 units in August 2020, against 10,701 units in the year earlier period, as the company had faced challenges in supplying vehicles to dealers due to the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru and its surrounding areas, where most of its workforce resides. Honda Cars India sold 7,509 units in August, as against 8,291 units in the year earlier month. MG Motor India said it sold 2,851 units last month, a growth of 41% from 2,018 units in August 2019. Kia Motors said it sold 10,845 units in the month of August 2020 owing to the recovery of demand in the domestic market as against 6,236 units in the same month last year. Hero MotoCorp said it sold 5,68,674 units of motorcycles and scooters in the domestic market, about 8.5% up from over 5.24 lakh units in the year earlier month. TVS Motor said its domestic two-wheeler sales stood at over 2.18 lakh units in August 2020 as against about 2.19 lakh units in August 2019. Royal Enfield reported a 2% decline in domestic sales at 47,571 units in August as compared with 48,752 units in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-wholesales-rise-firms-eye-demand/article32507443.ece
02 September 2020||new delhi,||Manufacturing activity returns to expansion in August: PMI||Manufacturing activity re-entered the growth territory in August, driven by a rebound in production volumes and new work, amid an improvement in customer demand following the resumption of business operations, a monthly survey showed. The headline seasonally-adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 46 in July to 52 in August, signalling an improvement in operating conditions across the manufacturing sector following four consecutive months of contraction.  “August data highlighted positive developments in the health of the manufacturing sector, signalling moves towards a recovery... the pick-up in demand from domestic markets gave rise to upturns in production and input buying,” Shreeya Patel, economist at IHS Markit, said. Despite an expansion in new orders, job shedding continued in the sector. The relocation of employees following COVID-19 pandemic was often linked to the reduction in staffing numbers. The survey noted the decline in foreign exports weighed slightly on overall new orders as firms cited subdued demand conditions from abroad. On prices, higher raw material costs due to supplier shortages and transportation delays stemming from the pandemic, resulted in rising input prices in August. Looking ahead, Indian manufacturers remained optimistic for the next 12 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manufacturing-activity-returns-to-expansion-in-august-pmi/article32507450.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Appliance makers bet on festive season sales||Reeling from the significant drop in spending amid the pandemic, consumer-focussed brands are betting on the festive season to help recover losses of the past few months. Seeing steady growth post the lockdown, the brands expect an uptick of up to 30% in business, led by home and kitchen appliances on the back of work-from-home trends and strong demand from semi-urban and rural markets. “Driven by a gradual uptick in demand for value-based products, we are expecting steady growth. We are hopeful the festive season will help recover losses incurred in the past few months,” Suguru Takamatsu, divisional head, CSD, CE, Panasonic India, said. Festive sales, in general, account for 35-40% of annual business for most consumer durable firms. Panasonic saw 10% growth in July, as opposed to a contraction in May, owing to pent-up demand, first-time buyers and rising rural contribution due to a favourable monsoon. He added that growth in tier-2 markets was 13% in June and 19% in July, driven by accelerated demand for microwaves, semi-automatic washing machines, LED TVs and refrigerators. K.G. Singh, vice-president, Marketing, Whirlpool India, said with the unlocking, “initially, there was an unleashing of pent-up demand and later, with work-from-home, consumers bought appliances that add to their comfort level and ease their pain from household chores. We have seen strong, double-digit growth across cities... with many upgrading to larger screens (55 inch and above)... they are buying bigger 5-in-1 smart, convertible refrigerators above 300 litres to stock up more and venture out less, and fully-automatic washing machines…”  LG Electronics India is betting on health and hygiene being top priority for buyers. It is offering complimentary insurance benefits with home appliances for select diseases, such as COVID-19, malaria and dengue. “Last year, we saw 30% growth in the festive season and hope to achieve the same this year,” Vijay Babu, VP, Home Appliances, LG Electronics India, said. But, local lockdowns, shorter store operating hours and smaller inventory cycles remain a challenge. Dinesh Chhabra, CEO, Usha International said dealers were now cautious about building inventories given the uncertainty and preferred to look at a supplying daily/selling daily model. “The months up to December are a crucial period,” he added. Some customers have started to visit malls as they get more confident about venturing out, said Pushpa Bector, ED, DLF Retail. Footfalls at DLF Promenade went up to 18,000 in Independence Day weekend. “We are hopeful demand will normalise by Diwali,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/appliance-makers-bet-on-festive-season-sales/article32507447.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Infosys to hire 12,000 more Americans by 2022||Infosys on Tuesday announced plans to hire 12,000 American workers over the next two years, bringing its hiring commitment in the country to 25,000 over five years. In 2017, the technology major committed to hire 10,000 American workers over two years and has exceeded that goal by creating 13,000 jobs in the U.S. to date, Infosys said. Infosys will now hire an additional 12,000 workers by 2022 across a variety of roles. It will target experienced professionals as well as recent graduates. Training programmes Infosys said it would prepare workers for the 21st century careers by utilising the training and reskilling programmes it had built with partners. “Infosys has been intensely focused on creating jobs in the U.S. for the past three years,” said Salil Parekh, CEO. “We are excited to grow our presence in the U.S. as the digital transformation journeys of our clients accelerate.’’ Back home, Infosys has made pre-placement interview offers to over 3,200 engineering graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-to-hire-12000-more-americans-by-2022/article32507436.ece
02 September 2020||new delhi,||Left it to USTR on timing of initial trade deal: Goyal||Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said India is ready to sign an initial trade agreement with the U.S. and that he has left it to his American counterpart to take the final call on its timing. He also said India is in continuous dialogue with the U.S. on the agreement. Mr. Goyal said he and U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer had sorted out most of the issues around this initial trade pact. “I just had a conversation with Ambassador Lighthizer and we both agreed that we can look at doing it before the (U.S.) elections also but otherwise, soon after the elections... the entire package is near ready and can be finalised at any time that the local political situation in the U.S. permits them to. I am open to signing up tomorrow what we have agreed upon and I have left it to Bob to take a final call,” he said. The Minister made the remarks during a conversation with Ajay Banga, U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) board member and CEO, Mastercard. The Minister said the agreement could have been signed during the India visit of U.S. President Donald Trump in late February, but a “few dots and commas” had to be finalised and soon after “we were all faced with COVID-19 pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/left-it-to-ustr-on-timing-of-initial-trade-deal-goyal/article32507444.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI sets up panel on index-linked life products||Insurance regulator IRDAI has constituted a six-member working group on index-linked products following requests for permission from life insurers to introduce such products. “Current IRDAI product regulations do not specifically permit insurers to sell index-linked products. However, taking into considerations requests from life insurers, it has been decided to constitute a working group to examine various aspects,” it said. Serving customer need The working group, to be led by Dinesh Pant, appointed actuary of LIC of India, will examine the need for such products in India and how they will better serve needs and interests of customers relative to traditional savings product. It will also examine the products earlier available in the market in terms of product structure, ease of customer understanding and administrative processes and any other matter of relevance. The group, whose other members are from private life insurers and IRDAI, has been given two months to submit the report.Group to submit report in 2 monthsCurrent IRDAI regulations do not specifically permit insurers to sell index-linked products  Current IRDAI product regulations do not specifically permit insurers to sell index-linked products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-sets-up-panel-on-index-linked-life-products/article32507431.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Bharti Infratel, Indus Towers set for merger||Bharti Infratel said its board has decided to go ahead with the scheme of merger with Indus Towers. The company also said the cash consideration chosen by Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL) for its shareholding in Indus Towers came to about Rs. 4,000 crore. “After deliberations, the board has decided to authorise thecChairman to proceed with the scheme and to comply with other procedural requirements for completion of the merger, including approaching NCLT, to make the scheme effective,” the company said in a filing. Based on Tuesday’s calculation, the cash consideration chosen by VIL for its 11.15% stake in Indus Towers came to about Rs. 4,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-infratel-indus-towers-set-for-merger/article32507439.ece
02 September 2020||chennai,||‘MSMEs need extension of moratorium’||The Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) has called for extension of loan moratorium, waiver of interest on such loans and complete waiver of statutory payments till March 2021. Failure to do so would lead to 80% of its members representing MSMEs turning defaulters in the next three months, CIA Convenor K.E. Raghunathan said in a statement. The CIA has been urging the RBI to extend the moratorium period, which ended on August 31, as most MSME units had remained inactive for the last five months. However, the central bank was yet to respond, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/msmes-need-extension-of-moratorium/article32507445.ece
02 September 2020||New Delhi,||SC allows APRL to recover compensatory tariff for higher coal cost from R’than discoms||Adani Power on Tuesday said the Supreme Court had allowed its arm APRL to recover compensatory tariff from Rajasthan discoms for higher coal cost in its order issued on August 31. In September last, the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity had allowed APRL to charge higher cost of coal regarding a 1,200-MW power supply agreement with Rajasthan discoms.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-allows-aprl-to-recover-compensatory-tariff-for-higher-coal-cost-from-rthan-discoms/article32507432.ece
02 September 2020||NEW YORK,||Fluent start for Djokovic; Osaka struggles||Top seeds Novak Djokovic, Karolina Pliskova and Naomi Osaka were among the big names to shrug off the deathly quiet at Flushing Meadows and progress to the second round as a “weird,” spectator-free US Open started on Monday with heightened safety protocols for some players following a positive COVID-19 test. Several competitors were placed in what one of them described as a “bubble within a bubble” after France’s Benoit Paire was withdrawn from the men’s draw on Sunday for testing positive for coronavirus. Djokovic defeated unheralded Damir Dzumhur of Bosnia-Herzegovina 6-1, 6-4, 6-1 as he launched his bid for an 18th Grand Slam with a win at an Arthur Ashe Stadium devoid of 23,000 screaming fans. The women’s top seed Pliskova made light work of 145th-ranked Ukrainian Anhelina Kalinina 6-4, 6-0 in one of the early matches. Making a statement Black Lives Matter banners are on display in the main arenas and fourth seed Naomi Osaka wore a Breonna Taylor mask, days after she threatened not to play a semifinal to protest the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, while defeating Japanese compatriot Misaki Doi 6-2, 5-7, 6-2. “The conditions are strange, we miss the fans,” said France's Kristina Mladenovic after a 7-5, 6-2 win over American Hailey Baptiste. Mladenovic was one of several players forced to adhere to stricter safety measures after compatriot Paire was withdrawn. There was disappointment for US starlet Coco Gauff, the 16-year-old who lit up Wimbledon last year with a run to the fourth round. Gauff fell at the first hurdle, losing to Latvia’s Anastasija Sevastova 6-3, 5-7, 6-4. Men’s fifth seed Alexander Zverev was made to work hard in a three-hour-long tussle with 2017 finalist Kevin Anderson before prevailing 7-6(2) 5-7, 6-3, 7-5. Fourth seed Stefanos Tsitsipas eased through with a 6-2, 6-1, 6-1 win over Albert Ramos-Vinolas. However, it was a first round exit for ninth-seeded Diego Schwartzman and 16th seed John Isner, both going down in five sets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fluent-start-for-djokovic-osaka-struggles/article32500604.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Understanding cabin fever is crucial to the IPL bubble||There are two issues arising from Suresh Raina’s return to India before the commencement of the IPL in the UAE that are important: communication, and empathy. Officially, we don’t know why Raina, who has retired from international cricket (attracting a letter of appreciation from the Prime Minister who also recommended that he spend more time with his family), is back. “Personal reasons” is a hold-all that carries reasons ranging from personal angst to the professional heave-ho. The latter theory gained credence when in a section of the media, CSK owner N. Srinivasan reportedly said Raina had acted like a prima donna. Later he clarified that he had been misquoted and that Raina’s contribution to CSK is phenomenal and he needed to be given space to deal with his issues. Perhaps Srinivasan and CSK are being kind. But that phrase “personal reasons” tends to cause confusion and as television has shown us in recent weeks, when there is a lack of information, ill-founded theories rush in to fill the vacuum. Did Raina break the bio-secure bubble? Bubble-breaking isn’t unusual. England’s Jofra Archer took a detour to go home while the team was in the bubble during the West Indies series. Pakistan’s Mohammad Hafeez tweeted a picture of himself with an elderly lady at a golf course and had to undergo a further period of quarantine. If Raina broke the bubble, it should have made clear for two reasons: to send out a message to the others in the bubble, and to give the tournament greater credibility for taking a tough call. It is never easy to send back a player of Raina’s ability from a tournament where he has been one of the stars. Tough choices Raina is 33, a father of two children, and might have put on the balance matters of family and safety on one side and on the other, money and future prospects. And decided that the latter was less important. Even before teams come out to perform in empty stadiums, there is the matter of quarantine in hotel rooms, and a slew of do’s and don’ts that can make life difficult. Confinement and isolation can give rise to ‘cabin fever’, where decreased motivation, lethargy and depression are companions. The pandemic, where large portions of the world’s population have been confined indoors, has caused much stress. Cabin fever is common, but seldom commented on. In fact, most variations from normal behaviour in bio-secure bubbles can be put down to cabin fever, and that calls for sympathy and understanding. We don’t know enough. There hasn’t been enough cricket played in the bubble — West Indies and Pakistan played in England without any major mishaps — to arrive at conclusions that hold true for all such competitions. And that’s why the IPL experiment is important. There are more players in more teams playing over more days than anywhere or at any other time during the pandemic. Cricket cannot afford to get it wrong. The IPL cannot afford to get it wrong. Players are human Initially 13 people, including two players, tested positive for COVID-19 in the CSK outfit and we don’t know how that is affecting the others mentally. Josh Hazlewood, the Australian pace bowler, who is expected to arrive in the UAE later has said that he is “a little bit concerned.” With over two weeks to go before the start of the 53-day tournament, there’s a lot of time to worry. Players are human, and might profit from counselling in that period. Awareness of mental issues in sport have, in recent years, removed the stigma attached to them. Cricket boards have begun to treat the public like adults, explaining the problem a player might have just as they would have spoken of an injury to the body. Three months in a bubble is a long time, and it can do things to your mind and emotions. As mental conditioning coach Paddy Upton told ESPNcricinfo , “Funny things could happen”. Teams which handle these situations well will do better than teams which rely only on the basic skills of batting, bowling and fielding. There is the virus itself which is worrying, and then there is the potential for getting affected, which causes worry too. To handle personal issues without damning the player or disrespecting the pain is a big responsibility. Players and captains need to be made aware of extraordinary cases in these extraordinary times. Empathy can only come from awareness. That cricket is a mental game is one of its enduring cliches. That is truer now than ever before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/understanding-cabin-fever-is-crucial-to-the-ipl-bubble/article32500599.ece
02 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Laszlo shares CFC’s youth philosophy||Csaba Laszlo, the newly appointed head coach of Chennaiyin FC, said on Tuesday that he shared the club’s philosophy of grooming young talent. “I’ve always discovered a lot of talent in and around Europe, and I think that is the most important [aspect] for the club too,” he told The Hindu in a Zoom interview. “It’s very important that we discover more talent so that Indian football as a whole reaches the next level,” the 56-year-old added. Laszlo said he was excited, and anxious at the same time, to begin his first stint in Asia, and hoped it would turn out to be a success. “It's not my first job, but on the other hand it’s my first step in Asia,” he said. Player replacements Laszlo stated that it was imperative for Chennaiyin to find replacements for top players Nerijus Valskis, Lucian Goian and Andre Schembri, but expressed happiness at the core of the team being retained. “We have to replace some very important players, but we are working very hard on it. We will hopefully get the right players. You have to have short and long-term targets, but you must also be realistic. It is also important to respect the other teams because they are working hard,” said Laszlo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laszlo-shares-cfcs-youth-philosophy/article32500662.ece
02 September 2020||Kozhikode,||India’s growing chess depth on display in Olympiad||Shortly before the final of the Chess Olympiad between India and Russia kicked off on Sunday, former World champion Vladimir Kramnik expressed an unusual wish. “I hope both the teams win,” he said, smiling, during his stint as a commentator on an Indian YouTube channel streaming the match live. A couple of hours later, that statement turned out to be one of the strangest predictions-come-true. As it turned out, Kramnik got his wish. FIDE decided to make India and Russia the joint champions after the internet outage disrupted the final. Kramnik, who had ended the long reign of fellow-Russian Garry Kasparov 20 years ago, has trained India’s young chess players. So he has first-hand knowledge of the growing depth in Indian chess. That depth in talent is what helped Indian chess register one of its unforgettable moments on Sunday. Only one or two great players won’t take you far at a team event like the Olympiad. In Viswanathan Anand and Koneru Humpy, India has two exceptional players, both of whom have been World champions and have figured consistently among the game’s elite for a long time. They both played their parts in India’s victory, too. Doing their bit But for India to succeed, the others had to fire as well. Skipper Vidit Gujrathi and P. Harikrishna, India’s best male players after Anand, faced stiff resistance from some of the world’s finest players, and they delivered. In Aravindh Chithambaram they had capable back-up. D. Harika, India’s best bet in women’s chess after Humpy, also had a good tournament. R. Vaishali and Bhakti Kulkarni, too, put their hands up when required. In Nihal Sarin and R. Praggnanandhaa, India is fortunate to have two prodigies who could mount challenges for the World championship one day. Their consistent shows helped the team immensely on the junior boards. The two junior girls, Divya Deshmukh and Vantika Agrawal, served India well, too. The 12 mind champions deserve to be celebrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-growing-chess-depth-on-display-in-olympiad/article32500908.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Olympiad win will do wonders: Harika||D. Harika, part of the Indian team which was joint-winner with Russia in the Chess Olympiad, believes that the historic triumph augurs well for the future of the sport in the country. “I am sure this win will mean a lot to our players, especially the young talent. They can have the confidence of beating the best in the business after our performance, especially in team events,” the 29-year-old told The Hindu . “It is a very special moment because the Olympiad medal is something which I have always dreamt of and being joint-winners is something unforgettable,” she said. She said it was the result of teamwork. “Everyone chipped in one round or the other from the start to finish. So, it would be unfair to single out any one particular player. All of us gave our best,” said Harika. “When we outwitted China in the Pool match, we got the feel and positive vibes that we can eye something special in this Olympiad,” she said. “Definitely, the preparations have been different and also the strategies. So many factors had to be taken into consideration including minor issues like handling the computer mouse with ease. “But, I must tell you it is really tiring playing on a computer screen. I am just waiting for the competitions on the board,” the World No. 9 said. “I will be working on my game for all-round improvement. It is a continuous process as I chase my dream of becoming a world champion,” added Harika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympiad-win-will-do-wonders-harika/article32500848.ece
02 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Marco Seruca’s holistic mantra for success in tennis||Departing from the norm in the Western world, coach Marco Seruca of Portugal stressed that meditation and mental training should begin right at the start, along with forehand and backhand drills, for a bright career in tennis. In a lively online interaction with coach Devinder Bhusari of Shaishya Tennis Academy, Seruca felt that players tended to express their real personality in crunch situations, and so it was important to mould the personality for a better game. “The stress is on physical skills. Most of the time, there is no attention to the mental aspect,” said Seruca, referring to the general eagerness of coaches to look for aggression and killer instinct in their athletes. “I feel exactly the opposite,” he said, before explaining his outlook. “There are two ways to success. One is to be rough, tough and ruthless. The second is to be fluid, natural, and go with the flow. It is much easier to do it the second way, as you don’t expend much energy.” Stating that being natural, adding good qualities to one’s personality and removing negative traits were the key to holistic development, Seruca pointed out that trying to do one’s best and “not trying to impose one’s game on the opponent” was the foundation of a good game. Seruca said that a performance-oriented approach was better than being focused on the target and being desperate to achieve it. He revealed that Germany had stopped its under-14 national competition to ensure better growth of the players. “Sometimes, parents don’t know how to help their kids. There is a need to educate parents about the right path,” he said, adding that a positive personality is needed to emerge stronger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marco-serucas-holistic-mantra-for-success-in-tennis/article32500762.ece
02 September 2020||Kolkata,||Rahul first choice ’keeper: Kumble||If a player is keeping wickets for 50-over games at a stretch, he ought to sight the ball better while batting. And K.L. Rahul is exactly doing that. Today, he is the first choice wicketkeeper for Team India in limited-overs and Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020. It will also be Rahul’s first IPL season as captain. “I think K.L. will obviously take up ‘keeping and then, we will take it from there,” former India captain and Kings XI head coach Anil Kumble told Sportstar on Tuesday. West Indies international Nicholas Pooran — who scored a 45-ball 100 in the Caribbean Premier League on Sunday — is the second ’keeper in the side. Good equation Kumble also feels his equation with Rahul over the years will help in decision-making. “It was very important to choose the captain [for the season]. I have known K.L., seen him as a young kid growing up in Bengaluru, and as a cricketer. It’s his first season as skipper but he knows the team better than me. He has played here for two seasons. I think we have all the ingredients to build a solid team,” he said. Rahul had kept wickets for Karnataka in the past but it was perhaps Kings XI that tuned him up as a smooth operator. The franchise had not picked a specialist ‘keeper in 2018 and the gloves were handed over to the explosive batsman instead. India speedster Mohammed Shami will lead the Kings XI pace attack in the IPL. Kumble is impressed with the right-armer’s net sessions in Dubai. Experience “Shami is the experienced guy here. He has been brilliant over the last five or six days. He will be able to pass on his thoughts to the youngsters. I am looking at him not just for his skills, but also for his thoughts and information,” he said.  It was very important to choose the captain [for the season]. I have known K.L., seen him as a young kid growing up in Bengaluru, and as a cricketer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-first-choice-keeper-kumble/article32500597.ece
02 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Will get used to playing in empty stadiums, says Virat Kohli||For Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) skipper Virat Kohli and other international cricketers, the sound of the cheering crowd is an integral part of their natural habitat. Things will be different, however, during the IPL, which will be played without spectators due to COVID-19 restrictions. Kohli believes that while the experience might be strange, players will get used to it in quick time. “It will be strange (to play without spectators), at least in the initial stages of the IPL. The echo of the ball hitting bat (in an empty stadium) — I haven’t heard that since playing in the Ranji Trophy in 2010. For 10 years now, I haven’t played a game without hearing the crowd,” Kohli said, in a RCB Bold Diaries interview. “But it is important for players to remember that we have played in empty stadiums at some stage in our lives. In those games, you just wanted to perform and play for the love of the game. Instincts will kick in once players are on the field, so the crowd factor will diminish quite quickly,” Kohli said. The star batsman called on his teammates to follow the safety guidelines of the bio-bubble — a point he made in the RCB virtual team meeting a few days ago as well. “The bio-bubble has to be respected at all times. We are not here to roam around in Dubai and have fun. Everyone must understand that it is a privilege to be a part of the IPL,” Kohli said. Quality time at home Speaking about the lockdown period he spent at home in India, Kohli said that he was more than happy to get quality time with his wife Anushka Sharma. “I didn’t miss cricket as much as I thought I would. I’d been playing cricket for 9-10 years straight before that, and this was the only break I was going to get. This was the longest that Anushka and I spent with each other since we started seeing each other. We didn’t feel the peer pressure to learn new skills or pick up new hobbies. Life had become slow; we accepted it,” Kohli said. The couple will soon welcome their first child. “It is an incredible feeling. It puts things in perspective. It is a beautiful feeling. When we announced it recently, we were showered with love. People were genuinely emotional and happy for us,” Kohli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-get-used-to-playing-in-empty-stadiums-says-virat-kohli/article32500595.ece
02 September 2020||Chennai,||Optimistic about CSK’s prospects: Viswanathan||These are not the easiest of times for Chennai Super Kings. The franchise’s CEO K.S. Viswanathan, though, was optimistic about the team’s prospects. Speaking to The Hindu from Dubai, where CSK is based, Viswanathan opted to look at the brighter side of things. “Out of the 13 from our group who have tested positive for COVID-19, only two [Deepak Chahar and Ruturaj Gaikwad] are players. The rest are net bowlers and members of the social media team,” he said. Test on Thursday The CSK players, apart from Chahar and Ruturaj, will undergo a COVID-19 test on Thursday. “If they clear that, they can start their practice sessions from Friday,” Viswanathan said. As for Chahar and Ruturaj, they have been quarantined from the team for two weeks — from the time they failed the COVID screening — and will have to undergo two more tests. Only if they clear them would the two be available for the tournament opener on September 19. The schedule of matches is not yet out but as per the norms, last year’s runner-up CSK will take on the winner, Mumbai Indians, to kick start the competition. Viswanathan said, “We are a confident group. We are ready to take on Mumbai Indians in the first game if that is what the schedule says.” Despite being hit by COVID-19 and then losing its star batsman Suresh Raina, Viswanathan said, “We are a happy team. We like challenges. Difficult situations bring the best out of us.” Viswanathan revealed that experienced off-spinner Harbhajan Singh, who was expected to reach Dubai on September 1, was yet to land in the UAE. “Harbhajan said he would let me know about his plans in a couple of days.” CSK is putting its pieces together after the early setbacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/optimistic-about-csks-prospects-viswanathan/article32500656.ece
02 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu to skip Uber Cup for ‘personal reasons’||World champion P.V. Sindhu has decided to pull out of the Thomas and Uber Cup badminton championships to be held from October 3 to 11 in Aarhus (Denmark). “Sindhu has informed the Badminton Association of India about her decision to skip the event because of some personal reasons,” a senior BAI official told The Hindu on Monday. Sindhu’s original plan to return to competitive sport was through the Thomas and Uber Cups. She has been extra cautious post the pandemic having separate training sessions at the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy here daily under the supervision of Korean coach Park Tae-Sang with chief national coach P. Gopi Chand also having a close look at the sessions. The ongoing National camp meant for the eight Olympic probables from August 3 has been attended only by Sindhu, former World No. 1 K. Srikanth, and World championship bronze medallist B. Sai Praneeth. London Olympics bronze medallist Saina Nehwal has been training at a private academy with husband P. Kashyap taking care of the sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-to-skip-uber-cup-for-personal-reasons/article32500602.ece
02 September 2020||MADRID,||First Clasico on Oct. 25||Barcelona will play Real Madrid in the first Clasico of the season at Camp Nou on October 25, after the LaLiga fixtures were announced on Monday. The first games of the new season will be played on the weekend of September 12. The two will then face each other at the Santiago Bernabeu on April 11, with Zinedine Zidane’s side looking to defend its league title it won in July. Barcelona is scheduled to start at home to Elche and Madrid at home to Getafe but both games will be rearranged to allow more rest for teams involved in last season’s European competitions, which only ended in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-clasico-on-october-25/article32500591.ece
02 September 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL teams ask for warm-up games||The IPL for the first time is likely to witness warm-up games between the participating franchises ahead of this season’s scheduled start on September 19. At least five franchise managements are understood to have requested the BCCI to organise warm-up games in the week leading up to the tournament. According to a franchise executive, the BCCI has been cagey and has said it will respond to the request “in a day or two”. The broadcaster has shown interest in either livestreaming or televising the games, should the BCCI give a go-ahead. Usually, all teams play simulation matches within the group ahead of IPL. With all the cricketers having played no competitive cricket since the COVID-19 outbreak brought the game to a standstill mid-March, the franchises have requested the BCCI for letting the teams play “serious warm-up games to get back into the groove”. An IPL insider revealed that the BCCI may leave it to the teams to figure it out among themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-teams-ask-for-warm-up-games/article32500660.ece
02 September 2020||QUITO,||Quito, Sept 1, 2020 (AFP) -||Sergio Lopez, who plays for Quito-based Aucas in Ecuador’s top-tier Liga Pro, was fined $1,200 on Monday for kissing the football in breach of hygiene rules brought in to combat the coronavirus. Five other players had been fined $1,200 for swapping shirts, which is also banned, in a match on August 16.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/quito-sept-1-2020-afp/article32500659.ece
02 September 2020||September 02 2020 07:44 IST,||Sudoku - September 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-2-2020/article32501275.ece
02 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Amarinder govt. failed to control COVID-19 situation, claim Akalis||A war of words has ensued between the ruling Congress government in Punjab and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) after a few village panchayats in the State passed resolutions asking COVID-19 patients to not seek treatment at government hospitals. After the Congress accused the party of inciting people with false propaganda surrounding the issue, Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal on Tuesday hit back saying that the government has completely failed to control the COVID-19 situation in the State and has lost the trust of the people. “Following COVID-19, the State government had convened an all-party meeting. I had assured the government of all support to fight the pandemic, which the Akali Dal workers had been sincerely extending... But today, I am sorry to say that the government has completely failed to control the situation. There have been several reports of people not getting beds in government hospitals and of a shortage of ventilators,” said Mr. Badal in a video message. ‘Lost faith’ Mr. Badal said people have lost faith in the ruling government and that several panchayats have passed resolutions asking people to remain at home instead of going to government hospitals. “The government is completely indifferent towards the problems being faced by the people. COVID-19 cases are continuously rising and if immediate and effective steps are not taken by the government, the situation could worsen. I demand Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to lead from the front to save the people,” he added.  Minister slams SAD Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu earlier slammed the party and accused it of making provocative statements with regard to the panchayat resolutions, further accusing it of encouraging the villagers to risk their lives by inciting them against the State government amid the pandemic. “The entire propaganda seemed to be part of a nefarious design to undermine the State government’s fight against COVID-19, of which the Akali leader seemed to have become a part,” said Mr. Sidhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-govt-failed-to-control-covid-19-situation-claim-akalis/article32500775.ece
02 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bars to open, s chools to remain shut in West Bengal||The West Bengal government has allowed bars to open in the State, outside containment zones, as the phase four of nationwide ‘Unlock’ is in progress. “Service of liquor for consumption may take place within any service area attached to a bar. Operating hours for liquor service will be according to the opening hours of food service in restaurants as specified by appropriate authorities in view of the pandemic situation,” an order issued by the State’s Excise Department said. School closed till Sept.30 The order also added that bars will be required to make adequate arrangements to ensure strict adherence to social distancing norms, such as hand hygiene, frequent sanitisation and wearing of masks. The West Bengal government has extended lockdown in containment zones till September 30. It has also decided to keep school and colleges closed till September 30 and will observe complete lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12. Meanwhile, the State recorded 2,943 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 1,65,721. It also recorded 55 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 3,283 in the State. Of the 55 deaths , 11 were from Kolkata, taking the toll in the city to 1,301. North 24 Parganas recorded 12 deaths, taking the total number of people who died in the district to 751.   Discharge rate improves With more people getting discharged in the past 24 hours than the number of infections, the discharge rate of the State improved to 83.04% .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bars-to-open-s-chools-to-remain-shut-in-west-bengal/article32500778.ece
02 September 2020||Guwahati,||Assam Foreigners’ Tribunals have 83,000 pending cases||The State government said on Monday that 83,008 cases of doubtful or D-voters were pending across the 100 Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs) in Assam. D-voters are a category of people struck off Assam’s electoral rolls by the Election Commission on suspicion of being foreigners. Their cases are referred to the FTs, which judge their citizenship. To a question by Congress MLA Zakir Hussain Sikdar, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told the 126-member House that the Sorbhog Assembly constituency in Barpeta district has the highest pending cases at 7,776. Among the districts, Kamrup (Metro) covering much of Guwahati has the most such cases (6,406). Rejection slips Mr. Patowary said the government had appointed 221 former judges, retired bureaucrats and lawyers as members for heading 200 new FTs sanctioned. “The new tribunals have not been able to start working,” he said. Apart from the COVID-19 restrictions, they have not been functional because of the delay in issuing rejection slips to 19.06 lakh people excluded from the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC). The complete NRC containing the names of 3.11 crore out of 3.3 crore applicants was published on August 31, 2019. The 19.06 lakh people were to have been issued rejection slips for approaching the FTs within 120 days for deciding the status of their citizenship. The Assam government had in February said the State had 1.13 lakh D-voters. It also said 4,32,944 cases were registered against suspected foreigners between 1985 and 2019. “After verification and trials, 1,26,998 people were declared foreigners, 1,18,367 were found to be Indians and 29,890 were deported. At the last count, there were 1,13,738 D-voters,” Mr. Patowary had told the Assembly in February. The D-voters who fail to establish their citizenship at the FTs are housed in six detention centres along with those declared foreigners by the same FTs on the basis of cases referred by the State police’s Border wing tasked specifically with detecting and detaining suspected foreigners. The detention centres house 425 ‘foreigners’. Officials said the cases against 83,008 of the 1.13 lakh D-voters detected earlier this year remain to be heard. NRC re-verification The Assam government also said it was firm on its demand of 10-20% re-verification of names included in the complete NRC. “We had given an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying there should be re-verification of 20% included names in the districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the rest of the districts. We need a re-verification because people of Assam want the correct NRC,” Mr. Patowary said. He said 227 ‘foreigners’ have been deported from March 13, 2013 to July 31 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-foreigners-tribunals-have-83000-pending-cases/article32500785.ece
02 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||19.6 kg of ivory seized in Odisha||The Odisha Forest Department has seized ivory weighing 19.6 kg in Keonjhar district and intensified its investigation into the network of wildlife poachers and traders in the State. On being tipped off about a group trying to sell off elephant tusks, Keonjhar Wildlife Division, Anandapur, formed a team to blow the lid off the traders’ network. “Our dedicated team assumed the role of buyer of the ivory stock. They kept on negotiating with the group for more than two months. After we were able to convince them, they got ready for a transaction,” said Ajit Satpathy, Divisional Forest Officer of Keonjhar Wildlife Division, Anandapur. Three persons were arrested and a new car was seized at Bahiapita village under the Harichandanpur police station where the transaction was to take place. Fourteen pieces of tusks were recovered from them. “Preliminary interrogation revealed that they were neither poachers nor traders. They were intermediaries who were trying to earn a quick buck,” Mr. Satpathy said. He said the division had benefited from the improvement in the level of trust between officials and forest dwellers, and information on the movement of poachers and timber smugglers was being received seamlessly.  ‘Mortality rate rising’ According the Wildlife Society of Orissa (WSO), an environmental pressure group, elephant mortality rate is rising alarmingly as the average percentage deaths per year had shot up to 78% since 2010, compared with 33% from 1990 to 2000, and 46% from 2000 to 2010. While 463 elephant deaths were recorded during the period 2000 to 2010, the number rose sharply to 784 elephant deaths in the period 2010 to 2020, it said. “Of the 784 deaths in the last ten years, 281 (36%) elephants died an unnatural death, and in 160 (20%) cases the cause of death could not be ascertained primarily due to finding of bodies in highly decomposed state. One could conclude that nearly 50% of the elephant mortality in Odisha is unnaturally caused,” said Biswajit Mohanty, WSO’s secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/196-kg-of-ivory-seized-in-odisha/article32500780.ece
02 September 2020||Agartala,||Fresh restrictions in Agartala as cases rise||The Tripura government has ordered the police and the West district administration to strictly enforce restrictions in Agartala, where the COVID-19 situation has deteriorated over the past one week. The government has extended the duration of night curfew in the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) area by one hour (8 p.m. to 5 a.m.) and reimposed Section 144 in the entire district. The State on Monday had recorded the highest single-day spike of cases and deaths. Most of them were reported from the AMC area. Tripura recorded 12,137 infections and 112 deaths till Monday and health officials are anticipating a further spike in the coming days. The State stands second in northeast India after Assam in terms of number of cases as well as mortalities. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, who holds the health portfolio, recently appealed to people to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines. The health department on Tuesday launched a rapid antigen test drive in all the municipal wards of the capital city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fresh-restrictions-in-agartala-as-cases-rise/article32500783.ece
02 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Ex-Punjab DGP’s bail plea dismissed||A local Mohali court on Tuesday dismissed the bail plea of former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the case relating to disappearance and murder of a man in 1991. The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg dismissed the bail plea of Mr. Saini, who had filed an anticipatory bail plea in the case, said Special Public Prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula. Mr. Saini had moved the bail application after the Punjab Police’s Special Investigation Team had last month added Section 302 of IPC (murder) in the case, in which the ex-DGP and six other accused have been booked in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-punjab-dgps-bail-plea-dismissed/article32500776.ece
02 September 2020||Guwahati,||Gogoi stable after dip in oxygen level||The condition of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi, who tested positive for COVID-19 on August 26, was declared stable after a sudden dip in oxygen level on Monday night. The 85-year-old three-time Chief Minister was shifted to the dedicated Covid Care Centre at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on August 27. “He was on oxygen for some time but the requirement is much less now. He was also given plasma therapy,” State Congress spokesperson Rhituparna Konwar said on Tuesday afternoon. Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had visited GMCH after doctors reported a drop in Mr. Gogoi’s oxygen level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gogoi-stable-after-dip-in-oxygen-level/article32500781.ece
