03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM asks States to suggest plan for staggered end to lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at his second videoconference with Chief Ministers, on Thursday told them that it was “important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once the lockdown ends”. Mr. Modi emphasised that the collective goal of all should be to “save every Indian”. He asked the States to brainstorm and send suggestions for the exit strategy. He listed certain “must do steps” that need to be taken as the nation entered the second week of the total lockdown. “Our first priority for the next few weeks should be testing, tracing, isolating and quarantine. For this, all State to district level efforts must be coordinated,” he pointed out. Mr. Modi urged that district-level disease surveillance officers should be appointed as soon as possible to make sure that penetration of this strategy is optimum. Data collected from private laboratories allowed to test should be collated district-wise to be utilised for further strategising on tackling the pandemic. In his opening remarks, he emphasised that the supply lines for medical equipment and drugs and raw materials needed for the manufacture of these products need to be kept seamless, even more than supplies of other products. Separate hospitals “Every State should ensure that there are separate hospitals for COVID-19 patients, and the doctors attending to them need to be protected. I would also urge you to step up online training of doctors in the treatment of COVID-19,” he said. This being the harvest season in many parts of the country, farmers and labourers, exempted from the lockdown, were engaged in harvest operations and they should maintain some physical distancing even on fields. “As for procurement, we must find ways to do it beyond the route of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). A truck pooling scheme should also be worked out with farmers for ferrying produce to the market. Harvesting will possibly need to be done in a staggered manner,” he is reported to have said. The Centre would release Rs. 11,000 crore from the State Disaster Relief Fund by this month, and it should be used for efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-asks-states-to-suggest-plan-for-staggered-end-to-lockdown/article31242814.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,||CM seeks Rs. 3,000 crore to procure equipment||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allocate Rs. 3,000 crore for procuring personal protective equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and ventilators in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. During a videoconference with the Prime Minister, Mr. Palaniswami sought an increase in the supply of test kits to the State. An official release said Mr. Palaniswami reiterated his demand for allocation of Rs. 9,000 crore and raising of the fiscal deficit limit of 3% of GSDP for 2020-21 as a one-time measure. “To meet the additional expenditure arising due to this pandemic, additional borrowing of 33% above the permitted level for 2019-20 may be allowed for 2020-21,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami urged the Centre to release in advance the grants due to States in 2020-21 as well as 50% of the Finance Commission grants to urban and rural local bodies, besides 50% of the revenue deficit grant. The GST compensation due for December-January 2019-20 and grants under the National Health Mission should also be released immediately, he said. “The ways and means limit of the States, which was increased by 30% by the RBI, should be doubled,” Mr. Palaniswami added. Inter-State transport, except for the movement of goods, had been stopped, the availability of essential commodities during the lockdown had been ensured, about 2.10 lakh international passengers had been screened and 77,330 of them put under home quarantine for 28 days, he stated. The Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar in Chennai and Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital had been declared COVID-19 hospitals, the CM said. Apart from this, one hospital in each district had been identified and provided with treatment facilities for COVID-19. ‘A.P. waging war’ Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy informed Mr. Modi during the videoconference that the State government had set up hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Nellore with a total ICU bed strength of 444 and 2,012 non-ICU beds, exclusively for COVID-19 patients. Besides, special arrangements were made in district hospitals with 622 ICU beds, 10,933 non-ICU beds and 20,000 beds kept ready to put people in isolation. Mr. Jagan said a total of 27,876 returnees from abroad had been identified since February 10. Of them, 10,540 were from urban areas and 17,336 from villages. They had 80,896 contacts and all were being monitored. Those who participated in the religious meet at Nizamuddin were sent to quarantine and their contacts were being traced. About 1,085 persons had attended the event. He put the total number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 at 135 in Andhra Pradesh, including 91 persons who went to Nizamuddin and 20 who had contacts with them. The State’s finances had been severely hit due to the lockdown, as a result of which the government ordered deferment of salaries and other payments, Mr. Jagan said, urging Mr. Modi to note the tremendous pressure on revenue streams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-seeks-rs-3000-crore-to-procure-equipment/article31242911.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||9,000 with Tablighi Jamaat link sent into quarantine||At least 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their primary contacts have been quarantined across the country after the sect’s headquarters in Nizamuddin, New Delhi, emerged as a hotspot of novel coronavirus, the government said on Thursday. Around 500 COVID-19 cases in the country are linked to a gathering of Indian and foreign members of the organisation last month. The number in Delhi alone stood at 182 on Thursday, when 129 more people from the centre tested positive and two died. The government has cancelled the visas of 960 foreigners who participated in the meeting. They have been blacklisted, and legal action under the Foreigners Act and the Disaster Management Act against them will follow, a tweet from the office of the Union Home Minister said. There are 1,306 foreigners among the 9,000 in quarantine, Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary in the Ministry, told reporters. Around 250 of them were at the Delhi centre when the authorities evacuated it this week, but the rest had fanned out to other parts of the country. A total of 2,346 people were evacuated and 536 were sent to hospitals and 1,810 were quarantined in an operation on Wednesday, the Delhi government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9000-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-sent-into-quarantine/article31242818.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||An uphill task to trace contacts of Delhi returnees||As the task of tracing Delhi returnees was accomplished, Telangana police are now occupied with a bigger challenge of identifying primary and secondary contacts of participants of Tablighi Jammat meet in Delhi. In fact, it is turning out to be a complex job when a Delhi returnee is tested positive. The strategy adopted by the official machinery so far was to trace the Delhi returnee and lookout for his close and casual contacts. After sending the Delhi returnees to hospitals for quarantine, the police along with other department officials are asking family members to quarantine themselves at home. The moment a Delhi returnee tests positive, the task becomes tougher for the police. “Now, we have to collect samples of all his family members and start identifying his casual contacts,” a police officer explained. Jangaon contact In Janagon district’s Narmetta area, a villager who had returned from Delhi meeting tested positive for COVID-19. “He is a meat seller and sold meat in the village for two days after his return. After speaking with him, it was found that he had casual contacts with nearly 69 people in the village,” the police said. This included people who purchased meat from him. Now, all these 69 persons are being put in quarantine and their samples are being collected to confirm whether they contracted the virus. “We thought tracing all those who attended Delhi meeting was a big task. More than that, identifying their primary and secondary contacts is crucial and tougher,” say field-level police officers. Even putting all Delhi returnees in quarantine in hospitals is not easy. Police adopted the strategy of counselling them, convincing their families by counting on local leaders. Soon after getting information about the returnees, local police teams accompanied by staff of medical and municipal wings rushed to their houses. They counselled the persons. “In some cases, we had to speak with their family members and impress upon them the need to get them quarantined,” the police officers said. In other cases, the authorities involved local community leaders to speak with the Delhi returnees. With reports of more Delhi returnees testing positive, they are getting ready for the exercise of finding close and casual contacts of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-uphill-task-to-trace-contacts-of-delhi-returnees/article31243105.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Release Rs. 1 lakh crore to States, Gehlot suggests to Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday that the Centre release Rs. 1 lakh crore to States to enable them to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and the ramifications of the nationwide lockdown. The grant could be based on the number of patients in each State, its population or the GST Council’s guidelines, Mr. Gehlot said during Mr. Modi’s videoconference with Chief Ministers. Mr. Gehlot proposed that the borrowing limit of States should be increased by 2% so that the people felt comfortable. “The States also expect a moratorium on the payment of their dues to the financial institutions under RBI. These should be deferred,” he said. The Rajasthan CM also raised the issue of MGNREGA workers with the Prime Minister, saying that the government must consider giving these workers an advance payment during the lockdown period.  ‘Bihar short of PPE’ Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the State had asked for 10 lakh N95 masks but received only 50,000. After seeking five lakh PPE kits, Bihar has received 4,000; and against a demand for 100 ventilators, the State is yet to get a single one, he said. “Whatever decision the Prime Minister has taken to fight coronavirus, we’re following it,” Mr. Kumar was quoted as saying in a release. “Though some problem had cropped up earlier as people were sent from Delhi during lockdown, all those who came here were taken to their homes and are being provided medicine, food and being quarantined,” the statement said. A total of 1,70,470 people had come to Bihar from outside the State, of whom 12,051 had travelled from overseas. All are being kept under home quarantine, the statement said. On his part, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said that his government had decided to roll out telemedicine services in the State immediately since people are unable to visit hospitals. Apprising Mr. Modi of the situation in Indore, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the city had a dedicated hospital to help combat the disease. Similar arrangements were in place in Bhopal too. Mr. Chouhan informed the Prime Minister that in the form of “alternative treatment”, AYUSH medicines were also being given in Madhya Pradesh. Around six lakh persons had been administered such medicines. In addition, to boost immunity, homoeopathy medicines were given to 17,50,000 individuals. Sources in the Odisha Chief Minister’s Office said several queries during the interaction pertained to the possibility of the lockdown being extended, with many Chief Ministers stating that it was affecting the economy. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee skipped the interaction, deputing their Chief Secretaries instead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-rs-1-lakh-crore-to-states-gehlot-suggests-to-modi/article31243036.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Geo-fencing app will be used to locate quarantine violators||The Centre is using powers under the Indian Telegraph Act to “fetch information” from telecom companies every 15 minutes to track COVID-19 cases across the country. The government has tested an application that triggers e-mails and SMS alerts to an authorised government agency if a person has jumped quarantine or escaped from isolation, based on the person’s mobile phone’s cell tower location. The “geo-fencing” is accurate by up to 300 m, a government communication said. Used by Kerala Kerala was one of the first States to use geo-fencing to track COVID-19 cases. On March 29, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) shared a standard operating procedure (SOP) with all telecom service providers regarding the application called COVID-19 Quarantine Alert System (CQAS). The system will collate phone data, including the device’s location, on a common secured platform and alert the local agencies in case of a violation by COVID-19 patients under watch or in isolation. Secure network The SOP says that the DoT and C-DOT, in coordination with telecom service providers, have developed and tested the application. It said the location information is received periodically over a secure network for the authorised cases with “due protection of the data received”. The States have been asked to seek the approval of their Home Secretaries under the provisions of Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, for the specified mobile phone numbers to request the DoT to provide information by email or SMS in case of violation of “geo-fencing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/geo-fencing-app-will-be-used-to-locate-quarantine-violators/article31242822.ece
03 April 2020||LAHORE,||Conviction of four accused in Daniel Pearl case overturned||The Sindh High Court on Thursday overturned the conviction of four persons accused of kidnapping and killing Daniel Pearl, a reporter of Wall Street Journal , in Pakistan for lack of evidence. “No evidence has been brought on record by the prosecution to link any of the appellants to the murder of Pearl, and as such, all the appellants are acquitted of murder u/s 302 PPC,” said the court in its judgment. The main accused, British-Pakistani Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh who was on death row for the murder, was found guilty of a lesser charge of kidnapping and sentenced to seven years in prison and a fine of Rs. 2 million to be paid to Pearl’s widow and his orphaned son, who was born after the murder. Sheikh has been in custody since 2002. The seven-year prison sentence will be counted as served as he has been in prison for 18 years. The incident came three years after Sheikh, along with Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar and Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar, was released by India in 1999 and given safe passage to Afghanistan in exchange for the nearly 150 passengers of hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814. He was serving a prison term in India for kidnappings of Western tourists in the country. Pearl was Wall Street Journal ’s South Asia Bureau Chief. He was working on a story about links between religious extremists in Karachi and ‘show-bomber’ Richard Reid, who tried to blow up a passenger plane. Pearl went missing in January 2002 from Karachi. A month later, a video of his beheading was delivered to the U.S. Consulate in Karachi. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/conviction-of-four-accused-in-daniel-pearl-case-overturned/article31242816.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State waging all-out war against coronavirus: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh during a videoconference on Thursday that the State government has set up hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Nellore with a total ICU bed strength of 444 and with 2,012 non-ICU beds to exclusively cater to people infected by coronavirus. Besides, special arrangements were made in the district hospitals with 622 ICU beds and 10,933 non-ICU beds and 20,000 beds were kept ready to put people in home isolation.  Strict vigil Mr. Jagan said a total of 27,876 foreign returnees had been identified since February 10. Of them, 10,540 were from urban areas and 17,336 from villages. They had total 80,896 contacts and all of them were under surveillance. Those who participated in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin were sent to quarantine and their contacts were being traced. The government found that 1,085 persons travelled to Nizamuddin. The Chief Minister pegged the total number of confirmed cases of COVID at 135, including 91 persons who went to Nizamuddin and 20 contacted with them. The government was following a cluster containment strategy and there was a need for additional supplies of test kits and personal protection equipment, he pointed out. Mr. Jagan further explained the steps taken to avoid any major inconvenience to people during the lockdown. He said rythu bazaars were decentralised to ensure that people maintained social distance and the police were keeping a tight vigil on the streets to prevent large gatherings. The government organised 218 rehabilitation camps where 9,695 people, including 5,876 belonging to other States, were given shelter. As the State’s finances crumbled due to the economic consequences of the lockdown, the government ordered deferment of salaries and other payments to ease the situation a bit, Mr. Jagan said, urging Mr. Modi to note that the State was under tremendous pressure as its revenue streams were drying up because of the impact of the lockdown on businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-waging-all-out-war-against-coronavirus-jagan/article31242805.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,||1,000 persons linked to Tablighi Jamaat screened in State||As many as 1,000 people linked to Tablighi Jamaat have been screened in the State so far and of these, 10 who attended the congregation and another primary contact of a participant tested positive on Thursday. A total of 14 new cases have been reported, taking the total number to 124. These include three deaths and 11 persons who have been discharged. While 10 of the 14 are from Bidar, a primary contact of the participant of the congregation is from Kalaburagi. That apart, two more cases have been reported from Mysuru and one from Ballari, according to the Health Department’s bulletin. Earlier in the day, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said 1,000 were screened based on inputs given by police and Central government. Meanwhile, in the context of COVID-19 emergency, doctors, nurses and paramedical staff (clinical and non-clinical), who were to retire on March 31 have been given an extension of three months in their service. According to an order by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), on Thursday, a two-month extension has also been given to those who are due to retire on April 31. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa attended a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday and announced that a task force will be set up to look into precautions to be taken after the lockdown ends on April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1000-persons-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-screened-in-state/article31242854.ece
03 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||2 Tablighi returnees among 21 new cases||The State has reported 21 more new COVID-19 positive cases. These include two persons who had attended the meetings at Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddeen, Delhi, and are currently in quarantine in the State. Another new development is the inclusion of seven districts in the State, including Thiruvananthapuram, on the list of “potential COVID-19 hotspots” identified by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The other districts are Kasaragod, Kannur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thrissur. Briefing media here on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that of the 21 new cases, nine were imported infections from abroad, nine were primary contacts of various imported cases, one was a person who had come from Gujarat and the other two were those who had attended the Tablighi meetings. Eight of these cases are located in Kasaragod, five in Idukki, two in Kollam and one case each in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur. He said the government had collected the details of 157 persons from the State who had attended the Tablighi meetings, all of whom are currently in quarantine. One of the Nizamuddeen-returnee who tested positive is in Thodupuzha district hospital, while the other one is in Kollam Government Medical College, Parippally. 286 cases in State The State has till date reported 286 COVID-19 cases. At present, 256 of these patients are in various hospitals. Two deaths aside, 26 patients have completely recovered and have been discharged. Mr. Vijayan said 200 out of the 286 cases reported so far were imported cases, while 76 persons were primary contacts. Seven were foreign tourists who had tested positive while touring in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-tablighi-returnees-among-21-new-cases/article31243182.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus cases double in India in five days||The number of COVID-19 cases in India has doubled in the past week, with 328 more cases and 12 deaths reported on Thursday. The tally now stands at 2,069 cases, with 53 deaths and 155 cured of the novel coronavirus infection. The Health Ministry said there were reports of several doctors, nurses and paramedics testing positive. The number of cases increased sharply from 909 this weekend, and the Health Ministry confirmed that it was looking at tweaking the testing protocol, with a rapid anti-body test in hot-spots, where those indicating a positive would be sent for confirmation and the others would be quarantined. “We will be releasing the details soon,” R. Gangakhedkar, head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases-I, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said at a press conference. The Health Ministry said extensive action was being taken in Asia’s largest slum, Dharavi in Mumbai, after a death due to COVID-19 was reported there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virus-cases-double-in-india-in-five-days/article31242820.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Restrictions on fishing partially lifted in State||Restrictions on fishing have been partially lifted in the State with the government allowing country craft to venture into the sea from April 4 to ensure the livelihood of fishermen and food security. However, the easing of curbs will not be applicable to Kasaragod in view of the large number of COVID-19 cases there. Trawlers and fishing using gill nets (kambavala) and boat siene (thattamadi) would remain banned, Minister for Fisheries and Harbour Engineering J. Mercykutty Amma told a press conference on Thursday. The fishermen have been allowed to sell their catch without going for open auction. Henceforth, the price of fish will be decided by the Harbour Management Society headed by the respective District Collector. The price of fish will be fixed daily depending on its availability. The Fisheries Department has developed IT application to enable hassle-free selling of fish through advanced booking. Vehicles will be allowed entry into the harbour for purchase of fish on the basis of the booking. Overcrowding Overcrowding will not be allowed in fishing harbours and fish landing centres. For those engaged in small business, market points will be worked out and Matsyafed will make available fish at these points. But, the quantity of fish needed will have to be intimated to the society in advance. The fish markets will function from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-on-fishing-partially-lifted-in-state/article31243176.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Alarm as tally goes up to 149 in State||The State reported 149 COVID-19 positive cases as of Thursday evening and most of them are related to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi. With the authorities reaching out to a majority of the Delhi returnees and their contacts in the State during the past two days, more samples were collected and positive cases surged in most of the districts causing panic among people. Nellore district reported 24 positive cases, the highest in the State, followed by Krishna with 23 positive cases. In Vijayawada, five of a family connected to the Jamaat hotspot tested positive. The area surrounding their house at Gupta Centre Colony of Kummaripalem was declared a containment zone and a high alert was sounded. Guntur reported 20 positive cases, Prakasam 17 cases and Kadapa 18 cases. They are followed by West Godavari (15), Visakhapatnam (11), Chittoor (9), East Godavari (9), Anantapur (2) and Kurnool (1). Over 1,873 samples were collected and 1,321 samples tested negative while results of 409 samples were awaited. Meanwhile, the State increased its capacity of testing from 450 samples per day to 570 samples per day by adding two more laboratories in Guntur and Kadapa which will start functioning from Friday and Sunday respectively. One more testing centre is going to come up soon in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alarm-as-tally-goes-up-to-149-in-state/article31242810.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS doctor and wife test positive for COVID-19||A resident doctor of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, and his nine-month pregnant wife have tested positive for COVID-19, according to a source at the hospital. “The doctor posted at the Physiology Department of AIIMS was the first to show symptoms and later his wife was also brought in and both have tested positive,” said the source. The other family/close work contacts of the couple have been isolated and screened, the source added. The AIIMS administration noted that contact tracing protocol has been started in the cases. In another development, a senior CRPF doctor, working as the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) at a Delhi-based hospital of the force, has tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Thursday. The doctor has been admitted to AIIMS in Haryana’s Jhajjar. He was currently posted at the office of the Additional Director General (medical) of the Central Armed Police Forces. Infection source unclear The medical officer reported cough, fever and breathing problems on March 30 and his samples came positive on Thursday, a senior official said. It was not immediately clear how the doctor contracted the infection. He was staying at a transit officers’ mess of the CRPF in south Delhi’s Saket area, the officials said. The mess has since been sanitised and orders issued to immediately quarantine the staff and guests/officers living there.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiims-doctor-and-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31243030.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||27 more test positive for COVID-19 in Telangana||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Telangana has gone up to 128 as 27 more COVID-19 positive cases were confirmed on Thursday. This is the second highest number of cases reported in a day. On Wednesday, 30 positive cases and three deaths due to the infectious disease were reported. Three persons who were isolated at government hospitals were discharged. Out of 154 COVID-19 cases detected in the State till April 2, 128 are active cases, 17 were discharged and nine died. Officials said that at least two more people are expected to be discharged in the next few days. The highest of 11 patients were discharged from Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda. The COVID-19 patients are admitted at Gandhi Hospital, Government General and Chest Hospital, District Hospital in King Koti. COVID-19 suspects are admitted to the three hospitals and Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases. Meanwhile, Gandhi Hospital was selected as the health facility where COVID-19 patients in need of dialysis would undergo the treatment. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued guidelines on Wednesday in which States and Union Territories were asked to identify and earmark at least one haemodialysis facility with adequate number of dialysis machines, trained staff, reverse osmosis (RO) water system and other support equipment as preparatory fixed-point dialysis unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/27-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-telangana/article31243103.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Five more named as members of task force||The Tamil Nadu government has added five more members — a microbiologist, a Siddha physician, an epidemiologist and two senior government officials — to the task force headed by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. It was formed to monitor measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Public Department issued a Government Order to add Dr. S.P. Thiyagarajan, microbiologist and former vice chancellor, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research; Dr. G. Sivaraman, senior Siddha physician and member of the National Siddha Pharmacopoeia Committee; and Dr. Guhanandam, epidemiologist (retired) of the Greater Chennai Corporation; to the task force. Dr. K. Gopal, Principal Secretary, Fisheries Department, and Dr. B. Chandramohan, Principal Secretary, Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department, have also been named to the task force. “The officers are requested to attend the meetings of the task force as and when convened to review the measures taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” the G.O. said. With this addition, the task force now has 25 members. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the constitution of the task force in the Assembly in mid-March.  The officers are requested to attend the meetings of the task force as and when convened||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-more-named-as-members-of-task-force/article31242912.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,||State challenges Kerala HC order in Supreme Court||The State government on Thursday challenged in the Supreme Court the Kerala High Court April 1 order directing the Union government to immediately remove blockades erected by Karnataka on the national highways connecting Kerala to facilitate free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment, across the border between the two States. In its special leave petition (SLP), Karnataka contended that the Kerala High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain a petition, filed by Kerala High Court Advocates’ Association, on a subject matter falling within the limits of Karnataka. As the issue is between the two States over blockade of the border by one of the States, it is only the Supreme Court that has the jurisdiction to go into the dispute, it was contended on behalf of Karnataka government with a plea for urgent hearing of the SLP. Kerala HC order In its order, the Kerala High Court had observed that the Karnataka government cannot contend that it was not obliged to respect the fundamental right of a citizen who resides outside its territorial limit. “We sincerely hope that the Government of Karnataka will take note of the said basic principles enshrined in our Constitution and take immediate steps to resolve the present stalemate,” the Kerala High Court had observed while issuing a specific direction to the Union government to remove blockade as the national highways come under the administrative jurisdiction of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-challenges-kerala-hc-order-in-supreme-court/article31242853.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Cong. seeks more relief||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) held its first-ever virtual meeting on Thursday to discuss the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, where party president Sonia Gandhi asked the Union government to come out with a “common minimum relief programme”. The unplanned lockdown caused “chaos and pain for migrant workers”, she said.page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-seeks-more-relief/article31242811.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Supply of essentials hit’||With transportation and supply woes continuing, there is concern over depleting reserves of essentials. “Demand for movement of essential goods is increasing. But supply is not even close to matching it,” Abhishek Gupta, managing director, Prakash Parcel Services Ltd said. “Instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs to allow trucks to operate has not gone down yet in many places,” he said.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supply-of-essentials-hit/article31242812.ece
03 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Bus driver allegedly beaten by U.P. police||A Haryana Roadways bus driver, who was asked to drop migrants returning home during the lockdown, was allegedly thrashed by Uttar Pradesh police on the outskirts of Lucknow for merely asking for directions. Khurshid Ahmed was taking the migrants to Gorakhpur from Ghaziabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-driver-allegedly-beaten-by-up-police/article31243034.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees biggest single-day jump in cases||Two deaths and 141 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to four and total cases to 293, an increase of 92.7% from Wednesday, said the city government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-in-cases/article31243032.ece
03 April 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. breaches 100 mark, two deaths reported||A man and a woman from Indore died of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the toll owing to the illness to five in the city. Madhya Pradesh reported nine new cases during the day, said Principal Secretary, Health, Pallavi Jain Govil. Bhopal reported four new cases. The State count stands at 111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-breaches-100-mark-two-deaths-reported/article31243033.ece
03 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||Three more containment zones in Coimbatore||With 28 fresh cases of COVID-19 being confirmed on Wednesday, three more containment zones have been demarcated in Coimbatore. The number of containment zones rose to six, and the total number of positive cases stood at 34.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-more-containment-zones-in-coimbatore/article31242966.ece
03 April 2020||YADGIR,||Free LPG cylinders for three months||Beneficiaries under the Prime Minister’s Ujjwala Yojana (PMUJ) will get free LPG cylinders for three months — April, May and June — in view of the lockdown, according to Yadgir district nodal officer of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited P. Ratnakar Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-lpg-cylinders-for-three-months/article31243083.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,||E-offices keep things going as usual||The paperless office concept has come in handy for several government departments in the time of COVID-19. The e-office platform, which currently has 330 offices on board, has ensured that work goes on with little interruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-offices-keep-things-going-as-usual/article31242858.ece
03 April 2020||Vijayapura,||Long and gruelling road did not take them home||It took five gruelling days for Mohammed Nadeem and four of his friends to reach Vijayapura from Bengaluru, which is about 500 km away. Their hopes of going back to their home town, Alighar in Uttar Pradesh, are on hold for now, as they are spending time at a temporary shelter in Vijayapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/long-and-gruelling-road-did-not-take-them-home/article31242856.ece
03 April 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru barbers ready to offer ‘home service’||Is haircutting an essential service during COVID-19 lockdown? The answer will be known in a day or two as neighbourhood hairdressers and traditional barbers in Mysuru have sought ‘pass’ from the district administration and the police to offer “home service”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-barbers-ready-to-offer-home-service/article31242857.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,||Incentives announced for making COVID-19 drugs||The State government has announced a special incentive to promote manufacture of COVID-19-related medical equipment and drugs. These include ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks, multi-para monitors, anti-malarial and anti-viral drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/incentives-announced-for-making-covid-19-drugs/article31242913.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,||11.63% cardholders get cash, grain on day one||Amid reports of violation of physical distancing norms in certain places of the State and the alleged involvement of members of the ruling AIADMK, the distribution of Rs. 1,000 cash and free rice, pulses, edible oil and sugar to ration cardholders began on Thursday, to mitigate the adverse impact of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1163-cardholders-get-cash-grain-on-day-one/article31242915.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO develops bio suit, sealant for safety gear||In a major breakthrough, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a special sealant as an alternative to seam sealing tape which is critical in personal protective equipment (PPE). A bio suit was also developed to keep medical and other personnel engaged in combating COVID-19 safe from the deadly virus, the Defence Ministry said on Thursday. “The DRDO has prepared a special sealant as an alternative to seam sealing tape based on the sealant used in submarine applications. Presently, bio suits prepared using this glue for seam sealing by an industry partner has cleared test at the Southern India Textile Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore,” the Ministry said in a statement. It said bio suit production in the country by DRDO industry partners and other industries was being hampered due to non-availability of seam sealing tapes. The DRDO can mass produce this glue through the industry to support the seam sealing activity by suit manufacturers. Technology transfer At present, Kusumgarh Industries, with technology transfer from the DRDO, is producing the raw material, coating material, and the complete suit is being manufactured with the help of another vendor, the statement said. “The current production capacity is 7,000 suits per day,” the Ministry said. Another vendor with experience in garment technology is being brought in and efforts are on to ramp up the capacity to 15,000 suits a day, the Ministry stated. The bio suit has been subjected to rigorous testing for textile parameters as well as protection against infection from synthetic blood. “The protection against synthetic blood exceeds the criteria defined for body suits by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” the statement said. Separately, Naval Dockyard, Mumbai, has designed and developed its own handheld Infra Red (IR) based temperature sensor for screening at its entry gates, which have an average influx of around 20,000 personnel every day. The instrument has been manufactured through in-house resources at a cost of under Rs. 1000, a fraction of the cost of the temperature guns in the market, the Navy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-develops-bio-suit-sealant-for-safety-gear/article31242752.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Congress demands relief plan||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Thursday had its first-ever virtual meeting to discuss the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, where party chief Sonia Gandhi asked the Union government to come out with a “common minimum relief programme”, and asserted that the unplanned lockdown caused “chaos and pain for migrant workers”. A statement from the CWC said “the Congress pledges to continue its unstinted support”, but pointed out the “grave shortcomings in the spirit of cooperation and constructive criticism”. “The CWC demands that the government should immediately appoint an economic task force consisting of world-renowned economists to suggest three plans: an emergency plan within one week; a short to medium-term plan within one month; and a medium to long-term plan within three months in order to protect and revive the economy,” All India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal and party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at an online media interaction. In her opening remarks to the CWC, Ms. Gandhi said, “The 21-day national lockdown may have been necessary but the unplanned manner in which it has been implemented has caused chaos and pain in the lives of millions of migrant workers all over India. It has been heartbreaking to see lakhs of people walking for hundreds of kilometres towards their villages without food or shelter.” The CWC stressed the urgent need to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) for health workers, relief to farmers, income support to informal workers and protection to middle class people from wage cuts and job losses. “I urge the Central government to prepare and publish a common minimum relief programme,” she said. While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh talked about the nation rallying as one to fight COVID-19, former party chief leader Rahul Gandhi, who had so far kept away from CWC meetings, talked about an Indian model to deal with the crisis. “At the Congress CWC meeting today I emphasised the urgent need to devise an India specific strategy to combat the #COVID19 Pandemic & for Congress workers & leaders to help soften the blow by assisting the poor & the most vulnerable sections of our society,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram talked about the inadequacy of the government’s financial action plan. “The government must shed its inhibitions and announce that it will fund the battle with Rs. 5-6 lakh crore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-demands-relief-plan/article31242705.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Health Ministry issues advisory to elderly||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday issued an advisory to the elderly in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, warning that the disease tends to be more severe among the elderly, resulting in higher mortality. The number of COVID-19 cases so far has risen to 1,764 and 50 deaths, as per the official database. Higher risk “Elderly people are at a higher risk of COVID-19 infection due to their decreased immunity and body reserves, as well as multiple associated co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,” said the Ministry in its guidelines. It asked the elderly to stay at home, avoid meeting visitors at home and if a meeting is essential, maintain a distance of one metre. The instructions include washing hands and face at regular intervals with soap and water, sneezing and coughing either into the elbow or into a tissue paper or handkerchief, disposing of the tissue paper after coughing or sneezing, washing the handkerchief after use and ensuring proper nutrition through home-cooked fresh hot meals, drinking water frequently and taking fresh juices to boost immunity. Elective surgery The elderly population has also been advised to postpone elective surgeries (if any) such as cataract surgery or total knee replacement as far as possible, do tele-consultation with their healthcare provider and not to go to crowded places such as parks, markets and religious places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-ministry-issues-advisory-to-elderly/article31242726.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF airlifts 6.2 tonnes of essential drugs to Maldives||An Indian Air Force (IAF) C-130J transport aircraft on Thursday delivered 6.2 tonne of essential medicines and hospital consumables to Maldives under Operation Sanjeevani. These medicines and consumables were procured from eight suppliers in India but couldn’t be transported through any other means due to the 21-day lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, an official statement said. “At the request of the government of Maldives, the IAF aircraft activated Operation Sanjeevani and lifted these medicines from airports in New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Madurai before flying to the Maldives,” the statement said, adding the Army facilitated the transport of these medicines and consumables from warehouses across India to the respective airports. Among other things, these medicines include influenza vaccines, anti-viral drugs such as lopinavir and ritonavir — which have been used to treat patients with COVID-19 in other countries —medicines for cardiac conditions, kidney ailments, hypertension, high blood pressure, diabetes, arthritis, allergies and cancer treatment, anticonvulsants, as well as as catheters, nebulisers, urine bags and infant feeding tubes, the statement added. Last month, India had dispatched a 14-member Army medical team to Maldives to set up a viral testing lab there. Cargo from China Air India has received China’s clearance to operate cargo flights to Shanghai and Hong Kong to help Indian pharmaceutical companies import personal protective equipment for frontline health workers. “We have secured requisite approvals from Shanghai for our flights on April 4 and 5 and await clearances for flights on April 6,7 and 8. Permissions have also been obtained for operations to Hong Kong,” said Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal. The flights are being operated on a commercial basis following requests from pharma firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-airlifts-62-tonnes-of-essential-drugs-to-maldives/article31242738.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,||Tablighi Jamaat: on a mission to ‘purify’ Islam||The Tablighi Jamaat, a little known Islamic organisation, has been at the centre of a controversy after dozens of people who attended a religious congregation held by it at its headquarters in Delhi in March tested positive for COVID-19. At least 2,000 people, both from across the country and foreign nations such as Indonesia and Malaysia, had attended the gathering in Nizamuddin that started in early March and went on for a couple of weeks. Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, leader of the group, has been booked by the Delhi police under the Epidemic Disease Act. Who and what exactly is this group?  Jamaat’s Origins  The Tablighi Jamaat (Society of Preachers) was founded by a Deobandi Islamic scholar Muhammad Ilyas al-Kandhlawi in Mewat, India, in 1926. As its name suggests, Al-Kandhlawi’s goal was to establish a group of dedicated preachers as a Muslim revivalist society, who could revive “true” Islam, which he saw was not being practised by many Muslims. The slogan Al-Kandhlawi coined for his new organisation captured the essence of its activities — “Oh Muslims, become true Muslims”. Al-Kandhlawi called upon his fellow Muslims to “enjoin the good and forbid the evil”. Al-Kandhlawi’s mission was also to revive his faith, but based on its core teachings and lifestyle of its early leaders. Also in Mewat where the Tablighi was founded, the Meos Muslims, a Rajput ethnic group, had followed syncretic traditions. Al-Kandhlawi wanted to end it all through dawa (proselytising). He sent his volunteers to villages to spread “the message of Allah”. The organisation grew fast in British India. In its annual conference held in November 1941, some 25,000 people attended. After Partition, it grew stronger in Pakistan and East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). Now, Tablighi’s largest national wing is in Bangladesh. The group has presence in 150 countries and millions of followers. ‘Purify the faith’ Inspired by the Deobandi creed, the Tablighis urge fellow Muslims to live like the Prophet did. They are theologically opposed to the syncretic nature of Sufi Islam and insist on its members to dress like the Prophet did (trouser or robe should be above the ankle). Men usually shave their upper lip and keep long beard. The focus of the organisation was on ‘purifying’ the Muslim faith. The organisation has a loose structure. The Emir is the leader of the international movement and is always related to the group’s founder Muhammad Ilyas al-Kandhlawi. The current leader, Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, is the grandson of the founder. The group also has a Shura Council, which is largely an advisory council with different national units and national headquarters. Key Activities The Tablighi Jamaat members have declared they are not political. They have also decried violence in the name of religion. They say the Prophet Mohammed has commanded all Muslims to convey the message of Allah, and the Tablighis take this as their duty. They divide themselves into small Jamaats (societies) and travel frequently across the world to spread the message of Islam to Muslim houses. The group’s modus operandi is peaceful and it is focused entirely on the Muslim community worldwide. “There is a culture of secretism in the organisation, which develops suspicion,” Ajit Doval, now India’s National Security Adviser and a former intelligence boss, said in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tablighi-jamaat-on-a-mission-to-purify-islam/article31242712.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,||Reveal post-lockdown plan, say scientists||Over 800 scientists, academicians and public health professionals issued a statement on April 1, urging the government to reveal a post-lockdown plan to fight COVID-19. The signatories include scientists from TIFR, Mumbai; NCBS, Bengaluru; IISc, Bengaluru; the IITs and IISERs, and doctors, including members of Indian Doctors for Peace and Development. “The lockdown is only a temporary solution. Unless this period of time is used to prepare the healthcare system, the country may end up paying the lockdown’s social costs without even seeing any long-term epidemiological benefits,” says Suvrat Raju from ICTS, Bengaluru, who is one of the persons co-ordinating this effort. While emphasising that that the lockdown itself is not a cure, the statement says: “… models [of disease progression] consistently suggest that, in the absence of other factors, the epidemic could bounce back once the lockdown is lifted. If this were to happen at the end of India’s lockdown, the epidemic would hit a society already under severe economic distress, with potentially devastating consequences.” The scientists urged the government to ensure that the rate of new infections is kept low in a sustainable manner when the lockdown ends. “While social distancing and better hygiene can help, these measures are insufficient by themselves. We are deeply concerned that the government of India has not released a roadmap, detailing how it plans to deal with the epidemic, once the lockdown is eased,” reads the statement. Expressing concern that the government is not using this precious interval of time to actually identify as many cases of COVID-19 as possible, the statement draws attention to a possible bounce-back effect: “In particular, the current restricted testing-policy creates the risk that a large number of mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic cases — which constitute the majority of infections — will remain undetected even at the end of the lockdown period. So, we urge the ICMR and the Government of India to take immediate steps to expand India’s testing regimen.” The statement also addresses the problem of reverse migration. The statement said, “Rather than attempting to prevent the reverse migration, we urge the government to use its stocks of food-grains and use urgent cash transfers to ensure the food-security and welfare of workers” so that they do not have to travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reveal-post-lockdown-plan-say-scientists/article31242750.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctors wary of BCG vaccine study||Doctors and scientists in India have expressed caution on a study which argues that countries that have deployed the BCG-tuberculosis vaccine in their immunisation programmes have seen fewer deaths from COVID-19. The study argues that 55 middle and high-income countries chosen for the analysis that have a current universal BCG policy had 0.78 deaths per million people, whereas middle and high income countries that never had a universal BCG policy (five countries) had a larger mortality rate, with 16.39 deaths per million people, a significant variation. Low and middle-income countries, even if they had universal immunisation policies, were excluded from the analysis because they were also likely to have low testing rates for COVID-19 infection and therefore fewer reported deaths. India wasn’t included in the analysis. The BCG vaccine is known to confer a strong immune response that have protective effects beyond just staving off a tuberculosis infection and because COVID-19 was particularly lethal to the elderly, those countries where the elderly were likely to have had a BCG shot in their childhood were likely to be better protected against the coronavirus, the authors argue. “Italy, where the COVID-19 mortality is very high, never implemented universal BCG vaccination. On the other hand, Japan [and which has a BCG policy since 1947] has maintained a low mortality rate despite not implementing the most strict forms of social isolation,” Aaron Miller, Mac Josh Reandelar, Kimberly Fasciglione, Violeta Roumenova, Yan Li, and Gonzalo H. Otazu, from the New York Institute of Technology, argue. However it was premature for India — that has had a consistent TB vaccination policy since 1968 — to take comfort. Gagandeep Kang, microbiologist and executive director, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, said only data that showed people who’d been immunised and showed less disease would be convincing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-wary-of-bcg-vaccine-study/article31242728.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,||Retirement didn’t stop them from living a full life; neither will the lockdown||N.S. Parthasarathy normally plays golf at least three times a week. Most afternoons would see him striding across the greens at the Madras Gymkhana Golf Annexe or the Tamil Nadu Golf Federation, a caddie in tow with his Callaway irons. He is 88. “I am probably the oldest active golfer in Chennai. I’ll brag and make that claim till somebody challenges me,” he said with a laugh, during a telephone conversation. Before COVID-19 and the lockdown, the Thiruvanmiyur resident led a busy life, dividing his time between walks in the morning, perfecting his putt, his job as a consultant at Power Centre, a city-based software solutions company run by his son-in-law, and writing fortnightly for Madras Musings. But now he has had to adapt to staying indoors 24x7. “For anyone prepared for a semi-retirement phase, this is easy. You just have to be inventive and widen your interests,” he said, adding how the hours are taken up with researching articles, work calls and catching up with friends on WhatsApp. “I’m reading a book on the life of Guru Nanak now, and my wife and I chant in the afternoons [a new pastime that brings them a sense of peace],” he said. “The main challenge is the change of physical environment. My wife has to deal with me being at home all the time. Tact and humour are my tools,” he added. Zoom gatherings At a time when a lot of what’s being written about the COVID-19 pandemic puts the focus on the most vulnerable ‘greying generation’ many retirees in Chennai are calmly going about their lives, adapting to the changes and not letting anxiety get the better of them. S.J. Stephen, 73, and his wife Hephzibah, 66, share that while they miss meeting their friends and being a part of church activities, life during the lockdown isn’t too bad. “We now use Zoom to meet up and pray. We also have more time to work in our terrace garden [where they grow vegetables like ladies finger, ridge gourd, brinjal and tomatoes] and tend to our chickens,” said Ms. Hephzibah. The couple, who used to be early morning fixtures on Anna Nagar’s roads, getting in their 10,000 steps a day, have adapted by shifting their attention to their terrace and treadmill. They also allot hours daily to connect with family and friends. “One day, I’ll talk to all my four siblings, another day I’ll video call my 12 nieces and nephews, or my senior friends,” said Mr. Stephen. Then there are those who are filling their days by embracing technology to contribute wherever possible. Alamelu Nagarajan, honorary educational director of AIM for Seva, a service organisation that gives underprivileged children access to quality education, is studying Vedanta via Zoom classes and organises online meditation sessions. The feisty 70-year-old with a playful side — she can whistle with two fingers, much to the amusement of friends and the neighbourhood kids — has been living with her daughter in Thiruvanmiyur for the last three months. “I’m not someone who can sit quietly. So now, I’m looking up forgotten recipes — like a Thooyamalli vegetable rice ball dish that I made the other day — and sharing it with friends. I’m also video chatting with the parents in our complex on ways to keep their kids engaged: through fun maths classes [she teaches Vedic maths], traditional board games, etc,” she said. The tough get going But this is not to say there aren’t challenges. For Mr. Stephen, it is the prospect of not being able to see his children, who are settled in the U.S., any time soon. “There’s nothing like meeting family and friends face to face, especially the elderly. It means a lot to them,” he said. Others are concerned that their children worry too much about them. “My daughter, who lives in Bengaluru, is worried about my husband and I living alone in Neelankarai,” said the soft-spoken Ritha Rajan, 71, whose job as the Academic coordinator of Music Academy’s Advanced School of Carnatic Music is on pause. “She’s already called all our neighbours and made sure they check up on us often,” she added, explaining that she was currently spending her days immersing herself in Carnatic, Hindustani, western classical and old film songs. The uncertain times are proving stressful for some. S. Parameswaran, chartered accountant and managing partner of S. Parameswaran & Co. in Kilpauk, said while it was a cause for concern that nobody can predict anything about the coronavirus , he was not letting the uncertainty affect him. “Social distancing will help us,” he emphasised. “But after the lockdown, I’m looking forward to going back to work. My clients’ turnover and volume of business may be lower [because of the shaky economy], but I won’t let it affect me. I will file returns and prepare financial statements.” The retired are banking on their experience to retain a positive outlook. “We’ve been through difficulties in life, so these troubled times aren’t too much to bear,” said D. Chandrasekhar, 72, founder of the Madras Dyslexia Association. “As a workaholic, it has helped me take a break,” he added. His only worry: that he may not have time enough to finish all the goals he set himself for the lockdown, including reading the complete collection of short stories by Raghavan Chudamani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retirement-didnt-stop-them-from-living-a-full-life-neither-will-the-lockdown/article31242730.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to raise Sheikh Saeed case at FATF if he walks free||The decision by a Pakistani court in Sindh to acquit Ahmed Omar Sheikh Saeed of murdering journalist Daniel Pearl will be raised by India at the next meeting of the Financial Action Task Force, where Pakistan’s greylist status will come up for discussion, officials said. The British-born Saeed has been in a Pakistani prison since he was arrested for the kidnapping and killing of the Wall Street Journal ’s correspondent in Pakistan in 2002, but was in Indian prisons from 1994-1999. In December 1999, Saeed was released along with Masood Azhar and another alleged terrorist Mushtaq Zargar by the Indian government in exchange for 155 hostages aboard the hijacked IC-814. The next FATF meeting is expected in June, but may be postponed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, it wasn’t just Saeed’s history with terrorism in India that would be raised, but his links with Al-Qaeda and, more specifically, his role in the 9/11 attacks in the U.S. Saeed has not yet been tried in that case and the Pakistani government’s actions in the next few days would be closely watched. If Pakistan’s federal government doesn’t file a strong appeal against the acquittal and Saeed walks free, as some Pakistani reports suggest, it would also show how transnational norms against “terror financing” were being flouted by Islamabad, the officials indicated. Saeed is reported to have spent time in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Chechnya, after he was recruited by the Hizbut Tahrir from the London School of Economics, where he studied. He is then believed to have trained with the Harkat ul Mujahideen, and was allegedly sent to India in 1994 as part of a plan to have Masood Azhar released. While in Delhi he is alleged to have befriended, and then kidnapped four British tourists and held them at a hideout in Ghaziabad. The police arrested him after he delivered a ransom message calling for Azhar’s release to the BBC office in Delhi, when he returned to the hideout. Once he was released along with Azhar at Kandahar, Saeed is believed to have become a key aide to Osama Bin Laden and was allegedly a part of Bin Laden’s plans for the Al-Qaeda’s attacks in the U.S. Another twist in the Saeed tale came in 2008 on the night of the November 26 attacks in Mumbai. Pakistani investigators claimed Saeed used a cellphone from prison to call then Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari and allegedly impersonated then India’s Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee, threatening a major Indian attack. The call had led to considerable panic in the Pakistani establishment, and President Zardari had sent a special plane to order back the Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, who happened to be in Delhi for a bilateral meeting at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-raise-sheikh-saeed-case-at-fatf-if-he-walks-free/article31242755.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nine held by Sri Lanka Navy, huge drug consignment seized||Yet another major drug seizure by the Sri Lanka Navy over 800 km off the country’s southern coast, in which nine Pakistani nationals have been arrested, has reinforced the contention of the Indian agencies that Pak-based cartels have been indulging in large-scale drug trafficking via sea routes in the region. Confirming the seizure, the Sri Lanka Navy on Wednesday tweeted: “Navy brought the seized foreign vessel ashore along with 605 kg of cyrstal meth (methaphetamine) and 579 kg of ketamine. The 09 crew members were found to be Pakistanis.” On March 5, in a similar operation, the Sri Lanka Navy had seized 500 kg of heroin and 100 kg of methaphetamine and arrested 16 persons, including eight from Pakistan. The contraband’s origin was traced to Pakistan’s Makran coast. “The seizures in the high seas are usually very less than the actual amount being smuggled in fishing boats, as the carriers start disposing of the drugs the moment they spot patrol parties from far away,” said an Indian Customs official on condition of anonymity. While smuggling of methaphetamine by sea in this region is an emerging trend, investigations into the seizures in the recent past have revealed that large consignments of heroin, processed mostly in laboratories located in Pakistan using the opium sourced from Afghanistan, are lately being transported via sea route. Since 2015, about four dozen Pakistani nationals have been arrested in connection with various seizures in the high seas off the coasts of India, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Mozambique. “Several gangs based in Lahore and Faislabad are involved in the trade. The consignments are sent to Karachi or Gwadar for further transport in fishing vessels,” said another official. Through the sea route, the drugs are also sent to Seychelles, Tanzania and Kenya for supply to Europe and other destinations. “Also, most of the drugs produced in Afghanistan are routed through Pakistan,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-held-by-sri-lanka-navy-huge-drug-consignment-seized/article31242697.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Restore 4G in J&K for virus updates’||A petition has urged the Supreme Court to restore 4G mobile Internet service in Jammu and Kashmir as, it said, doctors, patients and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition filed by the Foundation for Media Professionals through its president and journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and represented by advocate Shadan Farasat said,“Citizens in Jammu & Kashmir should not be deprived of facilities that are already available to Indians across the country, i.e., effective and speedy Internet, an indispensable tool in the struggle against COVID-19. The restriction in respect of mobile Internet speeds effectively amounts to a targeted rollback of such rights in respects of the residents of Jammu & Kashmir.” The plea stated that Internet in J&K had been restricted for over seven months following the abrogation of its special status under Article 370. It was illegal to do so. The petition, which specifically challenged a restricting order issued on March 26, said the right to Internet connectivity had repeatedly been recognised by the Centre as a “basic necessity or an essential service to ensure the right to health”. The Centre's 21-day lockdown guidelines on March 24 exempted “telecommunications, Internet services, broadcasting and cable services. IT and IT enabled services only [for essential services] and as far as possible to work from home,” it noted. There was need for real-time information, which the restricted services running on the outdated 2G speed and largely used to receive and send text messages, could not provide. 4G speed was necessary in various critical fields, from tele-medicine to supply of medical supplies to academics to online video consultations to professions, it said. “Restriction of mobile Internet to 2G fails the proportionality test. It is a disproportionate restriction on fundamental rights, and fails to take into consideration the reality of the current lockdown,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-4g-in-jk-for-virus-updates/article31242699.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry advises alcohol addicts to get treatment||People with alcohol dependence who are facing withdrawal symptoms during the lockdown period should visit their nearest healthcare facility for prescription medicines if they have mild symptoms such as headaches and difficulty in sleeping, according to a Social Justice and Empowerment (SJ&E) Ministry’s advisory issued on Thursday. If the symptoms are severe, including seizures and hallucinations, the patients should be rushed to hospital, said the advisory, which comes just over a week into the 21-day lockdown imposed by the Centre to control the spread of COVID-19. “During the lockdown period, alcohol-dependent persons face mild to serious withdrawal symptoms. An advisory in this regard has been issued today,” SJ&E Secretary R. Subrahmanyam said in a tweet. “A lockdown situation, which entails non-availability of alcohol, may be a blessing in disguise for some people who may utilise this opportunity to quit drinking altogether. However, it is also a significant challenge for a certain proportion of people with alcohol dependence who are at risk of experiencing severe alcohol withdrawal and its consequences,” the advisory said. Those experiencing mild or moderate symptoms were advised to visit the nearest health facility for prescription of medicines of the benzodiazepine group. Those experiencing severe symptoms would require emergency medical care and hospitalisation, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-advises-alcohol-addicts-to-get-treatment/article31242719.ece
03 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra denied permission for Jamaat event in March||Maharashtra narrowly escaped a situation similar to the one arising out of the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. A much bigger Tablighi Ijtema, with an estimated attendance of around 45,000 delegates, was to be organised in Vasai, neighbouring Mumbai, on March 14 and 15. However, the Home Department moved swiftly in the first week of March and convinced the organisers to call off the event. Confirming this, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, in an exclusive interview, explained how the government negotiated with the organisers to cancel the programme. “When we realised that a gathering of over 45,000 people at one place for two days could be a great health risk, we decided to take firm action,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Referring to the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, Mr. Deshmukh said the event should not have taken place. “When the Maharashtra police can cancel permission, why couldn’t the Delhi police do so?” he asked. On January 22, one Abdulkayyum Abdulahad Azmi, representing Shamim Education and Welfare Society, had applied to the Manikpur police station in Palghar district for permission to hold the Tablighi Ijtema on March 14 and 15. On March 6, the Manikpur police station cancelled permission for the Ijtema, citing the spread of the virus as the reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-denied-permission-for-jamaat-event-in-march/article31242721.ece
03 April 2020||Srinagar,||Grand mufti, Hurriyat, Panthers Party oppose domicile laws||Kashmir’s grand mufti (head priest), separatist Hurriyat Conference and the Jammu-based Panthers Party (NPP) on Thursday said the Centre’s domicile laws were “against the interest of the people” of J&K and demanded its rollback. “Domicile law is totally unacceptable to the people of Kashmir. It comes at a time when a pandemic has engulfed the entire world. Keeping top jobs for outsiders and Class IV jobs for J&K is a sheer injustice. We totally oppose it,” said Kashmir’s grand mufti Nasir-ul-Islam. The Hurriyat appealed to the “global community and people with conscience in India” to wake up. “They should respond to our situation in the light of ethics and principles of justice,” a Mirwaiz spokesman said. NPP leader Harsh Dev Singh held a street protest in Jammu against the domicile laws and demanded its rollback. “The new law is devious, totalitarian and sinister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grand-mufti-hurriyat-panthers-party-oppose-domicile-laws/article31242717.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Railways to make protective suits||After converting coaches into isolation/quarantine facilities, the Railways has now decided to manufacture Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) garment for medical professionals, service personnel and other care-givers involved in the COVID19 pandemic. In a note to all Principal Chief Mechanical Engineers of the zonal railways and production units, the Railway Board said there was a huge requirement of PPE garments and the production/maintenance infrastructure could be used for their production. The Jagadhari workshop in the Northern Railway had already developed a sample PPE garment which was in the process of approval by the appropriate authority. The PPE should conform to the approved design for standardisation. The board said absolute cleanliness should be maintained in the manufacture and the staff should wear the garment to prevent cross contamination. The goal is to produce three sets per sewing machine in one hour for 15 days across the network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-to-make-protective-suits/article31242748.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||4 nations to use Air India to repatriate their citizens||Four countries — France, Germany, Ireland and Canada — have chartered Air India’s services to repatriate their citizens from India. However, none of the flights will bring any Indians or other passengers stranded in these places back with them due to the continuing travel restrictions, officials clarified. Air India will be mounting 18 flights to Paris and Frankfurt and will fly Canadian and Irish citizens to London, Air India Chairman and Managing Director, Rajeev Bansal, said at a press conference on Thursday. A flight to London Heathrow will depart daily from Delhi from April 4 to 7 and from Mumbai on April 5 and 7. Flights to Frankfurt have commenced. “This is a commercial contract between different countries and Air India,” Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said. However, India has no plans to mount any special flights to bring back its citizens until the lockdown is over. “Resumption of flights from different countries will be decided on a case-by-case basis,” Mr. Puri said.  It is reliably learnt that a few international airlines, including Gulf carriers, have written to Indian missions in different countries seeking permission to fly Indians stranded there back to their home country, but their requests have been turned down. “We have been approached by several Indians, including those from Kuwait,” an executive of an international airline said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-nations-to-use-air-india-to-repatriate-their-citizens/article31242744.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Na Corona Karo song goes viral on social media||A song to make people aware about taking precautions against COVID-19, composed by Pune-based classical khayal vocalist Sandeep Ranade, has mesmerised celebrities and social media users. The song was shared by A.R. Rahman on his Instagram account. Mr. Ranade said, “When I created Na Corona Karo in Raga Basant, we were yet to go into lockdown... I wanted to feel hope and optimism and the song was simply an expression of this sentiment. After I shared the song on social media and it went viral, I got messages from people all over the world, saying they felt uplifted, optimistic, and motivated to fight the virus as a community.” Pandit Ajay Pohankar, Pandit Suresh Talwalkar, Daler Mehndi, Adnan Sami, Shubha Mudgal and Nana Patekar have hailed Mr. Ranade’s effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/na-corona-karo-song-goes-viral-on-social-media/article31242741.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 50 lakh meant for PPE diverted, allege doctors||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) has alleged that the administration and corporate social responsibility (CSR) section had redirected Rs. 50 lakh from Bharat Dynamics under the Ministry of Defence to PM-CARES fund rather than the originally assigned purpose of buying personal protection equipment (PPE). The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund, a public charitable trust, was set up in response to the emerging requirement for resources to defeat the novel coronavirus pandemic. “We met with the administration on Wednesday and told them about our concerns and requested that all personal protection equipment will have to meet the safety standards prescribed by the Health Ministry and that neither doctors nor other patients should be put at risk of catching the infection. “Jugaad” PPE will not work,” said AIIMS RDA general secretary T. Srinivas Rajkumar on Thursday. He said the funds being re-directed was a serious issue. Baseless, says AIIMS Responding to the allegation, AIIMS has said that the statement is baseless. It said that no funds have been released by Bharat Dynamics to AIIMS. The AIIMS RDA had informed the administration that Bharat Dynamics was interested in helping to procure PPE. After talks with the firm, the funds were not released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-50-lakh-meant-for-ppe-diverted-allege-doctors/article31242747.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||PM asks for plan to stagger lockdown end||“The monies and grains released under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana should be disbursed speedily,” he said. Significantly, he also told the Chief Ministers that volunteers of the National Cadet Corps and the National Service Scheme would also be recruited in the effort to combat COVID-19. “Other than this, crisis management groups should coordinate with as many NGOs as possible and strategies should be shared with all stakeholders as we need everyone’s help at this time,” he said. Mr. Modi also urged the States that immunity boosting methods used by traditional systems of medicines in India such as Ayurveda should be promoted as fatalities were high among those with compromised immunity. “These are our traditional ways of boosting immunity,” he said pointing to the fact that an advisory by the AYUSH Ministry had been issued in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-asks-for-plan-to-stagger-lockdown-end/article31242710.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||9,000 with Tablighi link sent into quarantine||“We have also been checking and evacuating people from other mosques in the city, who had visited the Markaz (centre) last month. Till now, we have evacuated about 400 people from other mosques, and they have been moved to hospital and quarantine facilities. There are a lot of mosques, and it is an ongoing process,” a Delhi official said. The people evacuated from these mosques are not yet tested, the official said. “Where will we go for these many testing kits? There is some delay in testing kits reaching us due to the lockdown,” the official added. Three Bangladeshi nationals, who had visited the Tablighi centre, tested positive for COVID-19 at Palwal, Haryana. The district administration has declared five villages as “containment zone” following the test results and suspended the Sarpanches for concealing information about them. Besides, 109 more visitors to the centre were traced from different parts of the district late on Wednesday night. Ms. Srivastava said the Home Ministry was coordinating a “massive effort” to trace all contacts linked to the gathering. Meanwhile, the chief of the centre, Maulana Saad, has asked all members to cooperate with local authorities. In a new audio clip, he can be heard saying, “People should follow the guidelines and advice of doctors. I myself am in isolation and people should follow the instructions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/9000-with-tablighi-link-sent-into-quarantine/article31242714.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP terms Sonia Gandhi’s statement ‘petty politics’||The BJP on Thursday reacted sharply to Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s statement that the all-India lockdown by the Centre to arrest the spread of COVID-19 was ill planned. Leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J.P. Nadda termed it “petty politics” at a time when the crisis called for a unified response. Ms. Gandhi’s statement made at a video meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) termed the lockdown necessary but ill planned. “Under PM Narendra Modi’s leadership, India’s efforts to fight the coronavirus are being lauded domestically and globally. 130 crore Indians are united to defeat COVID-19. Yet the Congress is playing petty politics. High time they think of national interest and stop misleading people,” Mr. Shah retorted. He said it had been an “old habit” of the Congress that it had always walked a different path in the matters of national interest, and that it had sought to divide the country for its “selfish interests”. “When will the Congress put national interest above its selfish politics,” Mr. Shah asked. Mr. Nadda pointed out that while the Centre was taking along all Chief Ministers, Ms. Gandhi’s comments were “insensitive and indecent”. “I want to ask Sonia Gandhiji, if her statement was meant for Punjab and Rajasthan governments, who had imposed lockdown prior to the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Modi? Did these State governments impose lockdown without preparation?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-terms-sonia-gandhis-statement-petty-politics/article31242715.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 cases double in five days||“In this area, we have sealed the building from where the case has been reported, and the collection of samples from all residents of the building is under way. As per the protocol, contact-tracing is also under way,” said Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry. Mr. Agrawal condemned the attack on medical workers and said the Union government, along with the States and Union Territories, had been working to prevent, contain and manage COVID-19. “These efforts are being regularly monitored at the highest level,” he said. “Prime Minister Modi chaired a high-level meeting with the Chief Ministers through videoconference and urged them to manage the crisis at the district level and focus on testing, isolation and quarantine. The States were also told to upgrade the healthcare human resource and conduct online training for front-line workers,” Mr. Agrawal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-double-in-five-days/article31242716.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Conviction in Daniel Pearl case overturned||The other accused — Fahad Nasim Ahmed, Sheikh Muhammad Adil, and Syed Salman Saqib — have been cleared of all charges. They were earlier given life sentence, which has been overturned. Talking to The Hindu , Pakistan Bar Council vice-chairman Abid Saqi said the benefit of the doubt must go to the accused in murder trials. Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh’s lawyer Mahmood A Sheikh said he was “disappointed” with the judgment, though it was a “welcome decision that Omar Saeed Sheikh has been acquitted of all charges, except kidnapping”. “...there was no evidence of kidnapping either. Observations regarding all charges in the court went in the direction that the prosecution has failed to establish any case against my client.” The prosecution tried to link Pearl’s kidnapping with the identification parade, which the court said was faulty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conviction-in-daniel-pearl-case-overturned/article31242713.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Geo-fencing app to locate quarantine violators||The particular provision under the Act, amended multiple times since 1885, authorises the State or the Centre to access information of a user’s phone data in case of “occurrence of any public emergency or in the interest of the public safety.” The CQAS will prepare a list of mobile numbers, segregating them on the basis of telecom service providers, and the location data provided by the companies will be run on the application to create geo-fencing, the SOP said. Data will be deleted It said that the phone number should be deleted from the system after the period for which location monitoring is required is over and the data would be deleted four weeks from thereon. “The data collected shall be used only for the purpose of Health Management in the context of COVID-19 and is strictly not for any other purposes. Any violation in this regard would attract penal provisions under the relevant laws,” the SOP said. The SOP said that geo-fencing will only work if the quarantined person has a mobile phone from Airtel, Vodafone-Idea or Reliance Jio, as “BSNL/MTNL” do not support location based services. BSNL and MTNL are government owned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/geo-fencing-app-to-locate-quarantine-violators/article31242718.ece
03 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi turns into a hotspot||With the novel coronavirus claiming its first victim in Dharavi on Wednesday and a conservancy worker testing positive, Asia’s largest slum is a hotspot. On Wednesday, Dharavi reported its first case, a 56 year-old garment shop owner from Baliga Nagar, and the person died on the same day. He had no history of foreign travel. Besides, a 52 year-old conservancy worker from Worli also tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. He is a resident of Worli's Jijamata Nagar, another hotspot. The man was on duty in Dharavi until Monday when he developed symptoms. He was immediately relieved and sent for testing. His test came positive on Thursday. He is now admitted to Seven Hills hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-turns-into-a-hotspot/article31242723.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Self-quarantine must for those leaving govt. centres||The Union Home Ministry said on Thursday that persons being released from government-run quarantine centres were to further quarantine themselves at home for 14 days as a “measure of abundant precaution”. The Ministry issued another set of guidelines to be followed by the States during the lockdown. The guidelines detailed the standard operating procedure (SOP) for making transit arrangements for stranded foreigners. The SOP said requests received by foreign governments for evacuation would be examined by the External Affairs Ministry on a “case to case” basis. “The chartered flight would be arranged by the concerned foreign government in consultation with the Ministry of Civil Aviation,” the Home Ministry said. It said each foreign national would be screened for COVID-19 symptoms prior to departure and those asymptomatic would be allowed to leave. Local transport was to be arranged by the embassy or consulate and the transit pass for movement of vehicles would be issued by the State government. The SOP for those completing the quarantine period in government facilities said that “persons testing negative for COVID-19 would be released… However, this will not apply to a group where even one person tests positive”. These persons are to return to their homes by making their own transport arrangements. “The transit pass will be issued for fixed route and specified validity,” the Home Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/self-quarantine-must-for-those-leaving-govt-centres/article31242731.ece
03 April 2020||Mumbai,||Rs. 500 in Jan Dhan accounts||The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) has said that women beneficiaries of the Jan Dhan account can start withdrawing Rs. 500 from April 3, in the first of the three instalments of a sum of Rs. 1,500 relief announced by the Centre as part of the fight against COVID-19. “Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package, Rs. 500 per month is being deposited into the accounts of women Jan Dhan Yojana beneficiaries by all banks. This is first of the 3 monthly instalments,” IBA said in a statement. To maintain physical distancing and ensure efficient service, a schedule has been announced for the withdrawals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-500-in-jan-dhan-accounts/article31242753.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||960 foreigners blacklisted for Tablighi ties||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has blacklisted 960 foreigners, present in India on tourist visas, for their involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities, Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted on Thursday. It has also directed the Directors General of Police of all the concerned States and Union Territories including Delhi Police to take necessary action against all such violators, on priority, under relevant sections of the Foreigners Act, 1946, and Disaster Management Act, 2005, Mr. Shah said in his tweet. The visas issued to these foreigners had also been cancelled, he added. A blacklisted foreigner cannot get a visa from any of the missions abroad to come to India. About 9,000 people linked to the Nizamuddin event have been traced in different parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/960-foreigners-blacklisted-for-tablighi-ties/article31242702.ece
03 April 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha readies 650 beds for COVID-19 patients||The Odisha government on Thursday readied two hospitals at Bhubaneswar and Cuttack with a combined capacity of 650 beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients. One of the COVID-19 hospitals has been set up near Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences in Bhubaneswar, while the second hospital has been made functional at Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack. The two facilities were completed in record time of one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-readies-650-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article31243038.ece
03 April 2020||Patna,||Siwan doctor who asked for roping in quacks to combat COVID-19 suspended||Siwan civil surgeon Ashesh Kumar was suspended for issuing an official letter to rope in services of Jhola Chhap doctors (quacks) to combat COVID-19 pandemic in the district. The screenshot of his controversial letter had gone viral on social media. The State’s Health department suspended him with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/siwan-doctor-who-asked-for-roping-in-quacks-to-combat-covid-19-suspended/article31242735.ece
03 April 2020||Guwahati,||Amid COVID-19 scare, 11 Bangladeshi nationals sent home||Eleven Bangladeshi nationals, who had returned from New Delhi more than a week ago, have been sent to their country through a land customs station on the India-Bangladesh border in Meghalaya. Officials of the Assistant High Commission of Bangladesh in Guwahati said the 11 were sent home after medical examination and ascertaining that they had not attended the congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-covid-19-scare-11-bangladeshi-nationals-sent-home/article31242739.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Decongest jails temporarily: PUDR||The People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) on Thursday asked the government to decongest jails temporarily in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. In a statement, the PUDR said jails should be decongested to not more than 60% of their capacity to allow segregation of inmates and maintenance of hygiene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decongest-jails-temporarily-pudr/article31242743.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||NCC Cadets, Ex-Servicemen roped in to assist in battling COVID-19||The National Cadet Corps has issued guidelines for temporary employment of its cadets to augment relief efforts and functioning of various agencies involved in battling COVID-19, the Defence Ministry said on Thursday. The Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare too will join the efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncc-cadets-ex-servicemen-roped-in-to-assist-in-battling-covid-19/article31242746.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS doctor, wife test positive for COVID-19||A resident doctor of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, and his nine months pregnant wife have tested positive for COVID-19, according to a source at the hospital. “The doctor posted at the physiology department of the AIIMS was the first to show symptoms and later his wife was also brought in and both have tested positive,” said a hospital source. Close contacts of the doctors have been isolated, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-doctor-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31242724.ece
03 April 2020||Bhopal,||7 held for pelting healthcare workers with stones in Indore||The Indore police on Thursday arrested seven persons for allegedly chasing away and pelting healthcare workers with stones on Wednesday when they were trying to trace the contacts of a man in a locality who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier. “A case against unidentified persons was lodged on Wednesday,” Vivek Sharma, Inspector General of Police, Indore Zone, told The Hindu . “We have received videos and some local inputs, based on which we are identifying the accused.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-held-for-pelting-healthcare-workers-with-stones-in-indore/article31242732.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Large crowd makes screening difficult at Koyambedu market||The lockdown might have brought down the number of visitors to the Koyambedu wholesale market, but crowds are still nowhere near manageable for health teams posted at its two entry points. Before the lockdown, on average, nearly 1 lakh visitors, including retail traders, visited the market daily. After the curbs, the number of visitors has dropped to 50,000-60,000 a day. A few days ago, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar inspected the market and checked the feasibility of deploying a health team to help in COVID-19 containment measures. Health teams were posted on shifts — from 2 a.m. to 2 p.m. — at two gates of the vegetable and fruit market. Medical camps Health officials said the teams are deployed at the market to screen visitors, conduct medical camps and take up disinfection measures. However, the continuous inflow of customers is making screening difficult, an official source said. “The screening team has four to five hand-held thermometers to check the visitors, and it is impossible to isolate those with symptoms, considering the surroundings and crowd. Thermal scanners at entry points will help the teams identify persons with fever,” he said. Wholesale traders start visiting the market from 1 a.m., while retail markets open at 3.30-4 a.m. The market stays open till 2 p.m. Traders note that the screening of visitors began on Wednesday morning, at important gates of the market. Though physical distancing is insisted upon, it is not being implemented, as crowds surge during the few hours the wholesale market functions, they said. S. Srinivasan, president, Chennai Fruits Agents’ Association, said drones were being used to disinfect the market. The market is receiving only up to 400 vehicles, every day, as there is a dearth of workers. However, authorities must take action to control retail trading in some pockets of the market, he added. Officials of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee said that the market was still crowded during peak hours and physical distancing was proving to be a challenge. About 1,600 smaller vehicles that visit the market are regulated and disinfected, they said. “Health Department officials have sought the support of traders’ association for thermal screening in the market,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/large-crowd-makes-screening-difficult-at-koyambedu-market/article31242922.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. count touches 309 as 75 more people test positive||Another 75 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 infection on Thursday in Tamil Nadu. Except one, the remaining 74 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin, Delhi. The State now has 309 cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), of which 264 took part in the conference. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said samples were taken from all the 1,103 persons, who had attended the conference from Tamil Nadu, and a few more samples were under process. A few more persons, who had taken part in the conference, continued to come forward, and details would be available on Friday. Of the 74 persons, 19 men were from Chennai, 15 from Karur, nine from Virudhunagar, seven from Chengalpattu, six from Erode, five were from Tiruvarur, four from Ranipet, three from Tirupattur, two each from Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram, and one each from Tiruvallur and Tirunelveli. Apart from them, one person, a resident of Chennai, has tested positive. He was a contact of a previously positive patient — a 43-year-old man of Pozhichalur with travel history to Thiruvananthapuram. Till now, confirmed COVID-19 cases were reported from 19 districts, and Tiruvallur was added to the list, she added. With Thursday’s count, Chennai topped the list with 46 patients, followed by Erode (32) and Tirunelveli (30). Scare at mall Dr. Rajesh said they had traced the source of infection for the 25-year-old woman, who worked in a store in Phoenix Mall in Chennai. She had interacted with a person from Kerala who travelled to Sri Lanka and tested positive for COVID-19, was tracked back to Chennai, and then to Kerala. The largest number of contacts were traced as it was a mall, she said. While two employees of a store in Phoenix Mall had tested positive earlier, Chennai Corporation put out a tweet that three employees of the store tested positive. However, there was no clarity as the Health Department did not declare any new case from the mall. As of now, seven patients were discharged after treatment, she added. Officials said a 52-year-woman, a resident of Chennai who had travelled from the U.S., was discharged from the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. She had co-morbidities, including hypertension. Containment plan was in full swing with the involvement of 4,585 field workers. Till now, 13,67,534 individuals were screened, she said. About the State’s preparedness if the pandemic enters Stage 3, she said a think-tank was created with experts. Special panel “We have already taken the help of Johns Hopkins and held a video-conferencing session with a community health expert in the U.S. We have involved experts who are doing a lot of projections. There is a separate team under the Chief Secretary that does these projections, how many cases are expected in a worst-case scenario. Based on what that worst-case scenario is, we are trying to calculate what will be our requirement in terms of infrastructure,” she said. “We are studying projections. These projections included how COVID-19 played out in other countries and how many days it took for the increase in case. We have approximate projections,” she added. The State will soon get six more testing facilities this week, the Health Secretary added. Efforts were on to establish another State-level laboratory. “We have received more number of testing kits. We have capability to test 12,000 samples. Every laboratory has a capacity of doing a minimum of 100 samples a day,” she said. During the lockdown, the aim was to increase testing facilities, conduct maximum testing and maximise infrastructure. COVID-19 testing of persons with severe acute respiratory illness who needed hospitalisation was being done since February. The number of persons under home quarantine in T.N. is 86,342. The State had tested 3,272 samples so far. Of this, 404 samples were under process. Ninety persons were in quarantine centres, and 1,335 persons were admitted to isolation wards of hospitals.  We have already taken the help of Johns Hopkins and held a video-conferencing session with a health expert in the U.S. Beela Rajesh, Health Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-count-touches-309-as-75-more-people-test-positive/article31242947.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DPH issues stern warning||In the light of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) being declared a notified disease, violation of norms laid down under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act (TNPHA), 1939, and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, will attract legal action, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has warned. Places such as government and private buildings and hospitals, apartments, and firms should have sufficient numbers of taps and washbasin, and provide liquid handwash or soaps for visitors. Visitors should be allowed to enter and leave the premises only after washing their hands, the directorate said. In case of any information on COVID-19 cases, laboratories, hospitals and doctors should inform the directorate within 24 hours in writing. If they fail to do so, their recognition/license would be cancelled and legal action would be taken. Government and private hospitals should maintain their premises by taking up frequent disinfection measures to prevent spread of COVID-19. Healthcare facilities that fail to adhere to infection-control measures would face legal action. Those who fail to adhere to the instructions would face action under the provisions of the two Acts. In addition, they would face six months imprisonment or fine or both under section 188 of Indian Penal Code, the directorate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dph-issues-stern-warning/article31242949.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11% cardholders get cash on Day One||Amid reports of violation of “personal distancing” norms in certain places of the State and the alleged involvement by members of the ruling AIADMK, the distribution of Rs. 1,000 cash and free rice, pulses, edible oil and sugar to ration cardholders began on Thursday. The assistance was being given to ration cardholders to mitigate the adverse impact of COVID-19. As public distribution system (PDS) shops opened in the morning, many places in Chennai had long queues with tokens not being distributed in the preceding days. A scene of the AIADMK members passing on tokens to ration cardholders in Virugambakkam did the rounds on social media. BJP’s State unit treasure S.R. Sekar wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to prevent ruling party men from distributing tokens. Elsewhere in the State, particularly in Dindigul, reports of crowding came from Ram Nagar, TVA Nagar and in Oddanchatram PDS outlets. In Begumpur of Dindigul town, the Health and Family Welfare Department officials had declared the area as “containment zone”. Despite the ration shop, near Naddarsha Street, getting situated in the containment zone, the PDS beneficiaries of the shop lined up in front of the shop to collect relief material. The officials distributed the provisions and cash rapidly and closed the shop for the day by noon. Acknowledging that there were “a few instances” of violation of the norms in Chennai, a senior official of the Civil Supplies Department said they got “corrected immediately.” Another official explained that due to “logistical issues,” the tokens could not be issued in advance. One more official was of the view that the practice of ration cardholders not residing at the stated addresses was “quite rampant” in southern parts of the city. However, for ration cardholders in north Chennai, they were informed that tokens would be issued in advance for getting provisions and cash. Asked about the alleged participation of his party members in the issue of tokens, Food Minister R. Kamaraj told The Hindu that the Chief Minister had made it clear that only employees of the rations shops should do this job and not others. Later, he told journalists that while it was targeted to distribute the aid to 10% of the ration card holders on a day, about 11.63% card holders were covered on Thursday. In 10 days all beneficiaries would be covered. Notwithstanding these instances, the distribution in most parts of the State went off smoothly. In Theni, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam commenced the distribution at the new bus stand in the presence of MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar. Thanks to the “initiative” of Collector K.S. Kandasamy in Tiruvannamalai district, the delivery of the commodities and cash at the doorstep of PDS beneficiaries was carried out during the day. .  Some arrangements had been made to lessen inconvenience of people. At a few ration shops at Kovilpatti and Thirugokarnam in Pudukottai town, chairs, with necessary spacing, were placed.  (With inputs from B. Kolappan in Chennai, M. Soundariya Preetha in Coimbatore, S.P, Saravanan in Erode, V. Venkatasubramanian in Thanjavur and Kathelene Antony and R.Rajaram in Tiruchi and Madurai Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-cardholders-get-cash-on-day-one/article31242955.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How T.N. handled Delhi event fallout||Has Tamil Nadu really got the lid on what it perceived as a big threat to its efforts to control the pandemic? With 1,103 people who attended the Tablighi Jammat conference in Nizamuddin in Delhi, identified, health authorities do believe that the bulk of cases are under control. The transformation from apprehension to confidence has been literally overnight. Until Monday, 515 people had been identified and the State government unsure of tracing every single person who attended the event in Delhi. In an initial batch, 16 out of 17 people whose swabs were picked up tested positive. With this high rate of positivity conversion, it became imperative that every single person who attended the event be identified and tested. With the issue assuming alarming proportions and no viable route ahead, the State government decided to go in for a last resort measure — a suggestion that was apparently made by the Chief Minister — he said he would make an open appeal in the media, asking people who attended the event to come forward and declare themselves voluntarily. He went ahead with it. In a couple of days, over 1,100 people had been identified. How did this happen? Health Secretary Beela Rajesh says it was simple: “They started calling us, they came on their own.” With the appeal from the Chief Minister, people started calling the helplines and the help lines started buzzing. “They gave us details about themselves and also some gave us information about where we could find others who had travelled with them to Delhi.” By Tuesday, 515 people had been identified, and at 6 p.m. on Thursday, 1,103 people, across nearly 15 districts in the State, who had attended the conference had been identified, Dr. Rajesh adds. With this, the Health Department believes it has caught the bulk of the group that went to Delhi. Work is on to test all of them and it will be completed in a day or so. The tail line and stragglers too will be identified in a day or two, Dr. Rajesh says. Door-to-door calls Meanwhile, door-to-door surveillance is on in areas where these people lived, and containment strategies, cordoning off the area around the house, are ongoing. Those who have stepped up, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, have been sent to quarantine units in the government facilities, and all of them are tested. If they test positive, they will be sent on to the isolation unit in a hospital, and if they test negative, they will have to remain in hospital until the end of the quarantine period of 28 days, Dr. Rajesh explains. When the contact tracing of family members and close friends and neighbours is complete, it is likely that within a week that the issue that threatened to overwhelm the State with a glut of unseen infections will be well within hand. With the government stating that the general community infection is at a mere 45 persons (out of 309 positive cases), the larger issue that one cannot see past is the contribution of the attendees. However, it seems as of now that the spectre of an explosion has materialised into a real form, and has been tackled, at least into quarantine. Health authorities are well aware that while they might count this as an achievement, there is no room for complacence or fatigue here, and the vigil must go on, as long as COVID-19 remains a real threat in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-tn-handled-delhi-event-fallout/article31242959.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Psychologists inundated with calls from those in distress||After the Health and Family Welfare Department publicised district-wise helpline numbers on Wednesday for people in need of mental health support due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists (TNACP) said that it has been receiving a steady stream of calls. TNACP, whose members are available for counselling through the helplines, said that while many calls are about disease-related panic, a considerable number of them were from homemakers, feeling overburdened due to the lockdown. Keerthi Pai, a clinical psychologist in Chennai and joint secretary of TNACP, said that she received calls from a few women facing such issues. “The lockdown may mean less work for many. However, for housewives, it generally means more cooking and other chores, since the entire family is always home. The problem is compounded by the fact that domestic helps cannot come to work,” she said. She said that this additional burden could affect them when their husbands and other family members are not understanding and accommodative. “If the relationship is already strained, this can worsen it,” she said. She said that some women, whom she spoke to, also felt a loss of personal space. “Before lockdown, despite all the work, the homemakers had some time for themselves when their husbands and children went out in the day. That is absent now,” she added. Alcohol addiction N. Suresh Kumar, secretary, TNACP, said that some of the calls were also about withdrawal symptoms for persons dependent on alcohol. “After counselling them, depending on the need, we are asking them to visit the nearest health facilities,” he said. Majority of the calls, however, were from people who were either afraid that they have COVID-19 or were worried about others they were in contact with. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that he received a call from a man in Sivaganga, suspicious that his grocer had attended the controversial religious conference in Delhi, many of whose attendees have tested positive for the disease. “Another call was from a woman frustrated with her family member, who was undergoing treatment for tuberculosis, but was not taking respiratory hygiene seriously,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/psychologists-inundated-with-calls-from-those-in-distress/article31242924.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contributions pour in for relief funds||Contributions are pouring into the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and PM-CARES from different quarters of society. One such initiative is from the members of the Indian Forest Service Association, Tamil Nadu chapter, who have decided to contribute their one day salary to the CM’s Public Relief Fund to combat Covid-19. There have been contributions from banks. Close to 2,56,000 employees of the State Bank of India have decided to contribute two days’ salary, about Rs. 100 crore, to the PM-CARES. Last Week, the SBI had committed 0.25% of its annual profit for financial year 2019-20 as part of its corporate social responsibility activities to fight COVID-19. SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar said: “This is the time where we all need to combat this battle of COVID-19 outbreak with united efforts.” The Sundaram Finance and its associate companies of the TVS Group have contributed Rs. 20 crore towards COVID-19 relief fund. The amount was equally split between the PM CARES Fund and the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Torrent Group announced its support of Rs. 100 crore. A release said that while Rs. 50 crore would be contributed to the PM–CARES fund, another Rs. 50 crore would be donated for various other initiatives.  Meanwhile, Kansai Nerolac has announced that the company will supply paint to transform the college hospital’s 50,000 sq. m. COVID-19 isolation ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-pour-in-for-relief-funds/article31242935.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. deploys Amma Canteen staff for containment work||Starting Friday, employees of Amma Canteens will start visiting houses as part of COVID-19 containment activities in the city. At least 5,000 women who have been serving food for the poor, in the last few years, will start visiting houses in neighbourhoods affected by COVID-19. The women workers of Amma Canteens will generate comprehensive information related to COVID-19 from each household. The data will be used for pandemic response by public health officials. “The women will do COVID-19 containment-related activities after cooking food in Amma Canteens. We have assured the women that they will get additional pay for the containment work. The women will be provided personal protective equipment,” said an official. “Senior officials convened a meeting of leaders in Amma Canteens on Thursday and asked us to start work to contain the disease. They did not give us an option. It was an order. We are scared of infecting our family during the course of the work. We were warned that we may lose our jobs if we do not take part in the work on Friday. We have requested senior officials not to send us to high-risk zones,” said a worker from a canteen. Some canteen workers have already been reporting that they have symptoms of cold and fever. The workers have requested the Corporation to screen them before sending them for COVID-19 containment activities. As many as 407 Amma Canteens have remained open during the lockdown for providing food for the poor at affordable costs. In addition to workers of canteens, women members of SHGs in a few zones have been asked to collect data on COVID-19 from the households. “We have also generated a list of unemployed graduates to take part in containment activities. Each graduate will get Rs. 15,500 a month,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-deploys-amma-canteen-staff-for-containment-work/article31242931.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||47,691 cases booked so far||The number of violations touched 47,691 in the State since the curfew which was promulgated to prevent Covid-19 outbreak entered ninth day on Thursday. According to the State police, there were 47,691 violations reported in the curfew period and 46,970 persons were arrested for loitering without any valid reason. Altogether, 42,035 first information reports (FIRs) were opened and Rs. 16.27 lakh as fine was collected from the violators, said police sources. In Chennai, police booked 388 cases from Wednesday evening till Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47691-cases-booked-so-far/article31242942.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Incentives announced for COVID-19 drugs, equipment||The State government has announced a special incentive to promote manufacture of COVID-19-related medical equipment and drugs. This includes ventilators, PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, N-95 masks, multi-para monitors, anti-malarial and anti-viral drugs in Tamil Nadu. According to a Government Order, other items will be added. The package will apply to all manufacturers, including large industries and MSMEs who commence production in Tamil Nadu before July 31. Minimum 50% of the equipment and drugs produced under the package during three months (May-July) will be purchased by Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. “A 30% capital subsidy, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 20 crore, on the investment made in eligible fixed assets will be provided to eligible manufacturers,” the government order said. Manufacturers can commence production without prior clearance. As per the order copy, “Permissions may be obtained subsequently after commencement of production.” There will be a 100% stamp duty waiver. A 6% interest subvention will be given to manufacturers for working capital loans availed from commercial banks or financial institutions for two quarters (till December 31), through Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. (TIIC) The package will be implemented by SIPCOT for large industries and IC&DIC for MSMEs. Guidance Tamil Nadu will provide facilitation, including single window clearance. SIPCOT and SIDCO will provide land or sheds on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incentives-announced-for-covid-19-drugs-equipment/article31242944.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cultural fare to be streamed on social media||As the lockdown enters its second week, Carnatic musicians and organisations are putting together special programmes, making recordings and hosting them on social media. Some have even made special compositions. Online channel Paalamtv has planned a series of Carnatic concerts and Tamil plays that will be webcast onwww.paalamtv.comfrom April 5 to 14, between 5.30 p.m. and 9.30 p.m., with a repeat telecast the next day from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., said a release from Mudhra Bhaskar, founder trustee, Paalamtv. On Sunday, the programme will be a four-hour-long concert by Gayathri Venkataraghavan. On Tuesday, a concert by the Malladi Brothers will be followed by Kathady Ramamurthy’s play Neengal Yaar Pakkam . Other programmes include a concert by Ramakrishnanmurthy on April 7. The Priya Sisters will be followed by T.V. Varadarajan’s Tamil play Real Estate on April 8 . On April 9, there will be an Akkarai Sisters concert, and on April 10, the Sid Sriram concert will be followed by Y. Gee. Mahendra’s play Idhu Nayama Sir . On April 11, Kunnakudi Balamuralikrishna will perform, and on April 12, Abhishek Raguram’s performance will be followed by Drama Dummies’ play Engirundo Vandan. On April 13, audiences can watch Sri Vijaya Gopala , a dance performance, a fusion concert with Vikku Vinayakram and L. Shenkar and a light music programme with MSV hits. On April 14, there will be a concert by Bharat Sundar. Violin Sisters M. Lalitha and M. Nandini are asking those learning music to send in their recordings, and are posting the videos on their Facebook page. Music heals “We call it ‘Music Heals’ since music does have the power to heal. It is also a way to make students, especially the younger ones, practice during the lockdown. We now have around 100 videos and these are not just our students but children from all over. We are asking them to mention the names of their gurus as well, and send videos,” said the duo. If youngsters are unable to reach them through Facebook messenger, they can post with any of the following tags: #musicheals #prayer #lalithanandini and #waystomakestudentspractice. Renowned Chitravina exponent N. Ravikiran has composed a piece in raga Deepakam, called Tryambakam Yajamahe, inspired by the Maha Mrtyunjaya Mantra . The piece, uploaded on YouTube, has been performed by sisters Anahita and Apoorva. “This is a small original composition for those believing in prayers and prevention,” said Mr. Ravikiran. Vocalist Jayakrishnan Unni has sung a composition of his on Lord Sri Vishwambara of Kottakal in Sri raga and posted it on YouTube. Media personality Subhasree Thanikachalam is doing 7 to 8-minute episodes on lesser heard film songs in which she gives a backgrounder to the songs and then has an artiste sing them. The episodes are available on Facebook, YouTube and Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cultural-fare-to-be-streamed-on-social-media/article31242919.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. nod to regularise unapproved layouts in hilly areas||In a significant but contentious decision, the State government has decided to regularise unapproved layouts and plots in hilly areas. It has notified the Tamil Nadu Regularisation of Unapproved Layouts and Plots in Hilly Areas Rules, 2020. A large number of unapproved layouts have come up in hill areas, which were under the purview of the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA). A Government Order issued by the Housing and Urban Development Department on March 30 said most plots in such layouts have been bought by “poor and innocent people”. These layouts can’t be put back to their original use. Hence it was expedient to regularise them and provide basic infrastructure facilities. A senior official in the Housing and Urban Development Department told The Hindu that the new G.O. was issued for hilly areas as previously regularisation was offered only for urban and rural areas. However, the G.O. covers only unapproved layouts in areas which do not fall under the elephant corridor and certain other parts. “There are about 570 villages in hill areas in the State and if ‘elephant corridors’, ‘ecologically sensitive areas’ and ‘landslide-prone areas’ are excluded, this G.O. would apply to about 300 villages,” he said. The order was only to benefit residential constructions and not commercial establishments, he added. However, advocate M. Vetri Selvan of Poovulagin Nanbargal, a forum for environmental protection, said that the order weakened the powers of the HACA. “When the government is yet to notify all the elephant corridors and announce the buffer zones around sanctuaries, how can it regularise unapproved layouts and plots? Should it not be the other way around?” he asked. He claimed that the G.O. was issued only to benefit a spiritual-religious organisation in Coimbatore. A senior official, nonetheless said, the plea of the organisation seeking exemption from the ambit of the HACA was a different matter that was being dealt with by the government. “This G.O. would not benefit that organisation,” the official insisted. Mr. Vetri Selvan claimed the organisation would indirectly benefit from the move. The order said that it was “considered necessary” to regularise unapproved layouts “in their entirety” by insisting to widen the roads, improve circulation, reserve areas for open space and public purpose to the extent feasible in each layout. Regularisation will be considered on a case-to-case basis depending on the NOC issued by the district-level officials of forests, geology and mining and agricultural engineering departments. Any or all plots that were sold and registered on or before October 20, 2016 were exempted from the operation of all the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Country Planning Act, 1971, according to the order. (The G.O. could be accessed at:bit.ly/TNGOregularisation)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-nod-to-regularise-unapproved-layouts-in-hilly-areas/article31242937.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater procures protective gear for field workers, steps up checks at facilities||Chennai Metrowater has procured about 250 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for its field workers, as a protective measure against COVID-19. The water agency operates nearly 5,500 trips, every day, across the city, including those on payment. To ensure safety of the workers, disinfectants are being sprayed using jetrodding machines, daily, at the filling points. Officials of Metrowater said that workers were provided masks, gloves and sanitisers and educated about precautionary measures. Many of them were also involved in disinfecting public places such as bus stands and markets. In zone 8, time keepers who allocate trips to lorry drivers are now provided protective suits. At distribution points like Kilpauk Water Works, temperature checks are done using hand-held thermometers for workers, including lorry drivers. “We are planning to buy more such kits for the field workers. We ensure that staff members do not work with illness. Elderly persons are discouraged from fetching water during street supply,” said an official. Moreover, lorry drivers are also told to practise physical distancing during allocation of trips, at the distribution stations. Nearly 700 lorries have been hired for tanker water supply and about 1,400 drivers and cleaners operate the trips. Meanwhile, lorry drivers noted that such protective gear must be uniformly provided at all water distribution stations. For instance, southern head works distribution station near Valluvar Kottam is yet to implement such preventive measures, fully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowater-procures-protective-gear-for-field-workers-steps-up-checks-at-facilities/article31242920.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||During a time of gloom, free tea and sympathy||It just takes a big heart, not money, to help people during times of crisis. An example of this, are two mobile tea-sellers, providing free tea to the homeless, sanitary workers and police personnel in West Mogappair, every day. Meet 32-year-old Abdul Rahim, a resident of Mogappair, who earns a living by selling tea on his moped. Every morning and evening, he leaves his house with a container full of tea, sufficient for 80 persons. “I was saddened by the plight of homeless persons, so I now provide tea, for free, to them. Besides, I also give it for free to conservancy staff and policemen, on duty in the locality. Some of them pay me, despite my reluctance to accept the cash,” said Mr. Rahim. A helping hand Similar is an initiative by 36-year-old mobile tea vendor Ayyan Sami. “I have been selling tea for the last 10 years. Before COVID-19, I used to supply tea to companies, and earn around Rs. 20,000 a month. But since all factories are shut, I sell tea on the road now,” he said. However, despite a low income, he supplies free tea to conservancy workers and the police. “Some of them pay me, saying that even I am a daily wage earner. But I don’t ask for money,” he said. Both their families are worried about their safety and insist that they do not leave the house. “If I don’t earn money, I cannot pay rent and manage household costs. However, I take necessary precautions and wear masks and gloves,” said Mr. Rahim. Both men ensure physical distancing, while selling tea. “I don’t allow anyone to crowd around the moped. Everyone must take efforts to remain safe,” added Mr. Sami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/during-a-time-of-gloom-free-tea-and-sympathy/article31242927.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Smaller reclassified plots can be registered’||Smaller agricultural plots, reclassified as housing plots, can be registered if the size of the land qualified within the definition of a ‘layout’ as spelt out by a 2017 Housing and Urban Department order, the Inspector General of Registration has said. In a communication to officials of the Registration Department, the IGR brought to their notice the G.O. Ms.No.78 issued by Housing and Urban Development Department on May 4, 2017. The G.O. described a ‘layout’ as “(i) division of land into plots exceeding eight in numbers in Chennai Metropolitan Planning area; (ii) division of land into plots by introducing a new road or street in areas other than Chennai Metropolitan Planning Area.” “There were some cases where the Sub-Registrar concerned did not register the land either for want of clarification or was not willing to register land in the absence of a specific rule. The clarification issued is to explain issues to them,” a senior official in the Registration Department told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smaller-reclassified-plots-can-be-registered/article31242938.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police release ‘gana’ video to raise awareness||The city police have released a video, with help from a few ‘gana’ songwriters, to spread awareness among residents about the dangers of the COVID-19 outbreak and preventive measures to be taken to protect people from the pandemic. The song is composed by ‘Gana’ Bala. The objective of making and releasing the video was to send the right message to people who live in the densely populated areas of north Chennai, in their own language, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Pulianthoppe, S. Rajesh Kannan said: “It is very difficult to keep people indoors during the lockdown and make them follow personal distancing. So we made a video song with help from a few ‘gana’ song composers,” he said.  The police have circulated the video over social media and mobile messaging platforms, among residents, police personnel and residents’ welfare associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-release-gana-video-to-raise-awareness/article31242917.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK suspends former MP||Former DMK MP K.P. Ramalingam, who was removed from the post of agriculture wing secretary recently, has been suspended from the primary membership of the party. A press release from party president M.K. Stalin said Mr. Ramalingam violated party discipline and brought disrepute to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-suspends-former-mp/article31242933.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBSE schools connect with students online||For students of Classes 10 and 12, who will be taking up the board examinations in 2021, CBSE schools in the city have resorted to classes over Zoom, video lessons and online tests to teach the syllabus for the upcoming year. CBSE schools generally conduct the first school term for a month before shutting down for the summer holidays. As part of the preventive measures taken to avoid the spread of COVID-19 however, all schools are currently shut till April 14. “For students who are going to Classes 10 and 12, our teachers have been taking classes on Zoom. Online classes can be tough for students to concentrate. So, we’ve scheduled only four hours per day,” said Asha Nathan, principal, Chennai Public School, Anna Nagar. Teachers at Everwin Vidhyashram have been asked to record one-hour video lessons in various subjects, said B. Purushothaman, senior principal, Everwin Group of Schools. At Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram, students have been given the option to take up online classes with their teachers through the week. P.G. Subramanian, principal said that once schools reopen, there should be no undue pressure on the students and teachers. In a circular, the CBSE has said that the board will consider the possible loss of instructional time due to closure of schools. “Revision if any, required in the syllabus and pattern of exams will be chalked out in consultation with course and exam committees and will be notified in due course of time,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-schools-connect-with-students-online/article31242934.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea in HC for doorstep delivery||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court for doorstep distribution of cash relief of Rs. 1,000 granted by the State government to ration cardholders. Advocate G. Rajesh has filed the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-hc-for-doorstep-delivery/article31242956.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM’s quick response||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has been active on Twitter, responding to those in crisis and interacting with Ministers and officials from other States. On Thursday, a Twitter handle named Jeet Solanki posted a message saying that people from the northeast, who are working and studying in Chennai and other cities, are facing problems. The Chief Minister responded saying Tamil Nadu will be neutral and secular when it comes to gender, caste, community and religion. “I believe that is the beauty of our State. If you can share any inconvenience, we will act on it immediately,” he said. In a second tweet, he said, “I have communicated to my team to take care of them – they will ensure their food and safety.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-quick-response/article31242961.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sops aimed at self- sufficiency’||The special package rolled out on Thursday for MSMEs to manufacture medical equipment is to ensure that the State becomes self-sufficient, a senior Industries Department official said. “Though we have masks and other equipment now, we are not sure how long this crisis will last. Instead of waiting for supplies from outside, the CM felt it was necessary that the State was self-sufficient,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sops-aimed-at-self-sufficiency/article31242953.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Food kits distributed to porters at Egmore railway station||Southern Railway officials have pitched in funds to procure rice and other commodities. This was put together in essential food kits and distributed to porters of the Egmore railway station. More than 130 food kits were distributed among porters Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-kits-distributed-to-porters-at-egmore-railway-station/article31242916.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Helplines for cancer||In light of the lockdown for prevention and control of COVID-19, oncology experts will provide teleconsultation services for persons with concerns and queries related to cancer and its treatment. Persons can call: 94428-15727, 98847-26806 and 80980-68911, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helplines-for-cancer/article31242925.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Doorstep banking||The Tamil Nadu State Cooperative Bank has launched the ‘TNSCB at your doorsteps’ service, by which customers in Chennai can get cash delivered at their houses, till the end of the COVID-19 lockdown. Consumers can avail a minimum cash withdrawal of Rs. 2,000 and a maximum of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doorstep-banking/article31242929.ece
03 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three more containment zones demarcated in Coimbatore||With 28 fresh cases of COVID-19 being confirmed on Wednesday, three more containment zones have been demarcated in Coimbatore. The number of containment zones rose to six, and the total number of positive cases stood at 34. The new containment zones are in Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Anamalai from where 27 out of the 28 cases were reported. All the 27 persons had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin which was declared as COVID-19 hot spot in Delhi . The Health Department had already demarcated containment zones at K.K. Pudur, Podanur and Ukkadam. A senior official from the department said each containment zone would cover a five km radius with the houses of confirmed/suspected cases as the epicentre. The containment zone would be covered by a buffer zone of two km. At Mettuapalayam, the containment zone’s epicentre has the houses of 21 persons who tested positive on Wednesday. This containment zone and buffer zone cover the entire town of Mettupalayam and 28 of the 33 wards of the municipality. As many as 32 persons from Mettupalayam had attended the religious conference and 11 tested negative. At Anamalai, from where five persons contracted the virus, the containment zone primarily covers two wards. The containment zone at Pollachi was demarcated around the residences of two persons who tested positive. Ukkadam was declared a containment zone as 17 persons from the Coimbatore Corporation limit, mainly from Ukkadam, were found to have attended the religious conference. Similarly nine persons from Annur also attended the event. The results of these 26 persons are awaited. K.K. Pudur and Podanur were declared containment zones as they had one and five confirmed cases of COVID-19 respectively. Health Department staff, including medical officers, health inspectors, sanitary inspectors, village health nurses, sector health nurses and volunteers, are conducting house-to-house visit in the containment zones to check whether anyone has symptoms of COVID-19 such as fever, cold, cough, sore throat and breathlessness, said the official. Those found with these flu-like symptoms and the close contacts of those who tested positive for COVID-19 will have to remain in home quarantine for 28 days. The Department has so far traced 82 persons from Coimbatore who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference and 70 of them, including those who tested positive, were under observation in various hospitals. The official said that several persons who attended the religious conference came forward to report it to the department and cooperated with it. Containment zones in Namakkal After 18 COVID-19 positive cases, all attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamudddin, were reported in Namakkal on Tuesday, officials have declared three areas in Namakkal and two areas in Rasipuram and one area near Paramathi Velur as containment zones. Health officials have advised house quarantine for the patients’ kin. Somasundaram, Deputy Director, Health Services said that the areas had been cordoned off and the kin of patients advised to be in house quarantine. As many as 101 persons had been quarantined.  (With inputs from   Vignesh Vijayakumar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-containment-zones-demarcated-in-coimbatore/article31242974.ece
03 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Experts stress on overall care of children during pandemic||Concern over children, especially newborns, in the time of COVID-19 pandemic is what keeps mothers bothered the most in the last several weeks. This was accelerated when a 10-month-old baby contracted COVID-19 from the mother in Coimbatore. Experts in paediatrics and parenting call for a concerted approach to keep children safe from the risks of contracting COVID-19. The first and foremost thing parents can do for the well-being of children is to maintaining personal hygiene and wash hands with soap/handwash, says senior paediatrician M. Ramaswamy. As parents and elders go out to purchase essential items and for essential services, they should take precautionary measures while going out and cleanse themselves before interacting with children. “A healthy child of the age of six months to five years is likely to develop cough or cold at least six times a year. The immune system responds well to these respiratory conditions. Parents can wait for three-four days if these ailments are mild or seek medical advice of a doctor. Children should be taken to a doctor if such ailments persist for five days or more. Always book for the appointment of a doctor for consultation to avoid idle time in hospital or clinic,” he says. According to B. Lakshmi Shanthi, a consultant paediatrician and former office-bearer of Indian Academy of Paediatrics, infants come under the high-risk category, hence are better safe at home. “Minor ailments such as runny nose, loose stools etc., can be dealt with tele-consultation with their regular paediatrician. Red alert symptoms would be high fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for which immediate consultation should be sought. Those opting for vaccination in government centres can do so in the allotted days. Outreach vaccination has been deferred. Those opting to vaccinate in clinics may face difficulties as a majority of private clinics are closed. They can contact their respective paediatrician and decide on the same. Optional vaccines can be deferred and parents should understand that postponing routine vaccination in this time of crisis will not harm the child,” she says. According to her, infants can be engaged with age-appropriate games and the elder siblings can be entrusted with the responsibility of taking care of them. Parents of elder children can explain to them the present situation, the virus, the mode of spread and preventive strategies in an age-appropriate manner. “Involve the children in cleaning and cooking activities, however small their role may be. Set simple rules for a sleep routine, specific time slots for watching TV, games, reading books etc,. Encourage them to read books or to write a story. They can also be involved in art work and ‘do it yourself’ projects like preparing cloth masks,” she adds. If children need to play in neighbour’s house, parents should make sure that no one in the neighbourhood is sick or has travelled to COVID-10 affected places recently. Parents can also advise them about physical distancing and avoid display of affection with friends through hugging and kissing. After coming back from other houses, make them wash their hands and feet thoroughly before entering the house. They can teach children proper hand hygiene, cough and sneeze etiquette. Children should also be encouraged to involve themselves in age-appropriate fitness activities. “Millions of children have a new situation because of the lockdown where they are not only at home but mostly confined indoors; their daily association with fellow children disrupted while adults watch on them with heightened anxiety,” says Kezevino Aram, director of Shanti Ashram. According to D. Srinivsan, consultant psychiatrist with KMCH, mental well-being is also as important as physical care. “Get away from stress, stay calm and seize this rare gift of time to deepen your relationships with your family, especially your children. This is as an opportunity to hit the refresh button”, he says. The biggest concern discussed in a recent virtual support group that Coimbatore Parenting Network (CPN) had for parents was keeping the high-spirited children occupied and about parenting with gentleness, says Gotha Hari Priya, a Family Life Coach and trustee of CPN. According to her, parents should keep a tab on their screen time and more importantly keep an eye on the content that they are watching on TV. A lot of aggression and restlessness in children stems from here, she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-stress-on-overall-care-of-children-during-pandemic/article31242992.ece
03 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Case registered for sending fake message||The Ukkadam police on Monday registered a case in connection with a fake message circulated among WhatsApp users which said that more than 2,000 persons contracted COVID-19 through the staff of a restaurant. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by Mohammed Muthu of HMR Restaurant. The fake message circulated in WhatsAapp said that 47 employees of the restaurant contracted COVID-19 from foreigners who ate at the restaurant. It said that the disease was then spread to 265 persons who dined at the restaurant, 26 food delivery agents who picked parcels and more than 1,300 persons who ate the home delivered food. The case was registered under Sections 188, 504 of the IPC read with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The police are yet to trace the accused, who spread the fake message. 595 violators held As many as 595 persons were arrested in Coimbatore on Wednesday for violating the prohibitory order. The Coimbatore City Police arrested 109 persons in 107 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered-for-sending-fake-message/article31242991.ece
03 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries urged to provide food, shelter to migrant workers||Industries and labour contractors should ensure that the inter-State workers they have employed here have proper accommodation and food during the lockdown period, in line with an order issued by the State Government, District Collector K. Rajamani has said in a release. All industries, shops, restaurants and eateries, commercial establishments and builders should provide proper accommodation and food to the workers. If the labourers are staying in congested areas, they should be shifted to spacious locations so that they are able to maintain personal distancing. The Collector will monitor these and officials from the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health will inspect the premises. Mr. Rajamani told The Hindu that food requirements of almost all the workers had been taken care of in the district. Even one or two requests for food are followed up. These are mostly for smaller groups of eight to 10 people. Another official said that the administration consulted the police and ensured that all areas where migrant workers resided had been covered for food distribution. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association R. Ramamurthy said the industry associations and owners had taken collective and individual efforts to meet the food needs of the workers. Almost all the industries have already paid the workers an advance or supplied them with provisions for food preparation. Apart from this, some of them are supplying provisions to common kitchens of the district administration. This is mostly for daily wagers who were not employed with a particular company, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-urged-to-provide-food-shelter-to-migrant-workers/article31242980.ece
03 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Policeman suspended for assaulting fuel outlet staff||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police transferred a policeman after he allegedly broke the hand of fuel station employee who refused to give him petrol after 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday. Madappan, a head constable attached to the Sulur police station, was transferred to the rural armed police for allegedly breaking the hand of Ashok Raja (26), an employee at the fuel station near Sulur. The policeman went to the fuel station in plainclothes around 3 p.m. on Wednesday to fill petrol in his two-wheeler. Mr. Raja said he could provide fuel as the outlets were not supposed to function after 2.30 p.m. as per Government order. The policeman allegedly took the employee to the police station with the help of two other policemen and assaulted him. Mr. Raja was admitted to a private hospital with a fracture in his left hand. Probe ordered On coming to know of the incident, Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar transferred Madappan to the rural armed police. An inquiry was also ordered into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-suspended-for-assaulting-fuel-outlet-staff/article31242994.ece
03 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||516 foreign returnees in quarantine||As many as 516 persons, who returned from foreign countries, are in house quarantine in Namakkal district, said Somasundaram, Deputy Director, Health Services, here on Thursday. The district administration has dedicated government hospitals in Namakkal, Rasipuram and Tiruchengode for COVID-19 treatment. The administration has also taken up two private hospitals in Namakkal and one in Tiruchengode for the purpose. Officials said that those undergoing treatment for non-communicable diseases, and dialysis at Namakkal GH would be treated free of cost at Maharaja Hospital here. Arrangements had been made in three hospitals in Tiruchengode - Surya Hospital, S.P.M.Hospital and Jaya Hospital - to attend to pregnancy and other emergency cases from Tiruchengode government hospital. Aravind Hospital here had been arranged for emergency accident cases. Those undergoing dialysis at Tiruchengode GH would be treated at Vivekananda Hospital. The primary health centre at Pillanallur had been arranged to attend to pregnancy and other emergency cases from Rasipuram GH. Manikam Hospital here would be providing dialysis for those from Rasipuram GH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/516-foreign-returnees-in-quarantine/article31242982.ece
03 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. initiates measures to ensure personal distancing at vegetable market||The Corporation on Thursday took steps to ensure that personal distancing is followed both by the shopkeepers and the public at the vegetable and fruit market that functions in the central bus stand here. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan along with officials allotted space for each shopkeeper. On Thursday, people stood in long queue till GH Roundabout as they were allowed only in batches inside the premises. This ensured that the market was not overcrowded and personal distancing was maintained by people. Also, people were seen moving freely inside the premises. “Though we have to wait, we can purchase fast now,” said M. Santhosh Kumar from Sampath Nagar. He said that people failed to follow personal distancing for the past three days. “It is the responsibility of people to ensure personal distancing as a precautionary measure for all,” he added. Though waited in queue, people said that there was no risk now as personal distancing was ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-initiates-measures-to-ensure-personal-distancing-at-vegetable-market/article31242968.ece
03 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of cash, commodities to ration cardholders begins||The distribution of financial assistance of Rs. 1,000, and essential commodities free of cost to 6.84 lakh rice cardholders through 1,146 ration shops in the district began here on Thursday. Only 50 persons were allowed to receive the assistance in the morning while another 50 were allowed in the afternoon. To ensure personal distancing, markings were done in front of the shops. However, at many shops personal distancing norms were flouted and the supervisor at the shop had a tough time in warning people. At Rayarpalayam, chairs were provided to the cardholders and those were placed one metre away from each other. Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the distribution at ration shops at Karungalpalayam and Kollampalayam located in the quarantined area. He said the distribution began at 1,146 ration shops, including 1,125 shops run by Cooperative Department, 15 shops run by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, three shops run by self-help groups and three mobile shops to cover 6,84,192 cardholders. Only essential commodities were given to 33,951 sugar cardholders, he added. Mr. Kathiravan asked people to ensure personal distancing while standing at the shops. He also requested them to purchase essential items, except milk, on weekly basis and stay at home to prevent spread of COVID-19. Salem/ Namakkal The public queued up braving the scorching sun to receive the ration supplies and cash relief of Rs. 1,000 at the ration shops here. Collector S.A.Raman inspected the distribution at a ration shop in Pallapatti and a few other places. Mr. Raman said that 100 tokens were distributed a day and people need not go to the ration shops to get the tokens as they would be distributed at their doorsteps. Spots had been highlighted at specified distance to ensure personal distancing and the public should adhere to it. Soap and water had also been made available outside shops to ensure hygiene. He added that relief materials would be distributed to 9,76,623 families, including 882 Sri Lankan refugee families. Mr. Raman said there were over 1,400 people with foreign travel history and 136 families linked to Delhi Nizamuddin event in home quarantine in the district and relief materials would be supplied to their houses. While people did follow the personal distancing norms at some places, at a few places, they were seen standing close to each other, forgetting the designated spots. At a ration shop in Peramanur, the public left their bags at the spots and grouped under shades. In Sooramangalam, they crowded around officials who came to distribute tokens. In Namakkal, relief materials would be distributed to 5,08,792 rice cardholders and 681 Sri Lankan refugee families at 925 ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-cash-commodities-to-ration-cardholders-begins/article31242971.ece
03 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Quarantined man sells milk at Aavin outlet for two days||A 37-year-old man who was under home quarantine at Kallukadaimedu in the city was found selling milk at an Aavin outlet in Periyar Nagar for the past two days. The man is a resident of Muthukumaraswamy Street in the Kallukadaimedu area that was cordoned off after a few COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the past two weeks. On Thursday, consumers found his hand stamped with the “home quarantine” seal and alerted the officials. An official team picked him up from his residence in the evening and took him to Government IRT Perundurai Medical College and Hospital for testing. Officials said that no symptoms were initially found in him, but added that only after test results, doctors would decide the further course of action. Inquiries revealed that he was selling milk for the past two days and a complaint was lodged with police to take action against him. An inquiry is on to know how he left the area where barricades were placed and police were posted round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarantined-man-sells-milk-at-aavin-outlet-for-two-days/article31242975.ece
03 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||42 admitted to isolation ward||Forty two patients were admitted to the isolation wards in Government Medical College Hospital here, said Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar. Of them 38 were men and five women. Nine of them were admitted to the hospital on Tuesday night. Speaking to reporters after visiting the streets which have been declared as restricted areas in Karur and Kulithalai on Wednesday, Mr. Vijayabhaskar said that swab specimens of 28 patients affected with cold, fever and breathing difficulties have been sent to Tiruvarur for laboratory test. The results were awaited. Most of them had returned to Karur district after attending the Islamic conference at Nizamuddin. The condition of a 42-year-old patient of Kulithalai, who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus, was stable. A person of Thogamalai in Karur district, who too had tested positive for COVID-19 virus, was undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. The Minister said that the residential colonies and streets of those who have been put in the isolation wards, have been cordoned off as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the virus. Notice boards have been put up on all corners of the streets concerned to indicate that they were restricted for public access. Similarly, 7 km radius of the COVID-19 positive patients were brought under the close surveillance of the health and the respective local bodies control. Door-to- door survey on fever and cold affected patients was on in the identified areas. Collector T. Anbalagan said that 6,000 workers had been drafted for disinfection and door-to-door survey in the district. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh had been allocated for acquiring hand-held machine sprayers. Sixteen vehicles of the Karur and Kulithalai municipalities have been pressed into service for disinfection drive. A total of 188 homeless persons were rescued and given shelter at the Government Higher Secondary School in Thanthoni. They were being fed thrice a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-admitted-to-isolation-ward-karur-district/article31243270.ece
03 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Karur firm flooded with orders for manufacturing PPE||At a time when demand for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) has reached an all time high in the country in the wake of spread of COVID 19 virus, a Karur based medical textile company has launched an exclusive unit, in association with Avanifeltz Inc, Karur, to produce PPE. Considering the importance of providing PPE to the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff while treating COVID-19 positive patients, the district administration has given special permission to run the unit by employing sufficient workers. The company, Abinav Fabrics, which is into the manufacturing of hospital linen materials for 15 years, had hardly received orders for PPE, earlier. But, now it has received orders for hundreds of PPE from various government and private hospitals across the country. To meet the immediate requirements, it has employed nearly 200 workers for stitching PPE made up of non woven poly coated material. Besides it has roped in a few more persons to stitch PPE in Karur and Manapparai so as to meet the emergency. “We need specially trained people to stitch PPEs. There are difficulties in identifying them. But, we have managed to find a group of persons. We follow all safety precaution while manufacturing the PPEs”, said P. Nallamuthu, Managing Director of the company. At present it produces 1500 PPEs daily. It plans to scale up production by 3,000 a day within a week. Collector T. Anbalagan, who visited the Abinav Fabrics on Tuesday, said that the manufacturers had been asked to meet the requirements of Karur and other parts of the State before meeting the demand from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-firm-flooded-with-ppe-orders/article31243274.ece
03 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘3-month moratorium on loan repayment a punishment’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has wondered whether the three-month moratorium on repayment of loans announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is a relief or a punishment for the common man. After leaders of various political parties made a demand for a moratorium on loan repayment for three EMIs, the RBI made the announcement. However, the euphoria of the common man over the moratorium announced to benefit those affected by COVID-19 lockdown turned short-lived after the State Bank of India made an announcement on its website explaining its implications. The bank said that the moratorium for someone who had taken a car loan of Rs. 6 lakh with a pending repayment for 54 months would mean that he would end up paying an additional amount of Rs. 19,000, which would be equal to an additional one and a half EMIs, Mr. Venkatesan said in a statement issued here. Similarly, for those who had taken a home loan of Rs. 30 lakh for a 15-year period, the non-payment of three EMIs would entail an additional payment of Rs. 2.34 lakh or eight additional EMIs. “This has proved that the moratorium of the RBI was not a relief but a punishment,” the MP said. On the pretext of giving some relief to the middle class people, who were in a pitiable situation, the RBI had snatched the little left in their hands. All that the people wanted was that even if they did not pay three instalments their loan term should be extended by only three months with the same EMI. In this hour of crisis, the governments should ensure that the people were not forced to shoulder any additional burden, Mr. Venkatesan said and appealed for reconsideration of the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-month-moratorium-on-loan-repayment-a-punishment/article31243284.ece
03 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, grocers in Madurai face an avalanche of door delivery orders||With the restriction in outdoor movement of people due to the 21-day lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the demand for home delivery of groceries across the city is on the rise. While residents complain that grocery stores are irregular in delivering products at home, store owners say they receive hundreds of orders every day and are under-resourced to attend to all of them within a given time. Earlier, Madurai Corporation had released a list 30 grocery stores from across the city which will deliver products at the doorstep. Customers can make a call to place the order and the products would be delivered the next day. However, the mobile numbers are usually busy or they are not reachable, complains R. Jeyaprakash of Kannanendhal. “Even when we place the order, the store owners say many products are not available,” he says. R. Jayachitra of Uthangudi complains that only orders above Rs. 2,000 are accepted for home delivery by a nearby grocery store. “Even at local small-scale grocery stores, the prices of pulses are being sold at a rate higher than the fixed maximum retail price,” she rues. On the other hand, the grocery stores are overburdened and under-staffed to meet the growing demand. A a staff from the K.K. Nagar branch of Reliance Fresh says, “Each day we attend to 400 phone calls till 11 p.m., the reason why customers find our lines busy.” ‘Stopped taking orders’ Ashiq, store manager of Vasantham Stores ar Koodal Nagar, says that with three delivery vehicles they can deliver only 50% of the orders. “We have stopped taking orders for the last two days as we already have around 150 pending deliveries. Due to the lockdown, we are unable to replenish many branded products,” he says. Some of the residents say one way to tackle the problem will be to accept orders through Whatsapp and encourage digital payment. Then customers can pick up the take-away grocery bag from the departmental stores. For those who cannot come to the shop, they can be delivered at home, suggests a shopkeeper. V.P. Manikandan of S.S. Colony suggests that like vegetables, groceries can also be sold through mobile vending outlets.. “Residents must also understand the situation and avoid hoarding essential groceries,” he says. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan says they are taking many initiatives to ensure that residents can easily buy fruits and vegetables. “After the successful sales of vegetable bags at Rs. 200, we have decided to introduce another pack for Rs. 100 to expand the service. We are also planning to facilitate selling of fruit bags for Rs. 100,” he says. “People must understand the gravity of the pandemic and can only visit nearby shops to buy essential groceries,” he says.   Too many to serve  Shops are understaffed and so overburdened  Due to lockdown, shops are unable to replenish branded products  Orders through Whatsapp and digital payment are sought||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-grocers-in-madurai-face-an-avalanche-of-door-delivery-orders/article31243283.ece
03 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Security guards go about their work as usual||With the government urging people to stay indoors in the wake of the spread of COVID-19, the day-to-day routine has changed for people en masse, except for security guards. Wearing face masks, these men report for duty as usual and stand guard outside establishments even in these trying times. While some say it is their ‘duty,’ others say they may have to face a pay cut if they do not report for duty. They say despite adverse conditions, they must report for work and the routine duties have not changed much, but for the protective mask they wear. S. Nagoor, a security guard, says he works in a hotel on shifts. He cycles from Pandikoil to the hotel every day wearing a surgical mask. “Initially we were questioned by the police, but now we wear uniforms and badges for identification,” he says. Another guard, Caleb Pandian, says most of them were aged above 50. “We read reports that people coming under our age group are vulnerable to the virus. We have no option but to work to make ends meet,” he says. Echoing his view is T. Davis Sharp, who represented the State football team. He says in his place of work, masks and sanitisers are provided. But one has to take care of personal safety. “Though we have been given the protective gear, we get our salary only after the first week of every month. Only then can we buy groceries and medicines for the family,” says J. William Robert who cycles to his place of work in K.K. Nagar from Iravathanallur. He says he will face pay cut if he goes on leave. R.K. Raman, a supervisor of a security agency, says his agency has instructed the security guards on the precautionary measures to be followed. “We have asked them to wear the uniform and use face mask while going to work. Only then the police will recognise and not question them,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-guards-go-about-their-work-as-usual/article31243280.ece
03 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Counselling over phone||Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation for Social, Legal Studies and Development, Fatima College and Action Aid have come together to conduct counselling for people in distress in the wake of COVID-19 spread. S. Selvagomathy, Managing Trustee of the Foundation, said the counsellors had been identified by them and the counselling, to be offered through phone, would be open to men, women and children in need of help. People could contact 24-hour helplines 9843460061, 9894611838 or 9524318207, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-over-phone/article31243278.ece
03 April 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Deep sea fishermen stare at heavy loss in Nagercoil||Fishermen who are returning to the shores from deep sea stay fishing during the lockdown are on the verge of facing a huge loss with no traders at fishing harbours to purchase the fishes harvested since February. More than 500 mechanised boats from western Kanniyakumari district had set sail for deep sea stay fishing in February. The boats have started arriving in the harbours with their catch. “Around 100 boats have already reached the shore with fishes worth about Rs. 12 crore and the remaining boats are on their way to the shore. In all, the boats are now carrying Rs. 70 crore-worth fishes. Since the fishermen ventured into the sea several weeks before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, they will suffer a huge loss if they cannot sell the fishes. Hence, the State government should make immediate arrangements to sell the fishes,” said Sunil Sabariar of Vallavilai. MLA Mano Thangaraj said that over 6,000 mechanised boat fishermen from the district, who were involved in deep sea stay fishing, had started returning to the shore ahead of the Holy Week with their catch. Since nationwide lockdown had been clamped in view of COVID-19 outbreak, no trader would come to the fishing harbours to purchase the fishes, he added. “Since the lockdown will prevent the traders from reaching the fishing harbours, the fishermen will be in need of a lot of ice bars to preserve the fishes until the situation normalises. Hence, the district administration should make necessary arrangements to either sell the entire catch or preserve the fishes,” Mr. Thangaraj said. He also said the district administration should keep ready medical facilities to test the fishermen coming to the shore for COVID–19 after prolonged stay in sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deep-sea-fishermen-stare-at-heavy-loss-in-nagercoil/article31243266.ece
03 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal youth dies in Telangana||A 23-year-old youth, who stayed in a camp at Secundrabad, died on Thursday. Officials said the youth was identified as B.Logesh, a software engineer in Nagpur. Following the lockdown, he managed to reach till Secundrabad on March 30 in a truck. He stayed along with a few others from Tamil Nadu in the camp in Secundrabad and he died reportedly due to heart attack. The Marredpally police recovered the body. Following autopsy, the body has been sent to his village near Pallipalayam here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-youth-dies-in-telangana/article31242981.ece
03 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against two scribes||The Pudukottai Town Police has registered a case against two journalists, including one working for a popular Tamil daily, in Pudukottai for allegedly trying to extort money from the Designated Officer, Food Safety and Standards Authority, Pudukottai. The case was booked on March 31 against Kodiyarasan – reporter of a Tamil daily working in Pudukottai and Saravanan of an online Tamil news magazine based on a complaint preferred by R. Ramesh Babu- the Designated Officer. In the complaint, Dr. Ramesh Babu claimed that a wrong news against him with a view to defaming his reputation was carried by Saravanan in the online magazine last month. Mr. Ramesh Babu further stated that Saravanan’s friend Kodiyarasan had contacted him claiming that more news against the Designated Officer would be published unless he paid Rs. 20,000 to both of them. Mr. Babu said he had lodged a complaint with the Superintendent of Police along with the audio recording of the telephonic conversations he had with them. Police sources said a case under IPC section 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion) had been registered against Saravanan and Kodiyarasan by the Pudukottai Town Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-against-two-scribes/article31243307.ece
03 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Case against scribes||Pudukottai Town Police has registered a case against Kodiyarasan, reporter of a Tamil daily, and Saravanan of an online Tamil news magazine, for allegedly trying to extort money from the Designated Officer, Food Safety and Standards Authority, Pudukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-scribes/article31243275.ece
03 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. to shift meat, fish shops to outskirts on weekends||The Corporation Commissioner has banned the meat and fish shops here from functioning within the Corporation limits on weekends from April 4. The shops would have to function at an alternative place identified by the Corporation on the outskirts of the city, a release said. Despite warnings and awareness programmes, huge crowd turn up at meat shops during weekends, failing to ensure personal distancing. To prevent the spread of COVID-19, the government ordered to let the meat and fish shops function only on the outskirts. In the release, Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh said the shops would have to operate at a place identified near Arabic College on Omalur Main Road here until further orders. Parking facility had been arranged on the premises of the IT Park. Traders had been instructed to ensure personal distancing and ten teams had been formed under the Corporation Assistant Commissioners to monitor these shops during weekends. Mr. Sadheesh warned that legal action would be taken against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-to-shift-meat-fish-shops-to-outskirts-on-weekends/article31242979.ece
03 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||University gives mental health tips||The Department of Psychology of Periyar University has given a few tips for better mental health amid COVID-19 fears and lockdown. According to a release, the public have been advised to distance themselves from COVID-19 news and not to browse internet for disease symptoms. They have been advised to stop sending death related messages. The public have been advised to listen to music and spend time with children, play with them, and discuss their future goals. People are told to wash their hands and use reminders to ensure it. The public can contact the Psychology department professors at 94434 96299, 9994620123 and 80126 98558 for further advice between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-gives-mental-health-tips/article31242978.ece
03 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Adigalar donates Rs. 6 lakh||Kundrakudi Adigalar donated Rs. six lakh towards the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. According to a press release, Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan received the cheque from the Mutt Head. The Central and State governments had appealed to the public to liberally contribute towards fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adigalar-donates-rs-6-lakh/article31243276.ece
03 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Dole reaches those residing in restricted areas||Distribution of Rs. 1,000 in cash as COVID-19 relief assistance distribution along with ration allotment to the smart cardholders commenced in Thanjavur district on Thursday with special teams distributing the assistance at the doorsteps of people residing in the restricted areas sealed for public movement at Kumbakonam. Delivery of relief assistance at the doorsteps in six wards situated around the Madhappa Lane in Kumbakonam, from where a COVID-19 positive case had been reported, would be implemented in such a manner that 100 houses would be covered in each ward per day, according to official sources. In other wards in Kumbakonam and as well as in other areas in the district, tokens have been issued to the smart cardholders so that they could draw their ration and avail the cash assistance in person at the date and time mentioned in the token. In Tiruvarur district, elaborate arrangements have been made for the distribution of relief assistance through 723 PDS outlets as per the directions of the State government, sources said.   Pudukottai The exercise of distribution of C0VID-19 cash dole and essential commodities free of cost to ration cardholders commenced in the district on Thursday. The district administration had issued tokens to the cardholders at their respective residence in the wake of COVID-19 and to check its spread. Cash and essential commodities free of cost would be given at the respective shops within 15 days, an official release said. Steps had been taken to distribute this to 100 persons in each shop. Official sources said personal distancing was ensured at the shops with markings made in front of the PDS outlets. The district administration has appealed to the people to go to the respective shops at the timing mentioned in the tokens issued to them and ensure personal distancing. Essential commodities and cash would be distributed through 1,022 ration shops to over 4.5 lakh cardholders in the district, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dole-reaches-those-residing-in-restricted-areas/article31243313.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of cash relief begins in central districts||Confusion prevailed at some of the ration shops in the city as disbursement of cash relief for family cardholders began on Thursday as many without tokens queued up to receive financial assistance and their ration. While instructions were given for the public to stay home until tokens are handed over to them, many seemed to be unaware of this and rushed to the ration shops. Several fair price shops in the city threw open their gates on Thursday morning for cardholders who were to receive Rs. 1,000 as financial assistance announced by the Tamil Nadu government in view of the lockdown, along with essential commodities such as rice and dhal. A token system was identified to keep a check on overcrowding and maintaining personal distance. White circles were drawn outside the shops and a PVC pipe was installed to ensure that the ration was not touched by the shop in-charge. However, a section of the public who were unaware of the token system waited in line at the shops and were turned away. “We were told that someone would come to our house and give us tokens. We waited but nobody came. At the PDS shop they asked us to return home and said that the tokens would be sent to our houses,” said M. Bharathi, a resident of Woraiyur. Another resident said that despite hearing announcements that the token would be distributed at the residences, their PDS shop was giving it at the counter itself. “My neighbour informed me that I had to go get it at the shop. So I had to rush in the morning to ensure that I get a token. Now, I must wait for my turn. When they are asking us to stay indoors, how many times must we visit the ration shops?” P. Ishwarya asked. Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies, G. P. Arularasu said that the distribution began smoothly across the district. “We can iron out the confusion, if there is any, in the coming days,” he said. Time slots are being given to all cardholders and they are requested to visit the shop only at that time, Mr. Arularasu said. “Only 13 people are allowed per hour at a fair price shop. In a day, only 104 people will be entertained,” he said. As many as 7,84,587 rice cardholders and Sri Lankan refugees would get the dole. All ration card holders would also be supplied essential commodities such as rice, dhal, cooking oil and sugar free of cost for the month of April. The dole and essential commodities would be distributed through 1,224 ration shops in the district. The disbursement of the money and commodities are planned in phases – initially from April 2 to 4, April 6 to 8 and April 10 to 12. Nagapattinam About 4.70 lakh ration cardholders would be disbursed the cash relief of Rs.1000 and essential commodities in Nagapattinam district. The dole and commodities would be disbursed through 777 ration shops. Tokens are being issued to the eligible cardholders door to door and cardholders can visit the shops at the time and date specified in the tokens to receive the cash and commodities, Collector Praveen P.Nair said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-cash-relief-begins-in-central-districts/article31243316.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop to convert 110 coaches into isolation bogies||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop at Tiruchi has been entrusted with the task of converting 110 passenger coaches into quarantine / isolation coaches in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The over 80-year-old workshop has began working on the task given to it by the Railway Board. Non-airconditioned three-tier and general class coaches which were more than 15-year-old are being used for the conversion. The conversion works were being done as per the specifications given by the Railway Board. Teams of technical personnel of the workshop had been deployed for this task inside the huge establishment which has remained shut since the lockdown was announced to check the spread of COVID-19. The workshop has already converted seven to eight non AC coaches into quarantine / isolation coaches and awaiting a few more items to be fitted prior to dispatching them, a senior workshop official told The Hindu on Thursday. The middle berths have been removed in each cabin and the Indian style toilet converted into a bathroom as part of the conversion works. Extra bottle holders have been provided in each cabin for holding medical equipment with two for each berth. Suitable clamping arrangements made inside the cabin for provision of oxygen cylinders by the Medical Department. The officer said each cabin had been provided with three dustbins with foot operated lids of red, blue and yellow colour and lined with garbage bags. All charging points for laptop and mobile phones have been made functional in these coaches. The first cabin near the bathing room would be used as store / paramedics area. The workshop has in its possession around 40 coaches for conversion into quarantine / isolation coaches, the officer said adding that the Railway Board had given one week’s time to convert all coaches. The workshop had already made 60 mild steel cots for the Divisional Railway Hospital at Tiruchi and Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital at Perambur in Chennai in the wake of COVID-19. Ten cots had been provided to the divisional railway hospital at Tiruchi and the remaining 50 to the railway headquarters hospital. The Railway Board in a recent communication had asked the Southern Railway to convert 473 coaches into quarantine /isolation coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/110-coaches-to-turn-isolation-bogies/article31243271.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Food delivery boys zipp again, donning face masks||App-based food delivery aggregators resumed services on Wednesday evening after inspections and training was given to all employees on functioning during the curfew. The employees were also given face masks and hand sanitisers to ensure hygiene is maintained. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced last week that the delivery services would be allowed as many residents, especially bachelors and the elderly who depend on it for cooked food. However, fixed timings - 7 a.m. to 9.30 a.m., noon to 2.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. must be maintained by both Swiggy and Zomato. The district administration in Tiruchi issued special identity cards for the delivery persons so that police personnel would allow them to travel across the city. A representative of a popular vegetarian restaurant in Cantonment, which is said to receive the highest number of orders in the city, said that the orders were slowly picking up. “Regular users have begun placing orders since Wednesday night. The App is sending out notifications to inform users that food is now available,” he said. “We are also not allowing the delivery persons inside our kitchen and have set up a delivery area near the entrance from where they can pick up the order”, he said. Zomato has introduced a special feature, which declares whether the restaurant complies with the norms laid out by the WHO on personal distancing and hygiene. “Only a handful of restaurants have volunteered to stay open. Among them, more than half comply with the required standards. We are also constantly checking on whether the standards are being met or not,” a representative of Zomato said. The Apps are also providing ‘contact-less delivery’ where, if opted, the delivery person will leave the bag of food at the customer’s door step. This service is available for prepaid deliveries. G. Renganathan, president, Tiruchi District Hotels Assn., said that the number of orders and the number of restaurants which are open are significantly low. “ Some people depend on hotel food. They have allowed us to open keeping them in mind,” he said.  Moreover, most people, are afraid of purchasing from the delivery services and prefer home cooked food at this time, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-delivery-boys-zipp-again-donning-face-masks/article31243302.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civic body reaches out to the homeless||Tiruchi Corporation with the support of local NGOs is distributing food to nearly 5,000 people, including roadside vendors, homeless and workers of a few essential services. Three locations have been earmarked across three zones of the city corporation from where the food is being cooked and distributed. The three locations – Kalaiarangam, Thevar Hall and Amma Mandapam – have been identified by the civic body where volunteers can use the utensils to cook, and pack individual packets of food which will be distributed. At the Kalaiarangam venue, 30 clubs of the Lions Club International have taken up the work. “Each unit makes and distributes about 1,500 packets of food. The food is made at the community kitchen and volunteers transport them to various locations across the city were people in need of food, have been identified,” said a volunteer. Speaking to The Hindu , S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said that the distribution was scaled up after the need was identified. “Until last week we had been serving about 1,500 packets in total. However, many street vendors and migrant workers are in need of help,” he said. Of the 5,000 food packets, about 100-150 packets are also being distributed to healthcare workers at a private hospital. Nearly 50 packets are being given to migrant workers while another 300-400 packets are given to women self-help groups, who are assisting the civic body in door-to-door surveys and COVID-19 awareness campaigns. The civic body is supplying nearly 25 kilos of rice per day for this exercise. “We are using the general fund of civic body. At this time, we cannot be waiting for sanction of special funds,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-reaches-out-to-the-homeless/article31243304.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC distributes food to the needy||The Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), the catering arm of the railway network, has been supplying food to the underprivileged sections in the wake of the nation-wide lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19. At Tiruchi Junction, meals were prepared and distributed to more than 1,500 persons in plates in the last three days. Variety rice such as lemon rice, tomato rice and tamarind rice were distributed to the underprivileged at various places in Tiruchi. This was done in consultation with the State government officials. Food which was prepared at the base kitchen at Tiruchi Junction was distributed by the Railway Protection Force personnel, observing personal distancing. The IRCTC was gearing up to provide free food during the lockdown period, a Southern Railway official here said. Grocery items donated Members of the Makkal Shakthi Iyakkam donated grocery items to daily-wage labourers in the city on Thursday. A total of 50 families, including parents of students studying at the Senthaneerpuram Corporation Higher Secondary School received bags containing rice, dal, sugar, semolina, salt, turmeric, washing and bathing soaps among other essentials. The donation was funded by volunteers of Makkal Shakthi Iyakkam and the teachers and headmistress of the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-distributes-food-to-the-needy/article31243306.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Test results of 120 patients awaited||Test results of 120 patients, admitted to the isolation ward at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, here are awaited, hospital authorities said on Thursday evening. A majority of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin. Blood samples and throat swabs have been lifted for 119 patients, including 12 patients, who were admitted to the isolation ward on Thursday. Speaking to The Hindu , R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said that while the facility at Tiruchi has conducted screening tests, the samples have been sent to the Government Medical College, Villupuram, for confirmation. The results will arrive on Friday, the Medical Superintendent said. Meanwhile, two male patients, 58 and 60-years-old, who were in direct contacts of the patients who tested positive in Karur, have been kept at the isolation ward’s Intensive Care Unit, he said.  Pudukottai Two patients, one hailing from Alangudi and another from Bengaluru were admitted to the isolation ward at the Pudukkottai Government Medical College here on Thursday. The 47-year-old from Alangudi was admitted with fever symptoms while the 31-year from Bengaluru suffered from breathlessness as he had been diagnosed with asthma. Both their samples have been sent to the testing centre at the the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-results-of-120-patients-awaited/article31243308.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special drive to identify those suffering from fever||The Tiruchi Corporation on Wednesday launched a special drive to identify fever and cold affected persons. The health and anganwadi workers assigned for the drive will visit each and every house in the city to collect details on those affected with fever, cold and breathing problems. If they come across anyone, he or she will be asked to visit the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for medical check up, said Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian. He added that a total of 800 persons had been drafted for the drive. Each of the four zones had been allotted 200 enumerators. The Commissioner said that the drive would be completed within two days. So far no one from the city has tested positive for COVID 19 virus. If anyone tested positive, the street, where he or she lived, would be made a restricted area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-drive-to-identify-those-suffering-from-fever/article31243301.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IOB deploys mobile ATM to help customers||The Indian Overseas Bank has deployed a mobile Automated Teller Machine in view of the prohibitory order that has been enforced in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Customers would be allowed to enter the mobile ATM only after cleaning their hands with sanitisers. This will be provided at the unit. The key pads at the machine would be cleaned after every use. Personal distancing would be followed among customers waiting to use the facility, said K. Sathyanarayanan,Lead Bank Manager. The ATM would visit the following villages as per a notified schedule: April 3- Samayapuram,Kariyamanickam, Konalai and Siruganur.; April 4- Nochiyam, Manachanallur, Poonampalayam, Peramangalam, Pulivalam and Senthanapatti.; April 5 – Alampattipudur, Muthapudayanpatti, Manapparai, Usilampatti and S.Keezhaiyur.; April 6 – Thottiyam, Arasalur, Natham, Kattuputhur and Sriramasamudiram; April 7- Vaiyampatti, Maniyarampatti, Ilankakurichi and Puthanatham; and April 8 – Thuvarankurichi, Thalampadi, Yagapuram, Kallupatti, and Marungapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iob-deploys-mobile-atm-to-help-customers/article31243320.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Case against private unit for defying prohibitory orders||The Thuvakudi Police has registered a case against a private company making steel rods at Thuvakudi on the city’s outskirts for defying prohibitory orders issued in the wake of COVID-19 and running the unit engaging labourers from Bihar. The case was booked on Wednesday after the Thuvakudi Police came to know of the activity. The company, the police said, had engaged 16 Bihari labourers for work. Police sources said the case was booked against its owner Sukwinder Singh under various IPC sections including 269 ( Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188(Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-private-unit-for-defying-prohibitory-orders/article31243317.ece
03 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Spotlight on seating arrangement||Distribution of COVID-19 relief of Rs. 1,000 in cash and free rice, sugar, dhal and cooking oil to 6,77,982 ration cardholders in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts began on Thursday. While 3,73,849 cardholders would get relief and free essential commodities through 697 ration shops in Tirunelveli district, 507 PDS outlets would distribute assistance to 3,04,133 cardholders in Tenkasi by April 16. Cardholders, who were unable to buy essential commodities for March, could make their purchase along with the free hampers. Though there were initial hiccups in regulating the impatient cardholders in some ration shops, policemen deployed near the outlets ensured physical distancing. The beneficiaries waited inside circles drawn at an equal distance of one metre. Interestingly, a good number of shops had made seating arrangements. The cardholders patiently sat on chairs and waited for their turn to receive the relief. As reports of the arrangement spread on social media, the laudable system was followed in more shops in the district. Since Melapalayam had been declared as ‘containment zone’ after 16 residents of the area tested positive for COVID– 19, the cash and essential commodities would be distributed at the doorstep of the cardholders soon. In all ration shops, salesmen were provided with mask, gloves and hand sanitiser. The maximum number of cardholders per day to get the relief was capped at 100. In Thoothukudi district, distribution of cash and commodities to 4,80,602 cardholders began through 957 ration shops on Thursday. In Kanniyakumari district, 5,42,986 cardholders would receive relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spotlight-on-seating-arrangement/article31243268.ece
03 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection, door-to-door checks under way in cordoned areas of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi||Several localities, including Melapalayam, Kodeeswaran Nagar and Kalakkad in the district, have been cordoned off after 29 residents tested positive for COVID–19. Twenty-eight of them had attended a religious congregation in Delhi recently,    Disinfection operation started in the areas soon after the residents tested positive on Tuesday night. The exercise continued on Thursday. While conservancy workers from Tirunelveli Corporation are engaged in disinfecting Melapalayam, teams have been set up to visit every house in the cordoned localities to check if residents have any health issues, especially, cough, cold and fever. Led by an Additional Deputy Commissioner, a team comprising three Assistant Commissioners, five Inspectors of Police and around 100 policemen has been deployed in and around Melapalayam to ensure complete lockdown. Sixteen of the area residents, who tested positive for COVID–19, are undergoing treatment at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. “Since the residents did not take the lockdown seriously and moved around casually, heavy police deployment is now necessary to make them follow the prohibitory order,” said a senior police officer. Similar exercises are under way in Kodeeswaran Nagar and Kalakkad, where outsiders are not allowed to enter and the movement of residents totally curtailed. In Kalakkad. ‘Friends of Police’ volunteers have been fielded to assist police and health workers. Recreation club sealed In Thoothukudi district, disinfection of Kaayalpattinam and Petmanagar continued on Thursday. The Indian Officers’ Club on T.R. Naidu Street in Thoothukudi was sealed by revenue officials after members continued to gather on the premises even during the day defying the lockdown. The move came after residents of the street alerted Collector Sandeep Nanduri, who immediately rushed Thoothukudi tahsildar Selvakumar to the spot. As the revenue officials entered the club along with the police, the members left and it was sealed. The club manager, Elango, security guard Karuppasamy and staff, Ravichandran and Antony, were arrested. Two bikes and two bicycles parked on the premises were seized. Thoothukudi Central Police registered a case against the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-door-to-door-checks-under-way-in-cordoned-areas-of-tirunelveli-thoothukudi/article31243269.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Those who failed to draw March ration can get it now: Minister||Food Minister R. Kamaraj has announced that those who have failed to draw their ration for the month of March could draw the same along with the April month allocation. Disclosing this to reporters at Tiruvarur on Thursday after launching the COVID-19 relief assistance at a public distribution system outlet at Durgalaya Road, Tiruvarur, the Minister said those who were not able to draw the last month’s ration due to COVID-19 scare or any other reason could draw the same along with this month’s allotment. Apart from extending cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each, to 2,01,45,993 smart cardholders in the State, ration goods worth Rs. 17310.75 lakh would also be provided to the cardholders as COVID-19 relief assistance, Mr. Kamaraj said. For the 2,364 families in the State, who have been quarantined in view of a person or persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 virus, the cash and ration goods would be delivered at their doorsteps, the Minister added. Food Minister R. Kamaraj also appealed to the people to practice social distancing at the PDS outlets where circles or boxes have been marked with a one-metre distance between each marking.  For the 2,364 families, who have been quarantined cash and ration goods would be delivered at their doorsteps R. Kamaraj Food Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-who-failed-to-draw-march-ration-can-get-it-now-minister/article31243310.ece
03 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Contribute to PM CARES fund’||The faculty and staff members of the Central University of Tamil Nadu have been requested to contribute their one-day salary to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund). Making an appeal in this regard to the faculty and staff members through e-mail, Vice-Chancellor A. P. Dash has pointed out that it was the moral duty of the CUTN family to support the government in its crusade against the COVID-19. Professor Dash had also emphasised the need to follow the instructions of the Central and State governments during the 21-day lockdown period for the betterment of the nation and society. In a separate e-mail, Registrar S. Bhuvaneswari has requested the faculty and staff members to give their consent for donation. Dr. Bhuvaneswari said that one day’s salary would be deducted and remitted to the PM CARES Fund upon receiving the individual consent letters through e-mail, according to a University release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contribute-to-pm-cares-fund/article31243309.ece
03 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Containment zone leaves Coonoor residents in a quandary||The containment zone set up around parts of Coonoor town where a majority of traders and vendors selling vegetables and commodities at the Coonoor market live, has meant that very few shops selling essential commodities have been opened the last couple of days. Local residents said the containment zone meant that people had not been allowed to leave Raleigh compound, Rajaji Nagar or Mount Pleasant, while shops had also been asked to close to enable the municipality to carry out disinfection work. Though the residents said that they were yet to face any major inconvenience due to the closure, they urged the district administration to ensure that enough shops were opened in each locality. “Merchants were allowed to sell vegetables and other commodities outside the market area, but they too have been prevented from setting up stalls since Wednesday. Many people do not know where to go to buy produce. So it will be helpful if the district administration releases a list of shops in each ward which will be opened in the morning,” said B. Basuvaraj, a resident. Coonoor Sub-Collector Ranjith Singh said that vegetables and fruits were being sold in each locality in trucks and other vehicles. “We are also providing food and provisions for people in the containment zone. There is absolutely no need for people to panic,” said Mr. Singh. The municipality has also begun setting up shops in each ward in Coonoor to prevent overcrowding in any particular area. Officials said that people requiring any information or assistance can contact the district helpline number at 1077, or get in touch with their tahsildar or the Coonoor Municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zone-leaves-coonoor-residents-in-a-quandary/article31242977.ece
03 April 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Activists voice concern over leak of patients list on social media||The “leak” of a list of names on social media of 10 persons from the Nilgiris who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi has raised serious privacy concerns among activists here, with many calling for action against the people responsible for the leaks. The list, which began circulating on mobile messaging applications on Wednesday, not only has the names of 10 ten people who supposedly attended the event in Delhi last month, but also their phone numbers, addresses and the police stations nearest to their homes. The list also had unverified “test results” of four persons, declaring that four of the 10 people in the list had tested positive for COVID-19. Following the leak, the list quickly started making the rounds of various mobile messaging applications, with many residents mistaking the list to have been released by the State government. Test results yet to arrive However, on Thursday, the Nilgiris district administration categorically stated that the test results of the people who attended the event in Delhi, and who have been placed in isolation have yet to arrive. “We do not know who started circulating this list, but it is unverified and as yet, till Thursday afternoon, there are no known cases of SARS-CoV-2 infections in the Nilgiris,” said an official from the district administration. Activists here are more worried about the breach of privacy which led to the list being leaked in the first place. K. Vijayan, a Nilgiris-based lawyer and Director of the People’s Legal Forum, Tamil Nadu chapter, said that such leaks threatened communal harmony in the district. “It is completely irrelevant if anyone in the list has actually contracted the infection. What is concerning is that someone has taken the time to release the list of names of these individuals, which clearly indicates that there is malicious intent behind the leak,” said Mr. Vijayan, who called on the police to register a case against the persons responsible for sharing patients’ data while also calling for stricter protocols to maintain the privacy of individuals who are either in isolation or quarantine during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Nilgiris is a district renowned for its communal harmony, with people from different religions living side by side with each other for generations in peace and harmony. Immediate steps must be taken to identify the people or officials involved who revealed the names of patients to the public,” said Mr. Vijayan. When contacted, Nilgiris district superintendent of police, V. Sasi Mohan, said that the police were looking into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-voice-concern-over-leak-of-patients-list-on-social-media/article31242997.ece
03 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Free cargo movement||Cargo vehicles carrying essential and non-essential goods need not get vehicle pass, including empty vehicle pass, for operating within the State. Collector R. Kannan said that only vehicles going to other States need to get vehicle passes from the Regional Transport Office. Suitable instructions had been given to district police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-cargo-movement/article31243277.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation launches door-to-door sale of vegetables||Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday launched the door-to-door sale of the vegetables with Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani flagging off 25 vehicles at the Corporation main office in Town Hall. A release said the corporation would deploy five vehicles each a zone. The vehicles would have a farmer selling vegetables in packets worth Rs. 100 with each packet containing a kg tomato, onion half-a-kg, green chilli 150g, a coconut, brinjal 250g, ladies finger 250g, snake gourd 300g, ridged gourd half-a-kg, drumstick 250g and curry leaves. The release said the Corporation launching the door-to-door sale of vegetables was to prevent people from crowding markets and their venturing out. Sources in the Agriculture Marketing Department said on the first day of the initiative, the department had despatched around 1,300 packets. Depending on patronage, the department and corporation would take a call on increasing or decreasing the number of packets. Collector K. Rajamani, MLAs and senior corporation officials were present when Mr. Velumani flagged off the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-launches-door-to-door-sale-of-vegetables/article31242984.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of relief through PDS begins in southern districts||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Thursday distributed Rs. 1,000 cash relief to ration cardholders at a PDS shop in Theni district. Mr. Panneerselvam also gave them a bag containing rice, dhal and other essential commodities. Police officials at the venue said they strictly ensured personal distancing at the ration shops. Some outlets put up thatched roofs and provided chairs for beneficiaries. ‘Only cash relief’ Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said there were 4,01,029 eligible cardholders and 517 ration shops in the district. Distribution of cash and other commodities had begun as per the State government’s directive. However, distribution of essential commodities in four municipalities of Periyakulam, Bodi, Theni and Chinnamanur and Uthamapalayam Town Panchayat would begin only after four days as 20 people, who tested positive for COVID-19, resided in the areas. As a precautionary measure, officials distributed only cash on Thursday and the commodities would be door delivered soon, she added. To ensure that there was no crowding, PDS staff had issued 100 tokens to residents/cardholders and only they could collect the commodities. Officials appealed to them to cooperate in smooth distribution of relief material. A two-page pamphlet printed by the Directorate of Information and Public Relations about COVID-19 prevention measures were also given to the beneficiaries at the shops. Pat for Amma Unavagam Earlier, the Deputy Chief Minister dropped in at Amma Unavagam for breakfast. Accompanied by Theni MP and son O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, he hadidliandpongalwithsambarand, expressed satisfaction at the quality of food. Officials were surprised when the Deputy CM’s vehicle slowed down near the Amma Unavagam. When Mr. Panneerselvam stepped into the canteen and asked the staff to give him a plate, they were stunned. Mr. Raveendranath Kumar lauded the staff and suggested that wear face masks without fail. Before leaving the Amma Unavagam, Mr. Panneerselvam paid the bill and also commended the staff for their good work. He asked officials about the sales and the number of footfalls since March 24, when the 21-day curfew came into force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-relief-through-pds-begins-in-southern-districts/article31243273.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of relief materials begins at PDS outlets||The district saw beneficiaries lining up in batches throughout the day in front of PDS outlets across the district on Thursday to receive essential commodities and COVID-19 cash relief of Rs. 1000 announced by the Chief Minister. Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development SP Velumani inaugurated the distribution here. As many as 9,27,455 rice card holders will receive the cash and the materials eligible for their card and 42,000 sugar card holders will receive the materials at 1418 outlets in the district. Tokens have been distributed to all the beneficiaries and details of time and date when they can collect the cash and materials have also been specified in it. The distribution starts at 9 a.m. every day and goes on till 6 p.m. For every two hours 25 people can come to the shop the specified time. Boxes or circles have drawn on the ground to mark one metre distance and the beneficiaries wait in the marked area. For those who are under home quarantine, the materials will be supplied at their door step. At Annamalai, five outlets come under the quarantined area. Hence, beneficiaries of these outlets will also get the materials at their doorstep, said an official. Though there is two hours time for each batch, the distribution is getting over early. Hence the personnel at the outlets have been advised to call the next batch beneficiaries and distribute to them earlier than the given time. The aim is to ensure that all beneficiaries get the materials and there is no crowding at the shops, the official added. Along with the materials, pamphlets are distributed to the beneficiaries to create awareness about COVID-19 and the precautions to be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-relief-materials-begins-at-pds-outlets/article31242987.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Managing epilepsy during COVID-19||Epilepsy is the most common serious neurological disease affecting over 50 million people worldwide and an estimated 5 million plus people in India. People with epilepsy have recurrent, unprovoked seizures and these have to be differentiated from provoked seizures that follow a tumour, stroke, infection, inflammation, metabolic disease (like very low or very high blood sugar) and so on. A seizure is an electrical storm in the brain; a short circuit in the brain’s normal electrochemical activity. World Epilepsy Day or Purple Day just passed us on 26th March. In this time of COVID let’s ask ourselves what the implications are for people with epilepsy. Here are some common FAQs.  Can COVID-19 cause epilepsy?  According to the International League Against Epilepsy, there is no direct evidence that the coronavirus infection can directly cause epilepsy. However, like all infections that can cause high fever, breathing difficulties and other problems with normal functioning, being infected can result in a person who is susceptible to epilepsy, suffer breakthrough episodes.  Does epilepsy or its treatment make one more susceptible to COVID-19?  At present there is no information to suggest that either epilepsy or its treatment (anti-epileptic drugs, most commonly) will in any way make a person susceptible to COVID-19. Indeed, there is no suggestion that people with epilepsy have any special immune vulnerability either. However, the stress a pandemic of this nature can induce in people, the sleep deprivation and attendant lifestyle changes, can all make a person already vulnerable to seizures, express them more frequently.  What should I do if I have a seizure in this time of COVID-19?  If one has never had a seizure before in their lives, it is obviously imperative that they consult a neurologist, urgently and undergo relevant investigations as advised. As most routine clinics are cancelled, the emergency room of a hospital may be a better point of access at this time. However, for people with pre-existent epilepsy, a single seizure is no reason for panic. Call your usual doctor and discuss what you can do to manage your epilepsy better; follow your doctors advice. Avoid visiting clinics and hospitals for single breakthrough seizures unless you feel it is absolutely necessary. However, if seizures cluster together, or indeed a person suffers continuous seizures with no recovery of consciousness in-between, what is called “status epilepticus”, it must be treated as an emergency.  What precautions should a person with epilepsy take at this time?  People with epilepsy are advised to stock up adequately on their anti-epileptic drugs, as even missing a single dose can cause a breakthrough seizure for some. Compliance with drug treatment is extremely important for people with epilepsy. Stress is inevitable and managing it with meditation, yoga, a healthy diet and lifestyle are all possible. Many good online tutorials exist on all the above. If one is very stressed out an online consultation with a psychiatrist or psychologist can be helpful. Sleep deprivation is another risk factor for people with epilepsy; adequate rest and sleep are therefore very important. Sleep can be disturbed due to stress or indeed due to excessive exposure to digital media — televisions, computers, tablets and smartphones. Good sleep hygiene: making oneself clean and comfortable before going to bed, making the temperature and lighting in the room ambient and suitable to the extent possible, putting way all digital media and retiring to bed with either a book or gentle instrumental music (if one must have a distraction) are all encouraged.  Are there special precautions?  Unless one is a healthcare worker or otherwise at high risk of exposure, no special precautions are recommended. If a person with epilepsy belongs to this category, they are encouraged to speak with their usual doctor about drug prophylaxis and other precautions. For all other people with epilepsy, the principles of social distancing, avoiding unnecessary contact with people outside one’s immediate family, or indeed taking due care around anyone who is symptomatic of COVID, is adequate.  Where can I learn more?  The International League Against Epilepsy (the world’s premier professional body)www.ilae.organd the Epilepsy Foundationwww.epilepsy.comhave considerable information about COVID and epilepsy. For information about living with epilepsy visit our Epicare pages onwww.neurokrish.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/managing-epilepsy-during-covid-19/article31242941.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mobile vegetable sales inaugurated in Tiruppur||To reduce overcrowding in Tiruppur markets, the district administration introduced mobile vegetable sales as part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19 on Thursday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inaugurated 10 vehicles from Tiruppur Old Bus Terminus premises. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that the vegetables will be available in three different types of packages, which will be priced at Rs. 30, Rs. 50 and Rs. 100. The vegetables will be distributed within the limits of Tiruppur Corporation. “We also have plans for delivering vegetables online,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Regarding overcrowding in meat and fish markets, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar has been regularly conducting meetings with owners of shops regarding this. “Strict action will be taken against those shops that do not maintain physical distancing,” he said. All meat and fish shops will start selling “pre-cut, pre-packed meat” from Sunday and a dry run for this initiative will begin from Friday, he said. A total of 47 people, who have returned from Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi have been house quarantined across Tiruppur district, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-vegetable-sales-inaugurated-in-tiruppur/article31242988.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CRPF men punish those found roaming on the street||A video of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel forcing five men to air squat as punishment for allegedly roaming in a street near Ukkadam here surfaced on Thursday. The police said that the incident, which happened on Thursday, had come to their attention and they issued warning to CRPF men not indulge in such activities. CRPF personnel gave the punishment to the men, allegedly after finding them roaming. According to the police, the incident took place at Al Ameen Colony. CRPF men, who were posted at an outpost in the locality gave punishment to the men which they were not supposed to do, said the police. “We had received similar complaints before. We have warned the personnel not to engage in law and order maintenance,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crpf-men-punish-those-found-roaming-on-the-street/article31242995.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No overcrowding in Tiruppur||No overcrowding was reported in fair price shops in Tiruppur district on the first day of distribution of State government’s special assistance of Rs. 1,000 and essential commodities for COVID-19 relief measures, according to Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department officials. District Supply Officer M. Murugan said that he along with his team inspected the fair price outlets in Tiruppur North and South taluks and found that personal distancing norms were maintained. In a bid to curb overcrowding, all outlets were instructed to provide the commodities to a maximum of 12 persons per hour trying to target about 80 to 90 cardholders in a day. “During Pongal, there will be at least 300 people per day (at a fair price outlet),” he said, referring to the distribution of Pongal gift packages. A total of 7,25,973 ration cardholders will be the beneficiaries ofi the scheme n the district. While tokens have been issued to nearly all the cardholders within city limits, about 20% in district limits are yet to receive their tokens, according to Mr. Murugan. Migrant workers residing in the district may visit their respective Tahsildars and present their Aadhaar cards to receive commodities such as rice and groceries from the district administration, Mr. Murugan said, noting that the special assistance covers only cardholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-overcrowding-in-tiruppur/article31242989.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It’s just another day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-just-another-day/article31243287.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore update||COIMBATORE   As on April 2  No. of persons in hospitals: 100 Govt. Medical College & ESI Hospital: 70 (Positive - 13, negative-17, results awaited-40) Mettupalayam GH - 21 (all tested positive on Wednesday) Annur GH-9  TIRUPPUR  House quarantine cases: 1,213 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 133 Samples lifted: 10 Results declared: 6 Negative: 5 Positive: 1 (Admitted to ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Results awaited: 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-update/article31242993.ece
03 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ambulance service for non-COVID-19 patients||KLE Society will extend its ambulance service to non-COVID-19 patients during the lockdown. Emergency cases and expectant mothers can utilise the service free by contacting the Prabhakar Kore Hospital office on Ph: 0831-2551144. Medicines will be supplied free at the doorsteps of patients if they contact the Wellness Pharmacy in the hospital by dialling Ph: 7996705501, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambulance-service-for-non-covid-19-patients/article31243085.ece
03 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Free hand sanitisers||Ugar Sugars, a private sugar factory in Belagavi district, has decided to provide hand sanitisers free to the police, health, municipality and other department officials working during the lockdown, factory managing director Chandan Shirgaonkar, said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-hand-sanitisers/article31243086.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many quarantined at Haj Bhavan had nothing to do with Tablighi meet||The Haj Bhavan on Thanisandra Main Road in Bengaluru has now been converted into a quarantine centre for about 100 people who are said to be facing the threat of COVID-19 infection, based on the Centre’s list of nearly 1,500 people who may have participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West, New Delhi. However, while some among them, including 15 from Indonesia and Kyrgyzstan, are those who had attended the congregation, a good number in the lot say they neither belong to the Tablighi Jamaat nor attended the meet. As the list was prepared based on mobile numbers traced in the vicinity of Nizamuddin West during the period of the congregation, many who did not attend the meet have also been quarantined, including a man from the Jain community. Those who have been “picked up” include persons who boarded a train from Bengaluru and alighted at the Nizamuddin Railway Station, who are residents of Bengaluru but working in Delhi and residing near Nizamuddin, and those who had travelled to Ajmer and visited the Nizamuddin dargah but not the congregation. A Railway Travelling Ticket Examiner of Nizamuddin Express is also among those quarantined here. “I do not belong to the Tablighi Jamaat. I went to the Nizamuddin dargah to offer prayers as I do regularly when I go there to purchase ready-made garments from Chandini Chowk,” said Banaswadi resident Munnawar Basha. Those who belong to Tablighi Jamaat do not believe in visiting shrines and dargahs, he added. “I returned on March 24 and do not have any symptoms so far. I am worried that some of us who are healthy may catch the infection here,” he said. Sources said at least three of the foreigners have developed symptoms. Swabs of 30 people have been collected for tests from the Haj Bhavan, sources said. Natiq Sultan Sharief, a resident of Sultanpalya, said he had gone to Ajmer dargah. “On my return trip, I came to Delhi and went around sightseeing. Then I boarded a train to Bengaluru from Nizamuddin. I do not know why I have been brought here,” he said. Another person, a staffer of Parliament who resides in the vicinity of the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz and had come to Bengaluru to meet his family, has also been quarantined at the Haj Bhavan. “They called me and told me to be ready in 15 minutes. Some of us have not even been able to get our regular medicine,” said the person who refused to be named. District Health Officer G. Srinivas admitted that most of those brought to the Haj Bhavan had not attended the congregation.  I do not belong to the Tablighi Jamaat. I went to the Nizamuddin dargah to offer prayers as I do regularly when I go there to purchase garments from Chandini Chowk. Munnawar Basha,a Banaswadi resident who has been quarantined||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-quarantined-at-haj-bhavan-had-nothing-to-do-with-tablighi-meet/article31242882.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Animals stranded inside pet shops||The lockdown period is turning out to be extremely testing for shelterless animals and those who are in pet shops. While the shelterless are unable to get enough food and water, those in pet shops are finding themselves in a similar situation now. Following the lockdown, many pet shops owners have abandoned the incarcerated animals across the city. Random inspection by Karnataka Animal Welfare Board (KAWB), activists and a few NGOs confirmed the situation. In one such inspection conducted by KAWB in Halsuru on Wednesday, officials found that two rabbits and a few birds had died. Shivananad M. Dambal of KAWB said that they had conducted over 40 such inspection across the city and most of the shops were unauthorized and most of them had abandoned the pets. “As a temporary measure, I have asked the owners to open the shops and feed them twice a day. In many cases, we have rescued and rehabilitated the pets. Strict action will be taken against them under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” he said. According to a BBMP official, there are over 140 commercial establishments that ran pet shop in city, most of them without licence and proper approval by the Karnataka Animal Welfare Board. However, Mr. Dambal says there are many more which the authorities do not know about. "We will find them all and take action against them. We also need support from the public,” he said. Various NGOs and individuals have complained to the Karnataka Animal Welfare Board, civic body and the police that the owners of many pet shops were not providing food and water to the animals and birds. They have also appealed to the police and the civic body to provide pet feeders and animal rescuers with curfew passes. “If the authorities concerned do not act swiftly, those caged will soon starve to death and will probably be unnoticed. That could lead to bigger problems,” Arun Prasad, an animal rights activists, said. He also said that many shop owners wanted to take care of them, but were not able to due to the lockdown. Sandhya Madappa, honorary secretary, Compassion Unlimited plus Action (CUPA), said that the lockdown had hit the supply chain of animal feeds, leading to a steep increase in prices and also irregular supply. “We have five animal shelters across the city and supply to them is severely affected,” she said, adding that stray dogs and cattle are the worse affected. Ms. Madappa also said that the volunteers and some others were risking their lives and working towards feeding stray animals and birds. “Some are going beyond their call of duty and supporting and cooperating in such efforts. It’s the responsibility of the government to ensure that their work is hassle free,” she added. Shashi Kumar, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, said that the civic body would provide three vehicles to feed stray animals across the city. “NGOs, individuals can approach the BBMP and we will ensure that such people and organisations are provided with passes and permission,” he said.  As a temporary measure, I have asked the owners to open the shops and feed them twice a day Shivananad M. Dambal, Karnataka Animal Welfare Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/animals-stranded-inside-pet-shops/article31242862.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel’s norms to decongest jails during COVID-19||A high-powered committee, headed by the Executive Chairperson of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), has recommended release of undertrial prisoners facing charges of minor offences for two months on temporary bail for decongesting prisons in view of COVID-19 outbreak. The meeting was chaired by Justice Aravind Kumar of the High Court of Karnataka, who is also the Executive Chairperson of the KSLSA, on March 30 for taking steps as per the guidelines issued by the apex court to decongest crowded prisons in view of COVID-19. The committee recommended that temporary/interim bail can be given for two months or till such time the State government withdraws the notification issued under the Epidemic Diseases Act, whichever is earlier. Eligibility Undertrial prisonerswho have as been granted bail but not released as he/she is unable to furnish surety and those facing trial with an imprisonment up to seven years or less are among those to be considered for release. Those jailed for failure to pay maintenance amount as per orders of the court in matrimonial cases, and persons undergoing civil imprisonments in connection with disobeying the orders of civil courts will also be considered for release, the committee has said. Those released on temporary bail must report to the jurisdictional police station once in 30 days and the jurisdictional court can impose additional conductions. The District Legal Services Authorities (DLSAs) will identify the prisoners eligible for release. However, relief of temporary bail will not be available for those facing charges for which prescribed punishment is more than seven years, and those charged under the laws related to terrorism, money laundering, offences against women and children, financial frauds, etc.  ‘ Frustrated prisoners’  The committee has recommended allowing prisoners to use landline telephone to speak to their family members to overcome frustration among prisoners on account of closure of visits to jail by family members owing to COVID-19 restrictions. As DGP (Prisons and Correctional Services) pointed out to the committee that there is a threat of riot among prisoners owing to stopping family visits, non-hearing of regular bail application because of closure of courts, and low physical activities owing to social distancing within prison, the committee asked member-secretaries of the DLSAs to visit prisons to assuage the pent-up frustration of prisoners. The State government has told the apex court that it has allowed the prison authorities to use video calling or telephone call facilities to enable the prisoners to interact with their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panels-norms-to-decongest-jails-during-covid-19/article31242879.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No disruption in supply of milk products||At a time when people are stocking up on every available food item and supermarket shelves are emptied out by afternoon, milk supply remains a constant. One of the main reasons for this is work done by the Bangalore Urban, Rural & Ramanagara District Co-operatives Milk Producers Societies Union (BAMUL), under KMF. However, vendors and agents in non-residential areas have been hit by a drop in demand from commercial players including hotels, restaurants, bakeries and caterers. “In my case, at least 30% of my sales were to hotels, bakeries, tea shops and caterers,” said Ashok K., a milk vendor near T.C. Palya on Old Madras Road. A milk vendor in Mahadevapura area said he had lost a chunk of his business because of the shutdown of hotels and restaurants. “Apart from that, I do door delivery to apartments etc. Transportation at this stage is not uninterrupted like before. People are worried and cynical, police are sceptical and we suffer,” he said, adding that many people wanted to stop milk buying packets fearing the spread of COVID-19. On the positive side, demand in residential areas remains robust. R. Chandrashekar Gowda, a milk retailer in Sadashivnagar, said milk vendors and retailers have not been affected due to the lockdown. “Sale of milk and curd has not dropped. In fact, the demand for items like cheese and paneer has increased a bit as everyone is at home,” he said. “We have taken all precautions by providing drivers and supply chain staff with necessary items including gloves and masks. We have ensured there proper hygiene throughout the supply chain,” Narasimha Murthy, President, BAMUL, said. Nagesh.M., a milk retailer in Teachers Colony, Koramangala, said they had got instructions from BAMUL to follow social distancing and to wear masks and gloves. “People are cooperative. Since most of our business is early in the morning, it is not a problem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-disruption-in-supply-of-milk-products/article31242868.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deve Gowda and Siddaramaiah oppose closing of borders||Some Opposition leaders in Karnataka have condemned the decision of the BJP government in Karnataka in denying access to people from Kerala who arrive in Mangaluru for medical aid. Janata Dal (Secular) national president H.D. Deve Gowda has said that he was pained and anguished after the “inhuman and inappropriate” action of the Karnataka government in denying access to those seeking aid during medical emergencies by blocking the interstate highway between Mangaluru and Kasaragod. In a letter to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday, he has said: “The situation is grim since I learnt that four or five patients died for want of medical facilities since the ambulances ferrying the patients were denied permission to cross the border.” Incidentally, JD(S) is part of the coalition government in Kerala with the party’s MLA K. Krishnan Kutty part of Mr. Vijayan’s government. Further, Mr. Gowda said that though he wrote to Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, it appears that the Karnataka government is adamant despite the assurances given before the High Court. He also said that he would take up the matter with the Prime Minister. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah tweeted stating that critical and essential travel from Kasaragod to Mangaluru should be allowed on humanitarian grounds. “Patients from Kerala seeking medical assistance in Karnataka can be allowed with adequate precautionary measures. Our fight against the virus is beyond caste, religion, and boundary,” he said.  Patients can be allowed with precautionary measures. Our fight against COVID-19 is beyond caste, religion, and boundary. Siddaramaiah former Chief Minister   I learnt that four or five patients died for want of medical facilities since the ambulances ferrying the patients were denied permission to cross the border. H.D. Kumaraswamy, former Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deve-gowda-and-siddaramaiah-oppose-closing-of-borders/article31242890.ece
03 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State to form task force to chalk out post-lockdown measures||Karnataka will form a task force to decide on precautionary measures to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 after the 21-day lockdown period ends, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Speaking to reporters after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s videoconference with Chief Ministers of all States to take stock of situation, Mr. Yediyurappa said the task force would be formed after April 14, when the lockdown is supposed to end. This is being done on the advise of the Prime Minister. Sources in the government said that the task force would suggest measures and restrictions to handle COVID-19. “The focus on the pandemic will continue for several more months even after the lockdown is lifted,” sources noted.  Sources also said that the government was expected to form one more task force for initiating measures to put the economy back on track. The economy, which was hit by global slowdown, has taken a further beating ever since restrictions have been imposed. The State’s own tax revenues are expected to decline as registration of properties, motor vehicles and liquor sales have been stopped. As all sectors have been hit hard, there is the need for a task force comprising experts to suggest the first 100 measures to be initiated by the government to revive the economy, sources noted. Meanwhile, during the videoconference, Mr. Modi advised the Chief Ministers to implement the lockdown effectively without affecting essential services. He directed them to deal with curfew violations stringently. He sought to remind them that losses could be minimised only if everyone tackles the pandemic effectively and unanimously. Mr. Modi also advised them to isolate migrant workers and provide basic amenities to them.  AYUSH doctors too The Prime Minister instructed States to maintain sufficient stock of medicines and essential food items. “In the coming days, we should not face shortage of doctors and therefore AYUSH doctors should be roped in and trained online,” Mr. Modi said, according to a communiqué from the Chief Minister’s Office. He advised States to popularise AYUSH system to better immunity. Expressing concern over crowding at banks, he said social distancing must be maintained while people withdraw money transferred under PM-Garib Kalyan package. He stressed the need for farmers to find ways to practice social distancing during harvesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-form-task-force-to-chalk-out-post-lockdown-measures/article31242896.ece
03 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMF outlets to sell fruits from today||Starting Friday, Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) outlets in different parts of Bengaluru will start selling fruits along with HOPCOMS outlets to help farmers as well as consumers. This is as part of measures taken by the government to bail out farmers who are finding it difficult to find buyers. Co-operation Minister S.T. Somashekhar, who held a meeting with officials and farmers in Bengaluru on Thursday along with Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda, and Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, told The Hindu that HOPCOMS would start procuring all varieties of fruits from farmers from Friday. Measures will be taken to ensure smooth transportation of produce by farmers to HOPCOMS, which will in turn not only sell in its outlets in Bengaluru, but also allow KMF to sell at its outlets and milk booths, Mr. Somashekhar explained. This measure comes in the wake of farmers dumping their produce as they are unable to find buyers, he noted. HOPCOMS has also been directed to facilitate bulk delivery of fruits to apartment complexes if there is demand, he said. He said efforts were also being made to convince the owners of wineries, which have shut their operations, to re-open so that grape growers can find bulk buyers. Mr. Somashekhar said he had spoken to the authorities concerned to re-open the cocoon markets as early as possible to bail out sericulture farmers, who were in dire straits. However, strict measures would be taken to enforce social distancing at these markets, he noted. Farmers were at the mercy of middlemen and traders who were misusing the opportunity to buy cocoons at Rs. 100 to Rs. 120 per kg against the normal price of Rs. 450 ever since the markets have been closed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmf-outlets-to-sell-fruits-from-today/article31242894.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-offices keep things going as usual in some govt. departments||The paperless office concept has come in handy for several government departments in the time of COVID-19, when offices are without their full staff strength. The e-office platform, which currently has 330 offices on board, has ensured that work goes on with little interruption. These 330 offices includes offices of the Deputy Commissioners, Superintendent of Police, heads of departments, chief executive officers of zilla panchayats, and offices in the Secretariat. In all, across departments, e-office covers about 13,000 State government employees, providing virtual office access. Over the last fortnight, the average movement of files per person per day has ranged from about 2.92% in the Minorities Welfare Department to 71.82% in the Finance Department. “In non-essential departments, the average file movement is lower at present, as the work is concentrated on COVID-19. In the Finance Department, the average file movement is higher because it is a crucial department in the current crisis,” a government source said. In e-offices, files move faster and do not require Group ‘D’ employees to personally carry them. Even in departments offering essential services, e-office has worked well, for many persons above 50 years and those with medical problems have been exempted from working. The work from home concept has worked for these officials too, sources said. “Since it is a web-based application, it can be accessed by officials from anywhere,” acknowledged H.L. Prabhakar, project director at Centre for e-Governance. In contrast, Group ‘A’ officials in offices not covered under the e-office concept are finding the going tough. For, barring officials and employees of 11 departments that are rendering essential services in the fight against COVID-19, the government has declared holiday for Group ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ employees in all other departments till the midnight of April 14. In all, there are 64 government departments in the State. Some offices not open “Many offices have not opened in the M.S. Building in the absence of Group ‘D’ employees. Some Group ‘A’ officials did not get drivers to reach the office. Without a Group ‘D’ worker, the files do not move,” a senior official in the government said. “Also, with the government’s efforts now concentrated on COVID-19, there is little work.” A commercial tax official said that many officials are struggling to cope up with the current system where they have to work without clerical staff. Only a few officers are attending office, but in many departments there is nothing much to do.  Contract employees Meanwhile, the Karnataka State war room for COVID-19 has asked departments to send a list of employees hired on contract in the 11 departments notified for rendering essential services so that passes can be issued to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-offices-keep-things-going-as-usual-in-some-govt-departments/article31242905.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 14,000 guest lecturers in degree colleges not paid for months||Over 14,000 guest faculty members from 413 first grade degree colleges who have not received their salaries from the State government for months on end, some as long as over four months, have written a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to rectify the situation. With the price of essentials and kitchen staples rising, the money would help them tide over the crisis until the lockdown is lifted, they said. Many of these lecturers have other jobs, which they haven’t been able to report to. Last month the Department of Collegiate Education gave one month’s salary, but the remaining is pending, say lecturers. A lecturer who teaches in a college in Bengaluru said “This is a tough time for us and we hope the government responds.” Officials of the Department of Collegiate Education said that they were awaiting funds from the Finance Department. The department had pulled up the DCE for hiring more guest faculty members than required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-14000-guest-lecturers-in-degree-colleges-not-paid-for-months/article31242873.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Waive duty on life-saving equipment: CII||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has called on the government to waive Customs duty on ventilators and other life-saving equipment in the State in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a study, ‘Impact on Industry and Internal Trade & Interventions Urgently Required for the Government’, the CII said that in addition to the waiver of duty, the government could help support smaller healthcare providers through working capital support, staggered payment of utility bills, deferment of municipal taxes etc to tide over the difficult period. The CII has also called on the larger corporates to consider supporting the government in procuring essential requirements like ventilators, masks, sanitisers, PPE gowns, thermal scanners etc. “The government could make it available for the public through suitable distribution channels as currently there is a high demand for the above-mentioned items across the country,” the paper said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waive-duty-on-life-saving-equipment-cii/article31242871.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASHA workers face ire of residents||Doctors, nurses, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and other frontline workers are increasingly facing the ire of residents. A team of ASHA health workers and primary healthcare nurses were allegedly manhandled by residents of Saraipalya at Sadiq Nagar in Hennur when they went to conduct a COVID-19 survey. Amidst fears that someone in the area had contracted the novel coronavirus, residents allegedly argued with them, and snatched their kits and survey papers. Hundreds of residents gathered and asked the team to leave. Some residents later said they thought the team had come in connection with the National Population Register (NPR) work, which was slated to begin on April 1 but has been postponed as the country gears up to fight the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hours after Deputy CM C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Revenue Minister R. Ashok visited one of the Asha workers, the Hennur police registered a case against unknown persons who have been charged with unlawful assembly, assault on a public servant while discharging duty and criminal intimidation, and other sections of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asha-workers-face-ire-of-residents/article31242859.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It was a scramble to arrange for food, other amenities||Authorities at the Haj Bhavan in Bengaluru were caught unawares on Wednesday evening when the State government converted the building into a quarantine centre without any preparations.  Protocol not followed People were shifted without making any “quarantine protocol” preparations and the authorities had to scramble to arrange for food and other amenities. There was no provision for drinking water, soap, sanitiser, and so on. Gangaram Baderia, State nodal officer for quarantine facilities, said the Minority Welfare Secretary A.B. Ibrahim has been given the responsibility of Haj Bhavan. Mr. Ibrahim said, “The State government will make all arrangements and we are in the process of setting them in place.” Syed Aijaz Ahmed, Karnataka State Haj Committee nodal officer who is in charge of the Haj Bhavan, said, “As per the government’s direction, we have the responsibility of providing accommodation. We have also arranged food through local NGOs.” He said health and administrative protocols are not under his purview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-was-a-scramble-to-arrange-for-food-other-amenities/article31242889.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Letter to Chief Minister||Members of Arogya Rakshana, a group of health professionals and patient right activists, have written to the Chief Minister and top State Health officials on the woefully inadequate quarantine infrastructure at the Haj Bhavan. Sylvia Karpagam, a public health researcher who is part of the group, said housekeeping staff and volunteers at the bhavan have not even been given personal protection equipment and proper safety gear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/letter-to-chief-minister/article31242888.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ICMR approval for cytokine therapy sought||The State Health Department has written to Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan requesting her to issue necessary instructions to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to review the proposal of “Cytokine mediated anti-Covid therapy” developed by city-based immunologists U.S. Vishal Rao and Jyothsna Rao. In a letter to Ms. Sudan, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said Dr. Vishal Rao and his team have submitted a proposal to ICMR that holds the promise to mitigate the current crisis through the approach of the therapy. Dr Vishal Rao is a member of the State government’s high-powered committee on tobacco control. Dr. Vishal Rao told The Hindu that the project work was started in the immunology lab at HCG hospital to create a treatment for COVID, assisted by Lancet Resource centre and scientists from the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/icmr-approval-for-cytokine-therapy-sought/article31242897.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t feed wildlife’||As photos and videos of wild animals being spotted in the city have started making the rounds on social media, animal rights activists and wildlife rescuers have urged citizens not to feed them. “Movement of a few wild birds and animals is common in the city. But now, streets are empty and animals and birds are roaming freely. It has come to our notice that people are chasing wildlife that are spotted in the city to shoot videos of them. We urge them not to do that,” said Prasanna Kumar A., a wildlife rescuer. Another wildlife rescuer said these animals have their own food habits and people should not feed them. “They should only provide water as it is summer,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-feed-wildlife/article31242863.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 held||Three youth, who allegedly assaulted and abused police personnel enforcing the lockdown, were arrested on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-held/article31242869.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Fort High School Ramanavami concert makes online debut||Technology has come to the aid of Ramaseva Mandali at Chamarajpet in Bengaluru to keep its 82-year-old tradition of holding Ramanavami concerts going even in times of COVID-19 lockdown. On Thursday, it posted its inaugural concert online for one-and-a-half hours. Violinists father-and-son-duo Mysore Manjunath and Sumanth Manjunath, with mridanga by T.B. Ravishankar performed the inaugural concert from Mr. Manjunath’s home in Mysuru for viewers worldwide. S.N. Varadaraj, general secretary of the mandali, said: “This is our way of keeping Ramanavami music alive.” Mr. Varadaraj says this would be the only concert going live online as of now. “We are yet to get clarity on the other concerts at the Fort High School grounds after the lockdown. It would depend on several other factors including government rules and stipulations. We will take a call after the third week of April.” Speaking on the phone from Mysuru, Mr. Manjunath, who had to cancel a concert in Germany, said he was happy to be performing for Ramaseva Mandali’s first online Ramanavami show. “If 2020 is remembered for COVID-19, my son Sumanth and I will share memories of providing the first online mandali concert for viewers worldwide on April 2.” At Mysuru, Bidaram Krishnappa’s Prasanna Sitarama Mandira, which has a history of conducting music concerts for 103 years, saw no concert on Thursday because of the lockdown. K.S.N. Prasad, secretary, Sri Rama Seva Mandali Charitable Trust, said their trust too has cancelled all concerts though the daily morning rituals associated with Sri Ramanavami are being conducted. To keep the tradition alive, he rendered a bhajan after the rituals. Ramanavami celebrations across the State was muted without the usual practice of distributing panaka and kosambari at temples and street corners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fort-high-school-ramanavami-concert-makes-online-debut/article31242892.ece
03 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Action against 3 high school teachers||The Deputy Director of Public Instructions of Chikkamagaluru has recommended suspension of three high school teachers for forwarding an audio clip criticising Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for appeal for funds to combat COVID-19. Dharanendra Murthy of Gurukrupa High School at Giriyapura in Kadur taluk, M. Ranganna of Amrutheshwara High School of Tarikere, and C.H. Kumar of Channakeshwara High School at Basur in Kadur taluk, circulated the audio clip. In a press release, C. Nanjaiah, Deputy Director of Public Instructions, said the State government had declared a holiday for schools because of the lockdown over COVID-19 and teachers were asked to work from home and engage in educational activities. However, the three teachers shared the audio clip on WhatsApp. Their act was a violation of rules under the Education Act. The respective aided institutions had been directed to suspend the teachers immediately, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-against-3-high-school-teachers/article31242902.ece
03 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||17 who returned from jamaat test negative||As many as 17 people from Hubballi and Navalgund taluks who were traced after they returned from the religious congregation at Nizamuddin West, New Delhi, and hospital quarantined, have tested negative for COVID-19. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa said on Thursday that all the 17 were subjected to thermal screening at the fever clinic in KIMS, Hubballi, and were hospital isolated. The blood and throat swab samples collected from these people were sent for laboratory testing to RLD Laboratory in Shivamogga. The reports confirmed that all the 17 persons tested negative for COVID-19. Ms. Deepa has further said that 17 others who have claimed that they had been to Nizamuddin have approached the fever clinic at KIMS and have been quarantined. So far, 67 samples have been tested, of which 65 are negative, one positive (Hosayellapur), and one result is awaited, she said. Arrested Meanwhile, the Dharwad Town Police arrested five persons from Bara Imam Galli near Hebballi Agasi here on Thursday on the charge of hosting a dinner for 30 persons defying prohibitory orders. The police gave the names of the arrested as Irfan, Ashfaq, Wasim, Arbaz and Aslam. A video went viral on social media prompting the police to take action against the five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-who-returned-from-jamaat-test-negative/article31243089.ece
03 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Mahaveer Jayanti events cancelled||The Jain Mutt at Shravanabelgola in Channarayapatna taluk has cancelled Mahaveera Jayanti programme and annual rathotsava scheduled for April 6 and 8, respectively, in view of the nation-wide lockdown. In a press release here on Thursday, Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swamy said that the programmes had been cancelled extended support to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahaveer-jayanti-events-cancelled/article31243099.ece
03 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad COVID-19 patient shows health improvement||There has been improvement in the health of the lone person who tested positive for COVID-19 in Dharwad district and the recent test result has turned out to be negative, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district-in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said. He was speaking to presspersons at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Thursday after visiting various localities in Hubballi, including Nagashettikoppa, Udaynagar, Ramnagar and Old Hubballi, and hearing the grievances of the general public and police personnel on duty. Mr. Shettar said that after a few days of treatment administered to the COVID-19 positive person, the test results of his throat swabs had tested negative. However, the doctors were waiting for the results of another test and all necessary precautions had been taken while keeping the patient under observation. Making an appeal to the public not to panic, he said that all those from the district who had taken part in the the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi recently had been quarantined and their throat swabs had been sent for testing. Earlier, while interacting with residents of various localities maintaining social distance, the Minister appealed to them to adhere to the lockdown restrictions. He told them that ration for two months was being provided through the public distribution system and shortly, various pensions would be credited to the accounts of the beneficiaries. At the Kittur Chennamma Circle, the Minister sought details from the police personnel on whether they had been provided with proper protective gear and whether food was being supplied to them at the right time. The Minister was accompanied by his brother and MLC Pradeep Shettar, Chairman of HDUDA Nagesh Kalaburgi and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-covid-19-patient-shows-health-improvement/article31243091.ece
03 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports 11 positive cases; Kalaburagi and Ballari one new each||Bidar Deputy Commissioner H.R. Mahadev said that out of the 27 samples sent from the district, 11 persons have been found positive for COVID-19. Among the 11, one each was from Mannakeli and Basavakalyan and the others from Bidar city. According to sources, the administration has initiated containment process and contact tracing. Meanwhile, Kalaburagi and Ballari recorded a new case of COVID-19 each on Thursday. With these new cases, Kalaburagi’s tally went up to five and Ballari’s to four. According to the information provided by Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, one of the family members of a person who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Sharat clarified that the person who participated in the religious conference tested negative for the disease. Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul confirmed the fourth case in his district. He said that a 14-year-old boy who had recently returned from Nanjangud tested positive and the patient is being treated at the Ballari district hospital. The patient is a native of Sirguppa.  ‘One of the family members of a person who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 but the person who participated in the religious conference tested negative’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-reports-11-positive-cases-kalaburagi-and-ballari-one-new-each/article31243088.ece
03 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Koppal seeks help for its migrant workers||In an effort to help migrant workers from Koppal district stranded in various cities and towns in neighbouring Maharashtra, Koppal Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar has written to his counterparts in Sindhudurg, Solapur and Mumbai requesting such workers to provide all essential services and commodities. He has provided a list of migrant workers along with their contact numbers to the District Collectors there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/koppal-seeks-help-for-its-migrant-workers/article31243087.ece
03 April 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||18,000 families to get free milk||Within 24 hours of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s announcing free milk to the poor, the Mandya district administration has identified 18,000 families for the benefits and has decided to implement it from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18000-families-to-get-free-milk/article31242901.ece
03 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka to urge Centre not to take hasty decision on Kerala HC order||The Karnataka government will urge the Centre not to take any hasty decision on Wednesday’s Kerala High Court order directing it to lift blockades erected by the Karnataka government on National Highways at State borders for medical emergency cases. Y. Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru North MLA, who is coordinating COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada, told The Hindu that the State would ask the Centre to hear it before acting.The State government, Dr. Shetty said, issued an order on March 31 restricting entry of medical emergency cases from outside States into Karnataka under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The government was well within its powers to impose blockade, he said. In a late evening order on Wednesday, a division bench of High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam had directed the Centre to intervene in the matter of blockade forthwith on a petition filed by the Kerala High Court Advocates’ Association. The court said though it cannot issue any directions to the Karnataka government, it can direct the Centre as NHs come under the Central government. Stating that the restrictions were purely temporary measure, Dr Shetty stressed Karnataka had no animosity towards people from Kerala. The infrastructure was insufficient to handle COVID-19 cases that might arrive from Kerala if borders were opened for medical emergencies. Dr. Shetty noted neighbouring Kasaragod district in Kerala alone had reported over 110 COVID-19 positive cases as against similar number of cases for entire Karnataka. “It would be difficult to screen every occupant of an emergency vehicle,” he said. The District Health Officer issued an order directing eight private teaching hospitals in the district to not admit patients from Kerala as a precautionary measure in the light of increasing cases in Kasaragod district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-to-urge-centre-not-to-take-hasty-decision-on-kerala-hc-order/article31242900.ece
03 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Meals being served to stranded workers and destitute, say MLAs||Steps have been taken to supply food to workers, destitute and others who have been stranded due to the 21-day lockdown in Mangaluru City South and Mangaluru City North, respective MLAs D. Vedavyas Kamath and Y. Bharat Shetty said here on Thursday. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Kamath said that among the affected in Mangaluru City South included 993 construction workers from other districts and States and 815 skilled workers. They were being provided with a kit having seven grocery items and 5 kg rice. Kadri Manjunatha temple is supplying meals twice a day to 2,475 persons, including beggars and destitute, in the South constituency. In addition, meals is being served to 413 persons who have been stranded in lodges and other places through Indira Canteens. Mr. Kamath said that there were 13 rice mills in Dakshina Kannada. All of them could not resume operations due to shortage of workers. As many as three of them have now begun making boiled rice. Mr. Shetty said that 1,500 workers and others in Mangaluru City North were being supplied with meals twice a day. In addition, Indira Canteens were supplying food to 2,200 persons daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meals-being-served-to-stranded-workers-and-destitute-say-mlas/article31243096.ece
03 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Movement of private vehicles banned across Dakshina Kannada till April 14||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh on Thursday issued an order banning the movement of all private vehicles, excluding permitted categories, across the district till midnight on April 14, to effectively implement the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. Thursday’s magisterial order was in addition to the officer’s order passed on March 31 extending the prohibitory orders imposed under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. People, however, can buy essential commodities as usual between 7 a.m. and noon from the nearest shops, she said. In rural areas, however, Ms. Rupesh said, two-wheelers, three-wheeler and four-wheeler goods vehicles could operate during the relaxation hours so as to facilitate buying of essentials by the rural population. In a video message, Police Commissioner P.S. Harsha said that the move was to discourage movement of people during the relaxation hours. Vehicles with emergency passes issued by the district administration, of medical fraternity and media persons of all categories, however could operate, he said. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said that relaxation for two-wheelers was given in rural areas as people have to travel from villages to the nearest shops to buy essential supplies. Vehicles operating in violation of the magisterial order would be seized by the police and transport departments, Ms. Rupesh cautioned. Market shifted In the same order, Ms. Rupesh ordered shifting of the wholesale vegetable and fruits market, now functioning from Central Market premises, to the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Yard at Baikampady. Only retail traders can enter the Baikampady wholesale market while entry of the general public is prohibited, she said. People should buy fruits and vegetables from shops near their residences, she added. However, wholesale trading in groceries would continue in the Bunder sub-market, she said and added that wholesale traders are prohibited from selling products to individual buyers. While wholesalers could receive goods between 7 a.m. and noon, retail merchants could lift goods between 1 p.m. and 7 p.m. at Bunder. Medical emergency Ms. Rupesh said that people could avail themselves of ambulance services by calling Ph: 108 for medical emergencies. If 108 ambulances were not available, they may call the toll free number 1077 to get emergency medical passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movement-of-private-vehicles-banned-across-dakshina-kannada-till-april-14/article31243093.ece
03 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCC invokes emergency provisions||Invoking emergency powers under Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner S. Ajithkumar Hegde on Thursday banned entry of vehicles carrying patients suffering from contagious diseases, including COVID-19, into the corporation limits. MCC is obligated to prevent and check spread of dangerous diseases, he said and passed the orders. The restriction also applies to vehicles carrying persons who have come into contact with patients suffering from such diseases. A similar resolution was passed by Talapady Gram Panchayat in Karnataka that borders Kasaragod district through which NH66 passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-invokes-emergency-provisions/article31242903.ece
03 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru barbers ready to offer ‘home service’||Is haircutting an essential service during COVID-19 lockdown? The answer will be known in a day or two as neighbourhood hairdressers and traditional barbers in Mysuru have sought ‘pass’ from the district administration and the police to offer “home service”. A group of barbers have come together to offer the home service — subject to police clearance — at no extra cost. Prashanth, who has been in the field all his life, said they have put up a requisition with local MLA S.A. Ramdas and the district administration. “We are also ascertaining public feedback to the idea and will decide on how to go about it,” he added. Ensureing hygiene To test waters, the names and phone numbers of barbers in various residential areas of the city are doing the rounds on social media. “Once we elicit public response to the idea, will take it forward,” Mr. Prashanth said while reiterating that it was subject to authorisation by the police. Though there is no formal association as such, the members of the group have averred that they will take precautionary measures, including wearing masks and ensuring high degree of hygiene when going about the task. Preference will be given to retgular customers of the area though a nominal amount of Rs. 20 may be charged in addition to the regular fee in case the customer lives afar. There are 1,200 hairdressing salons in the city each employing an average of two to three persons. The lockdown has hurt them financially and this may be a temporary reprieve. But given the “occupational hazard” by way of physical proximity entailed in offering a haircut, social distancing, which requires maintaining a 3-ft gap with others — in this case the customers, will be difficult to maintain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-barbers-ready-to-offer-home-service/article31242885.ece
03 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Increase in poaching cases in national parks||The COVID-19 lockdown and closure of meat stalls have coincided with a surge in poaching of wild animals, as evident in three cases in the last few days. In the latest incident, Forest Department personnel nabbed one person identified as Ashoka in the Kalahalla range of the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve in the early hours of Thursday. The forest guards intercepted a gang which was exiting from the forest boundary and three of the four members escaped from the scene. However, Ashoka was taken into custody and is being interrogated. The officials seized deer meat from him. A hunt has been launched to nab the others. This is the second incident in Nagarahole since the lockdown. In the earlier case the authorities had sighted another gang in the forest which evaded arrest but they recovered deer meat. In the adjoining Bandipur, four persons in the Gundre range whose photographs were captured in the camera-trap, were taken into custody by the authorities last week. They were charged with trespassing and poaching and remanded in judicial custody. The accused were named as Venkate Gowda, Mahadevappa, Puttaswamy Nayaka and Ganesh while the fifth, identified as Machi, is absconding. Sources said despite the lockdown the Forest Department was fully equipped to handle any exigency and all its staff were deployed on fire fighting and watch duty. The cancellation of safaris has also helped augment their field force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-in-poaching-cases-in-national-parks/article31242870.ece
03 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru, Chamarajanagar jails release inmates||Jails in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts have begun releasing some of the inmates to decongest jails in view of COVID-19 outbreak. While 55 undertrials and convicts were released from Mysuru jail in the last two days, 18 inmates were released from the prison in Chamarajanagar. The inmates have been released on interim bail for two months.While the undertrials are facing charges that involved a maximum prison term of seven years, the convicts were facing criminal and miscellaneous cases of the family court. Most of the convicts released were those who had not paid the maintenance costs ordered by the family courts in divorce cases. The release comes after a direction was issued by the Supreme Court and the subsequent formulation of guidelines for the process by a high-level committee constituted by the High Court of Karnataka. The prisoners, who were released after the court’s orders, executed a self-bond of Rs. 50,000 with an undertaking that they will appear before jurisdictional court on June 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-chamarajanagar-jails-release-inmates/article31242878.ece
03 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||‘Join hands in fight against virus’||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has invited NGOs to join hands in the fight against novel coronavirus. “Considering the importance of public participation at this juncture, NGOs can join the district administration by registering their details with the specified nodal officer” he said at a meeting here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/join-hands-in-fight-against-virus/article31242883.ece
03 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Surveillance heightened||The district administration in Shivamogga, where no positive case of COVID-19 has been reported so far, has heightened surveillance at its check-posts bordering Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Davangere that have reported positive cases. Shivamogga shares its borders with five districts of which three — Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Davangere — have reorted positive cases. All the 15 check-posts in the border areas of the district have been secured. And, the focus is on the eight check-posts bordering these three districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surveillance-heightened/article31243098.ece
03 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Stranded at the border||As many as 95 people — all migrant workers and their children — from Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts of Andhra Pradesh and Malkangiri district of Odisha, who were working in Karnataka, have been spending the past few days at a temporary shelter at Madhugiri in Tumakuru district. Earlier to being housed in the shelter, they spent two nights on the streets on Karnataka–Andhra Pradesh border near Amarapura in Sira taluk, as the Andhra Pradesh police did not allow them to enter their State. Of the 95 people, 50 are men, 42 are women and three children. They had come to work in Shivamogga district, Challakere in Chitradurga district, and Hassan district four months back. They were working in Hassan during the outbreak of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown. Desperate to return to their home towns, they travelled to the border in mini-trucks, but they were denied entry by the Andhra Pradesh police. Migrant worker of C.S. Puram in Prakasam district, B. Ravi, told The Hindu , “The police made us wait and then asked us to go back without providing any alternative.” He alleged that though the police gave them food, they did not even allow them eat until they retreated back to the Karnataka side. “A farmer was kind enough to provide us water and allow us to stay on his land. Some villagers gave us rice and vegetables to cook food,” he said. Construction worker of Teenrajpalli in Malkangiri K. Lakshman said they were chased when they stopped at the shops on the way at Sira to buy water bottles and biscuits. A police officer of Pattanayakanahalli station came to the spot and warned the villagers and told them to allow the group to stay near the village till they were provided shelter. Finally, the Madhugiri taluk administration has provided them shelter at Kittur Rani Chennamma Residential School at Nallekamanahalli. Tahsildar of Madhugiri G. Vishwanath said as the students had gone home, cooks of the school had been told to cook for them and a police van had been stationed to provide security. Taluk social welfare officer S.L. Harish said taluk health officer visited them and a PHC doctor examined all of them and certified them to be healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stranded-at-the-border/article31242875.ece
03 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Traditional fishing not banned in Udupi district||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Thursday that traditional fishing had not been banned in Udupi district but catching and selling fish in groups was prohibited on account of COVID-19. Speaking to presspersons after receiving a donation of Rs. 1 crore from Udupi Nirmiti Kendra to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, Mr. Jagadeesha said that traditional boat fishermen could do fishing but they had to maintain social distancing. The sale of fish, mutton and chicken was already permitted in the district. The administration had already taken steps to see that there was no shortage of food items in the district. Arrangements had been made to transport and sell agricultural and horticultural produce in the district. There was no shortage of food items under the Public Distribution System, he said. The administration was providing nutritious food and fruits to those under quarantine due to COVID-19. Criminal cases would be filed against those violating conditions of home quarantine, he said. None from Jamaat To a query, Mr. Jagadeesha said that no one from Udupi district had attended the recent Tablighi Jamaat programme in New Delhi. But 16 persons from the district were in Delhi during that period for other work and their location was traced through their mobile telephone records. Of these 16 persons, nine were put under hospital quarantine, while seven were out of the district and the administration had informed the authorities of the districts where they were staying to take necessary steps, Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traditional-fishing-not-banned-in-udupi-district/article31243097.ece
03 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||The long and gruelling road did not take them home||It took five gruelling days for Mohammed Nadeem and four of his friends to reach Vijayapura from Bengaluru, which is about 500 km away. Their hopes of going back to their home town, Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, are on hold for now, as they are spending time at a temporary shelter in Vijayapura. Workers in a garment unit in Bengaluru for about six years, they were forced to vacate the house in K.R. Market area by the owner once the lockdown began. He suspected they could be carriers, though they showed no symptoms. That is when they decided to return to their home town by some means. No work, no shelter “With no work, we decided to take a chance to travel to Uttar Pradesh. But landed here,” Mr. Nadeem said. They reached National Highway 13 (which starts in Mangaluru and goes up to Solapur, touching Bengaluru and Vijayapura en route). “Since buses and trains are cancelled, we somehow reached the national highway, hoping that at least the lorries will help us,” he said. They had to change seven trucks before they reached Vijayapura. However, they ran out of luck with transport and money here and are staying put in the temporary shelter in a wedding hall. Ibne-Ali, another person of the group, said that truck drivers collected Rs. 5,00 to Rs. 1,000 from them only for around 50 km. “All our savings are gone in paying the truck drivers. We slept on the roadside and ate whatever we could get on the way,” he said. “We are thankful to the officials here for giving us at least this facility. We are getting free food and shelter,” Mr. Nadeem said. Though all of them are eagerly waiting to go home, they are also aware that during lockdown they cannot move out. Boys from Udupi The same shelter also has a group of 13 boys from Udupi, who were working in Mumbai and are currently jobless. They said they were working in different hotels in Mumbai, but after the announcement of the lockdown, reached up till Vijayapura city a week ago in private vehicles. But after reaching here, they had no vehicles to move further. The district administration has provided them food and shelter. In other districts too In Belagavi district, around 1,000 migrant workers have been housed in temporary camps set up in government hostels and residential schools in Belagavi city, Bailhongal, Hukkeri, and Kittur. Meanwhile, every day, scores of labourers keep walking into Belagavi district to reach other districts. Dundappa Pujari and his brother have walked around 200 km from Maharashtra to reach their home town of Kushtagi. Siddu Tammanna, and his wife have reached Muddebihal after walking for around 180 km from Chandagad in Maharashtra. The situation is similar in Bidar. Srikant Navdagi, an electrician who was stuck in Hyderabad after lockdown, has reached his native village, Khatak in Bhalki taluk of Bidar, with 12 others engaged in various kinds of small jobs. Most of them did not even receive their salary for the March, but have together spent around Rs. 26,000 for transportation, while during regular season it could cost around Rs. 8,000 for the same distance. Seven members of three families, who have returned from Mumbai to Basavakalyan, have had to walk miles while they got transport for only part of the way. “We walked for two days,” said Ramesh, who worked in a garment factory. They caught a Hyderbad-bound truck at Pune and got off at Basavakalyan.  (With addit0ional inputs from Rishikesh Bahadur Desai in Belagavi and Praveen Para in Kalaburagi.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-long-and-gruelling-road-did-not-take-them-home/article31242876.ece
03 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||2,400 workers from Rajasthan reach home||On humanitarian basis, the Vijayapura district administration reportedly arranged for the transport of 2,400 workers from Rajasthan to safely reach their home towns. The workers, who were employed in different fields, wanted to go back to their native places but the lockdown had prevented their return. Although Deputy Commissioner of Vijayapura district Y.S. Patil has neither confirmed nor denied making the arrangement, an officer attached to another government agency confirmed this. Speaking to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, he said the labourers were sent to Rajasthan in around 60 KSRTC buses along with six nodal officers. The official clarified that the transportation was done after taking required permission from the two State governments. The drivers took two days to reach the Rajasthan border. On return, the buses were sanitised, the official said. Meanwhile, Mr. Patil said that nothing could be revealed as he had no authority to speak on this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2400-workers-from-rajasthan-reach-home/article31242877.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Meet team that targets fake news||Are you being flooded with messages on WhatsApp claiming that you are less likely to get COVID-19 if you eat garlic or drink hot water? Or, have you received ‘urgent’ circulars claiming that the lockdown will be extended till June or that colleges will be closed till the end of May? The pandemic has led to rumour mongering with social media magnifying the problem. To counter this, the government is developing a strategy to keep a check on fake news. A team headed by senior IAS officer C. Shikha, who is the nodal officer for social media communication and several agencies who handle social media platforms for different departments, are collaborating to develop a strategy. The team regularly monitors social media platforms and picks out fake news. It also regularly publishes ‘myth busters’ so that citizens don't fall prey to fake news. Besides tackling fake news, Ms. Shikha said that they are using different social media platforms to ensure that citizens get updates related to COVID-19. “We are trying to break down government orders and advisories in a simple and effective manner. We are developing posters with graphics and pictures so that it is easy for people to comprehend,” she said. Besides Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, they have found that Tik Tok is very popular, particularly among those living in rural areas. Sushma Bharadwaj, who is part of an ad agency that handles digital marketing for BMTC, is a part of the collaborative effort. “We are putting out information on social distancing, how to shop safely in markets, etc. The style of communication differs based on the target group and social media platforms,” said Ms. Bharadwaj. Information, once disseminated, is sent to different departments that put it up on their social media handles. “We are also circulating them on different WhatsApp groups and sending it to all Deputy Commissioners in the State,” Ms. Shikha added. The team has created special videos in sign language for those with hearing disabilities as well as jingles for the visually challenged. The videos and jingles are related to the Dos and Don’ts pertaining to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meet-team-that-targets-fake-news/article31242866.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||200 beds at St. John’s hospital||St. John’s Medical College Hospital has dedicated 200 beds at its facility for the treatment of patients with COVID-19. Separate arrangements have been made to screen, isolate and treat patients, and those suspected to be carrying the novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/200-beds-at-st-johns-hospital/article31242860.ece
03 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||High vigil imperative, says Sudhakaran||A review meeting chaired by Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Thursday decided to strengthen the measures to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Mr. Sudhakaran said there was no community-level spread of the disease in the district. “Doctors have, however, warned of a COVID-19 emergency at any time. As such, we will continue to maintain a high vigil,” the Minister said. The Minister said eight persons, including seven from the Onattukara region and one person from Alappuzha, had attended a religious conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. “All the eight persons and their contacts are under the observation of the Health Department,” the Minister said. Officials said no fresh case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on Thursday. A total of 7, 098 people were in home quarantine. Of the 306 samples collected so far, 283 have tested negative for the disease. Police use helicams The police have started using helicams to find those violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. The police on Thursday registered 301 cases and arrested 319 people for violating the restrictions in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-vigil-imperative-says-sudhakaran/article31243253.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,KERALA||Nod for regularising layouts in hill areas||The State government has decided to regularise unapproved layouts and plots in hill areas. It has notified the Tamil Nadu Regulari-sation of Unapproved Layouts and Plots in Hilly Areas Rules, 2020. The hill areas were under the purview of the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-regularising-layouts-in-hill-areas/article31243220.ece
03 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pandemic turns tea a bitter brew for plantations||Tea plantations and small-scale tea growers are in a crisis following the closure of factories and the curbs on engaging labourers after the lockdown to contain COVID-19. “If tea leaves are not plucked on time, the plant has to be pruned to make it yield again. And the lockdown has come when tea plantations are already in a crisis. This is a testing time for the sector,” says the manager of a tea estate at Vandiperiyar. “Unlike other crops, tea leaves have to be plucked when two leaves and the bud are ready. If not done, additional labour and time are lost as the plant has to be pruned,” he says. He says works were stopped when the lockdown was announced last week and most workers, even those operating leaf-plucking machines, had left for their native places. The shortage of labourers and trained hands to pluck leaves had led to mechanisation and leaves are now plucked mostly by means of machines. The closed tea factories and stoppage of production would deal a long-term blow to the crisis-ridden plantation sector. Hundreds of small-scale tea growers, especially in Peerumade, Idukki, Devikulam and Udumbanchola taluks, are abandoning the plucked leaves in the absence of buyers. “A double whammy, this has increased the financial burden on us as tea leaves have to be plucked and abandoned as there is no market,” says Sebastian Joseph, a small-scale tea grower at Calvery Mount. Better prices He says the prices of tea are better these days and there has been good yield after the summer rain. The leaves fetched Rs. 18 a kg before the factories were closed following the lockdown. “Though it is said that the farm sector has been given exemption from the lockdown, tea factories are remaining closed and there are no takers for green leaves,” says Muraleedharan, a farmer in Peerumade. “Leaves are ready for harvest every two weeks and will overgrow if not plucked. Though without a reward, farmers have to pluck and abandon them,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-turns-tea-a-bitter-brew-for-plantations/article31243222.ece
03 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Five new cases in Idukki district||Five more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Idukki district on Thursday. In addition to the Churuly resident, the primary contact of the politician from Cheruthoni who was earlier found positive, his wife, son and mother too were diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. The son of a Bison Valley resident, infected with the disease, also tested positive on Thursday. A person from Thodupuzha who had participated at the religious meeting in Nizamuddin too was diagnosed with the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-new-cases-in-idukki-district/article31243251.ece
03 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Telemedicine units for chronically ill launched||In view of the lockdown, the Wayanad district administration in association with Sree Chitra Tele Health Unit (SeTHU ) of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Health Department has launched a telemedicine project for patients with chronic diseases. “The project envisages providing the services of specialty and super-specialty physicians from outside the district for patients with chronic illnesses and provide medicines to them at their doorstep during the lockdown period,” K.K. Muhammed Aslam, nodal officer of the project, said. “Many a time, patients in the district are depending on super-specialty hospitals such as Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, SCTIMST and Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, owing to the dearth of such medical care facilities in the hill district,” Dr. Aslam said. “Moreover, many of them were now finding it difficult to reach hospitals on time for follow-up treatment or to buy medicines,” he added. SeTHU has provided two telemedicine units for the project. Each air-conditioned units are customised vehicles with modern facilities. For details, call 04936203400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telemedicine-units-for-chronically-ill-launched/article31243213.ece
03 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Kasaragod to scale up facilities at government hospitals||The district administration has decided to scale up facilities at government hospitals in Kasaragod. The decision was taken in the wake of Karnataka refusing to reopen border roads, affecting several patients in the district who were dependent on hospital facilities in the neighbouring State. Soon after there was an increase in COVID-19 cases in Kasaragod, the Karnataka government decided to close the national highway and other arterial border roads that connected Mangaluru in Karnataka to the district. The roads were blocked by dumping laterite soil and putting up barricades. Karnataka police officers were deployed at the check-post, and they denied entry to vehicles or people from Kerala. Six persons who reportedly tried to cross the check-post and were forced to return later died without getting specialised treatment. A lot of people in Kasaragod were dependent on Mangaluru hospitals for dialysis and chemotherapy, District Collector D. Sajith Babu told The Hindu . Hence, it was decided to increase shifts from one to three in dialysis units at the Kasaragod Government Hospital, District Hospital and the Trikaripur Taluk Hospital. It would help treat over 100 patients a day, he said. Fifteen volunteers would join duty on Friday to work additional shifts at the dialysis units, he added. Mr. Babu said the district administration decided to send patients who needed chemotherapy to the Government Medical College at Pariyaram in Kannur and to hospitals in Kozhikode. He added that people should not worry about the availability of medicines as there was sufficient stock for the next two weeks. Medicines will be delivered at homes for orders placed via the toll-free number 0499 255004. The Collector said the service of a junior health inspector would be extended to endosulfan patients in the district. With the Kasaragod Government Hospital and the Central University of Kerala converted into COVID-19 treatment centres, it has been decided to fully utilise facilities at the District Hospital at Kanhangad to treat people suffering from other diseases, District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj has said. The facilities at E.K. Nayanar Memorial Cooperative Hospital at Chengala were also being utilised, he added. In Malappuram An 85-year-old man from Kariyamad near Poonthanam, Keezhattur, in the district was found COVID-19 positive on Thursday. He was admitted to Government Medical College, Manjeri. There are 11 other affected persons in the district. His son, who returned after Umra pilgrimage on March 11, had visited and interacted with him. He reached City Hospital at Pattikkad on March 26 morning when he developed a fever and cough. He returned home after getting medicines in the afternoon. He reached the hospital on March 28 morning again and took an injection. He reached a private clinic at Akkaparamba on March 29 and 30 morning and took an injection. However, he did not step out of his vehicle on those occasions. He was administered an injection in the same manner on March 31 night also. He reached City Hospital at Pattikkad on March 31 evening, and his blood sample was taken for testing. He was admitted to MES Medical College, Perinthalmanna, on March 31 night. He was shifted to Government Medical College, Manjeri, at 3.30 a.m. on April 1. His wife, son, daughter-in-law and their children are in quarantine at Government Medical College, Manjeri. His son had returned after Umra from Jeddah by Saudi Arabian Airlines flight SV 746 to Karipur at 10.20 a.m. on March 11. All passengers who travelled on this flight should contact the district control cell for COVID-19 and should enter in self-quarantine. They should not directly go to any hospital if they develop any symptoms of COVID-19, said District Collector Jafer Malik. The control cell can be reached at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253. Meanwhile, 1,156 more people were put in quarantine in the district on Thursday. Meanwhile, the first COVID-19 case of Malappuram, a woman from Vaniyambalam near Wandoor, got cured. In Thrissur A 36-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. The man, who had returned from Surat, was under home quarantine. He was admitted to Thrissur Medical College Hospital. As many as 19,099 persons are under observation in the district. In Kozhikode One more person has been diagnosed positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district, taking the total number of infected patients here to seven. The 25-year-old man reached the Calicut International Airport at 8 p.m. on March 18 from Dubai on the Air India flight AI 938. He went home by his own vehicle by 9 p.m. and reached there by 11 p.m. He had been under home isolation since then. He was taken to the isolation ward attached to the Government Medical College Hospital here by a specially designated ambulance by 1.30 p.m. on March 31. A total of 21,934 people are under observation in the district now. Four persons were discharged. In Ernakulam On Thursday, 287 people were added to the list of people in home quarantine in Ernakulam district. Also, 1,034 people who completed the quarantine period were removed from the list. There are now 3,843 people in home quarantine in the district. The Corona Control Room (0484-2368802, 2428077, 2424077) received 12 calls on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-to-scale-up-facilities-at-government-hospitals/article31243197.ece
03 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Endosulfan victims in Kasaragod go without medicines||Ever since the lockdown was declared, 37-year-old Sajitha is having sleepless nights. A resident of Kayyur in Kasaragod, her only hope to fight cancer is the medicines that she receive from Mumbai every month. However, the sudden lockdown has made life uncertain for many endosulfan victims like her who rely on medicines and treatment from across the border. Moreover, the delay in receiving pension, which has been pending for the past five months, has added to their woes. Ms. Sajitha is suffering from renal problems and was diagnosed with cancer in 2015. However, after the surgery, cancer spread to other parts of her body and she is surviving on the medicine which she receives from V Care, a non-governmental organisation in Mumbai. But with the lockdown, she has lost all hope of receiving the medicines. “I am not sure about receiving the medicines despite bringing the issue to the attention of the district administration,” she said. The organisation sends the medicine every three weeks. The tablets cost over Rs. 1 lakh. It is not locally available and is too costly for her to afford, she said adding that the tablets have to be continued. Pension only solace Hailing from a very poor family, the pension money is the only solace for her. However, she said the pension had been pending for the past five months to endosulfan victims and they were going through a tough phase. Meanwhile, the closing down of State borders has further increased the woes of the victims. “We were regularly taking our son to a neurologist in Mangaluru. But with the road closed, how can we treat him in the absence of a good superspecialty hospital in Kasaragod,” asked Praveena, mother of 13-year-old endosulfan victim suffering from cerebral palsy. Even the physician who usually visits home would not be able to come following the lockdown. Another endosulfan victim, M.V. Raveendran, a resident of Ajanur grama panchayat, said they were unable to get medicines from the hospital. “I’m getting treatment at the Kannur Government Medical College at Pariyaram. However, they have stopped giving medicines citing non-availability,” he said. Even these tablets are not readily available at Karunarya stores or Neethi stores. In such a situation, the lockdown had made life miserable for the victims, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/endosulfan-victims-in-kasaragod-go-without-medicines/article31243233.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Food processing units among SMEs reopen||Around 40% of the 500 small and medium enterprises in Ernakulam district engaged in food processing have resumed operations after the State government decided to allow food processors to begin work. The government decision is aimed at ensuring availability of food during the national lockdown. The district administration has empowered the District Industries Manager to decide on the units to be reopened. According to sources in the Industries Department, food processing units are spread across the eastern suburbs of Kochi. The food processing industry constitutes a major chunk of the estimated 1,50,000 micro, small and medium-sized industrial units in the State. These units include fruits and vegetable processing, spice processing, pickle and curry powder preparation as well as manufacture of food ingredients and packaging materials. Bakers and hoteliers too have been allowed to operate under strict conditions. They cannot allow customers to eat at the outlets. There will be only takeaways. The operation of such units has been restricted to between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Meanwhile, local self-government bodies are keeping an eye on the operation of the units. According to a communication from the Public Relations Department, SMEs and other units that have been reopened to ensure availability of essential commodities must adopt measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Social distancing and hygienic practices are the responsibilities of persons or groups running such establishments, it said. It is estimated that small and medium enterprises employ around three million people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-processing-units-among-smes-reopen/article31243190.ece
03 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A ‘buddy’ for migrant workers||For migrant workers settled far away from the comfort of their homes, a ‘buddy’ dropping in every now and then enquiring about their well-being can be so comforting. Bandhu, meaning buddy in Bengali, a mobile health clinic deployed on a pilot basis at migrant workers’ camps since last Saturday has that soothing effect for a largely marginalised community. The project has been implemented under Athithi Devo Bhava, the National Health Mission (NHM) campaign to coordinate migrant welfare projects, in association with the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID). While Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited sponsored the purchase and customisation of vehicle, ESAF Small Finance Bank is bearing the expenses of its operations. “This is arguably the first-of-its-kind initiative for migrant community anywhere in the country. It is aimed at ensuring migrant workers access to quality healthcare surmounting the barriers of language, location and timing, which often denied them conventional healthcare services,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, CMID. The deployment of ‘Bandhu’ was fast-tracked in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak though the customisation of the vehicle was yet to be complete. “The mobile clinic now focusses on awareness creation on COVID-19 and active screening of migrants. Since its deployment, it has covered around 20 migrant camps screening around 1,400 migrant workers,” said Akhil Xavier Manuel, nodal officer for Athithi Devo Bhava. Migrants found to be in need of medicines and further follow-up will be taken care of by the Primary Health Centres (PHCs) concerned. “Though the focus is on COVID-19, workers do come up with other ailments like chronic back pain arising out of their harsh working conditions and for which they could not afford medicines or treatment till now.” The mobile clinic has one doctor, two junior health inspectors, and a coordinator, nurse and a driver each. The nurse is multilingual. It can also rope in 11 migrant link workers, if needed, trained by NHM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-buddy-for-migrant-workers/article31243211.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Forests in better health||The COVID-19-induced lockdown has done good to the forests as the number of fire alerts has plummeted by nearly one-fourth of last year’s cases. The Forest Fire Alerts System of the Forest Survey of India (FSI) recorded 59 incidents since March 24, when the State went for the lockdown. However, there were 232 such alerts during the corresponding period last year. The strikingly low number of fire alerts underscores the “working theory” of the department that the majority of forest fires are man-made, say senior forest officials. A comparison of the fire data for March, the peak summer and fire-prone month of the year, during the current year and the previous year reveals an unusual drop in fire alerts. The FSI reported 209 alerts during March this year against 576 in March 2019. The most number of such alerts was reported from Idukki (71) followed by Pathanamthitta (54) this time. An analysis of the number of alerts during the last two weeks of March this year with the figures of the previous year comes in as a surprise for forest officials. While 61 incidents were recorded between March 16 and March 23 this year, it was 138 fire incidents during the corresponding period last year. The seven-day period starting March 9 this year saw just 60 incidents against 260 of the previous year.  Low human interference Head of Forest Force, Kerala, P.K. Kesavan says the reduction in the fire alerts could be attributed to the reduced human interference in forest fringes and forest routes following the lockdown. The forest tracts are now free of any human activity, which might have resulted in the sharp decline in the number of incidents, Mr. Kesavan told The Hindu . Changes in weather patterns such as difference in atmospheric temperature and summer showers could influence the forest fire every year. However, there are no unusual weather incidents of that magnitude this year, which could lead to the significant drop in fire incidents, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forests-in-better-health/article31243245.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fire services lends a hand to 6-year-old patient||The Fire and Rescue Services Department on Wednesday night ran a unique relay spread across four districts to deliver medicines to a six-year-old boy in the city suffering from brain tumour. The mission, which began around 7.30 p.m. at Thiruvananthapuram, was successfully completed shortly before midnight when the medicines were delivered at the house of Alfey Nibin at Thripunithura in Ernakulam. The medicines from a homeo clinic at Kazhakkoottam were passed on among the fire force personnel in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Ernakulam before it was handed over to the boy by MLA M. Swaraj. “The fire force collected a set of four medicines for consumption seven times a day from my clinic. The boy has been under treatment for over four years and usually the medicines are couriered to the family,” said Dr. T.P. Anilkumar. Alfey’s parents Nibin and Deepa were emotional wrecks as they could not arrange for the medicines owing to the lockdown and they reached out to Kanivu Pain and Palliative Care Society. The Society, in turn, approached Mr. Swaraj and the DYFI Thripunithura block committee. “We contacted the DYFI COVID-19 helpline and were about to arrange the transportation of the medicines using an ambulance when the Chief Minister in his daily press briefing on COVID-19 asked the fire force to help deliver life-saving medicines across districts,” said CPI(M) local secretary Rakesh Pai. Following this, the DYFI reached out to Thiruvananthapuram fire force officer C. Ashok Kumar, who made arrangements to collect the medicines from the homeo clinic. They delivered it to the next fire and rescue team waiting at Kollam, who passed it on to their counterparts at Alappuzha. They then rushed it and handed it over to Thripunithura station officer K. Shaji. “We delivered the medicines in a relay to avoid the logistical hiccup of one of our vehicles coming all the way from Thiruvananthapuram and going back,” said Mr. Shaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-services-lends-a-hand-to-6-year-old-patient/article31243203.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy fabricates 3D face shields||The Naval Aircraft Yard, Kochi, fabricated 3D face shields for use by healthcare officials to augment the ongoing efforts at the Southern Naval Command against COVID-19. The face shields, post-prototype testing and clearance by the Naval Hospital in Kochi — INHS Sanjeevani — have been handed over to the authorities in Kochi and additionally to the Naval Aviation Headquarters in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-fabricates-3d-face-shields/article31243193.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vanitha Jan Dhan aid to be disbursed from today||Banks will start distributing the Rs. 500 aid through Vanitha Jan Dhan accounts from Friday. Financial institutions have introduced a scheme for the distribution of the money so as to reduce the crowding of account holders in the banks and to observe social distancing. The dates allotted for the aid for women are as follows: Account numbers ending with ‘0’ and ‘1’ can collect the money on April 3. Account numbers ending with ‘2’ and ‘3’ on April 4, ‘4’ and ‘5’ on April 7, ‘6’ and ‘7’ on April 8 and ‘8’ and ‘9’ on April 9, said a communication issued by N. Ajit krishnan, convener of the State Level Bankers' Committee, Kerala. Even if the money is not withdrawn on the allotted days, it will remain credited in the account and could be taken later. The delay in withdrawing the money will not be a hindrance for receiving the future instalments of financial assistance, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vanitha-jan-dhan-aid-to-be-disbursed-from-today/article31243228.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Special flight for Oman nationals||Oman Air will operate a special flight on Friday to evacuate 53 Oman nationals who underwent medical treatment in various hospitals in Ernakulam and adjoining districts. Most of them reached Kochi March 3 and have completed treatment and quarantine compliance. The flight will arrive directly from Muscat here at 2 p.m. on Friday and take off at 2.50 p.m. for Chennai from where more Oman nationals will board the flight. It will then fly directly back to Muscat. The Oman Embassy in India will oversee the passenger transition. All the passengers will arrive in separate cars around 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-flight-for-oman-nationals/article31243191.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval ship assists stranded fishing boat||Navy’s diving support vessel Nireekshak , which was on mission patrol along the coast of Kerala, came to the rescue of 10 fishermen stranded on board a Tamil Nadu-registered fishing boat, Saint Nicholas , off the coast of Kochi. The boat with a 10-member crew did not have sufficient fuel, water, and provision to reach the home port of Kolachel in Tamil Nadu. Nireekshak , a ship under the Southern Naval Command in Kochi, provided assistance to the fishing boat by transferring 300 litres of fuel, water, and provision to sustain the occupants till they reach their home port. In view of the advisories on COVID-19, it was ensured that all transfer was done without physical contact with the boat or crew. The boat had left Kochi on March 12 for fishing in the Arabian Sea and has not touched any other port since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-ship-assists-stranded-fishing-boat/article31243192.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SFI holds online arts fest||Over 700 students participated in the ‘Quarantine’ arts festival organised online by the SFI at Cochin University of Science and Technology. The fest was held to kindle the creative talents of students while remaining indoors. Twenty-five events were held on the second day of the fest on Thursday. Students from 106 colleges participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sfi-holds-online-arts-fest/article31243212.ece
03 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mobile app for real-time tracking of quarantined||Faced with a steady rise in the number of people who are either in home quarantine or in isolation, the Kottayam district administration is riding the digital wave to improve its workflow and track real-time the progress of its COVID-19 prevention activities. Healthy Kottayam, a mobile app launched by the district administration, pro-actively allows its officials and health workers to access immediate information on any cases reported in Kottayam. According to officials, the app functions as an e-dashboard from wherein data of cases can be analysed. The status of each individual can be updated by the field staff on a daily basis, subject to approval from the medical officer concerned. “By mapping people who may have been infected and risk infecting others, public health officials can identify and take appropriate action to connect with them over the phone and keep them under observation, isolation or recommend testing,” says an official. By engg. college The entries are classified into three classes - all cases, high risk cases and symptomatic cases. Structured, developed and deployed in association with the Amal Jyothi College of Engineering in Kanjirappally, Assistant Collector Sikha Surendran coordinated the initiative. Jis Joe Mathew, a faculty member of college who led the project, says the app would help the administrators to enumerate the list of patients or suspected cases from each of the municipalities and panchayats. To ensure effective operation of the system, the authority has opened a call centre to assist the users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-app-for-real-time-tracking-of-quarantined/article31243259.ece
03 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||New route opened after road collapses||A day after a portion of the road connecting Illikkal and Thiruvarppu caved in to the Meenachil river, authorities on Thursday opened a temporary road to restore the traffic along the route. A decision to open the parallel route was made during a meeting convened by District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu on Thursday. The alternative facility can be used till the collapsed road is reconstructed. The Collector, who visited the spot earlier in the day, directed Public Works Department (PWD) officials to complete the work on the new road at the earliest. In view of the lockdown restrictions in place, special passes will be issued for transportation of materials for the construction. According to officials, the new road will pass through the property of a private individual, who has volunteered to offer his land to restore the connectivity. The PWD will sanction Rs. 1.5 crore for the reconstruction works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-route-opened-after-road-collapses/article31243260.ece
03 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Questions on new Kerala Ordinance||A provision in the recently promulgated Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 is feared to serve as a refutation of the State government’s own objection to the Karnataka government’s closure of the Kasaragod-Mangaluru National Highway in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. According to legal circles, the Constitutional validity of Section 4(2) (C) of the Ordinance empowering the State government to seal the State borders is doubtful. To prevent spread The provision has been incorporated with a view to preventing the spread from one State to another of infectious or contagious diseases, they say noting that prevention of the extension from one State to another of such diseases is a subject falling under the concurrent list of the Constitution. “Section 4(2) (C) of the Ordinance is in conflict with section 8B of the National Highways Act, 1956, a Central legislation,” says T. Asaf Ali, former Director General of Prosecutions in the State. Under Article 254(2) of the Constitution, if the law made by a State legislature with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament, then the prior assent of the President is required, he says. Legal scrutiny The Section in the Ordinance is likely to come under legal scrutiny in the wake of the Kerala High Court Division Bench’s order on April 1 directing the Central government to ensure the removal of the blockade of the NH connecting Kasaragod and Mangaluru enforced following the COVID-19 pandemic. The court, which passed the directive on a public interest litigation, observed that the arterial roads that connect Mangaluru and Kasaragod, are part of the NH network and, therefore, it was the duty of the Central government to ensure that these roads were kept free of blockades. According to legal sources, the High Court has unequivocally ruled the State government has absolutely no right or authority to seal state border by blocking the NH which is under the jurisdiction of the Centre.  The Constitutional validity of Section 4(2) (C) of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance is doubtful||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/questions-on-new-kerala-ordinance/article31243215.ece
03 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Now, trawling ban stares in the face of lockdown-battered fishers||Fishermen and their families across the State are having a tough time with the steep decline in revenue following the lockdown and the delay in announcing a relief package by the Union and State governments. Now, with the Centre deciding to implement trawling ban on June 1, they are apprehensive that the two-month ban period may further aggravate their situation. The majority of fishing harbours in Kerala are non-functional now with the restrictions imposed on auctioning and sales. Only a small group of traditional fishermen now venture out as they have no other options for survival. Welfare package Leaders of fishermen organisations say an interim welfare package is therefore a basic need for supporting the community to overcome the longest lean season. Fishermen Thozhilali Congress vice-president K. Rajan said the State government’s promises of a welfare package for fishers were yet to be realised. “As usual, it will not be reaching the majority of eligible workers who work at the bottom of the traditional sector. People’s representatives too are ignoring their plight now,” he said. Hundreds of migrant labourers employed in the sector were now staying back in the boats in the wake of the COVID-19 scare. As the government was unable to give them accommodation in cities, these workers were forced to remain in boats till the end of the lockdown, union leaders said.  Traditional fishers hit “The fish resources are on the decline. Unlike trawler boat owners, small-scale traditional fishers are the worst-hit and they deserve better support from the government,” said Abdul Razik, secretary of the Kerala Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation. “In the present situation, the State government should try to find out deserving fishermen in each district and provide them reasonable benefits,” he said. As per the Fisheries Department, there are 11.11 lakh fishermen in Kerala, which include 8.22 lakh in the marine sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-trawling-ban-stares-in-the-face-of-lockdown-battered-fishers/article31243231.ece
03 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Heat wave alert in Kozhikode||The district administration has cautioned people against venturing out of their homes during the daytime on Friday and Saturday in view of the heat wave conditions predicted by the Met Department. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said that the maximum temperature is expected to go above the normal of 34 degrees Celsius. This may lead to sunstroke. Senior citizens, pregnant women, those undergoing treatment for diseases, and children are at risk. They should not go out between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heat-wave-alert-in-kozhikode/article31243189.ece
03 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One tests positive in Pathanamthitta||The total number of clinically confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district has gone up to 13, with one more person testing positive for the infection on Thursday. As per a medical bulletin on Thursday, a 26-year-old man who came from Dubai on March 22 has tested positive for the virus infection. He was admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Wednesday. Resident Medical Officer at the hospital Ashish Mohankumar told The Hindu that the condition of the patient, with mild symptoms of throat infection, was stable. The patient had reached the Cochin international airport in an Air Arabia flight (Flight No. G9425), from the Sharjah airport, on March 22. He hired a taxi (driver identified) to a friend’s house at Kaloor and stayed there. He left for his home village of Thumpamon the next morning in another taxi (driver identified). Route map As per the route map of the patient released by the Health Department, he had visited Punjab National Bank branch in Thiruvalla, a hotel at Mulakkuzha, and a pharmacy at Kulanada before reaching the Community Health Centre at Thumpamon on March 23 afternoon. He was placed under home quarantine since 12.45 p.m. on March 23 and admitted to the General Hospital on Wednesday, official sources said. The surveillance teams of the Health Department identified 18 primary contacts and five secondary contacts of the patient. All have been home quarantined. A total of 25 persons, including three persons who attended the controversial Tablighi Jamaat meet held at Nizamuddin in Delhi, have been admitted to the isolation wards at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, District Hospital in Kozhencherry and at the Pushpagiri Medical College Hospital in Thiruvalla as on Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-tests-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article31243256.ece
03 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Ex-Minister’s house could be made isolation ward||The ancestral home of the late V.P.P. Namboodiri, who was a Minister in the government headed by the late Pattom Thanu Pillai in the early 1960s, will be converted into an isolation ward for COVID-19 patients, if the situation warranted, Mathew T. Thomas, MLA, has said. Mr. Thomas, accompanied by Thiruvalla Subcollector Vinay Goel, visited the house at Peringara, in Thiruvalla, on Wednesday. Mr. Namboodiri’s youngest son and social activist Pramod Elamon had handed over the keys to the house to the Subcollector for its appropriate utilisation. Siblings’ consent Mr. Elamon said the decision had been taken with the consent of his brothers, Joy Elamon, managing director of the Kerala Institute of Local Administration, and Anand Elamon, Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation chief general manager. He said the community should launch a concerted, systematic and coordinated campaign to contain the COVID-19 pandemic at the earliest. Appeal to public Mr. Thomas said there were a good number of locked houses and other buildings in the district. He called upon the custodians to permit the authorities to set up isolation wards in these buildings as per requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-ministers-house-could-be-made-isolation-ward/article31243254.ece
03 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Expert panel to put State back on its feet||The State government will set up an expert task force drawn from various departments to chart an action plan that would help the administration scale down the lockdown in phases possibly after April 14. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked States to come up with region-specific schemes to help the respective administrations to reduce the intensity of the nationwide lockdown without triggering a sudden, rapid and uncontrollable rush of people into public places. An official indicated that the easing of the restrictions in eight districts in Kerala identified by the Centre as COVID-19 hotspots might be slower than other localities. High-risk areas The districts flagged as high-risk areas are Kasaragod, Malappuram, Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Ernakulam, and Thiruvananthapuram. He pointed out that Mr. Vijayan had said Kerala could not afford to drop guard though there was no room for panic. Economic activity Officials said the expert committee would suggest means to resurrect economic activity without imperilling public health. The committee would consult all stakeholders and suggest ways to restore supply lines, kick-start production and restore trade to some measure, though not to pre-lockdown levels at once. The government might give a leg-up to online retail, e-commerce, electronic cash transfer and home delivery of commodities, including food and beverage as takeaways. The committee would decide who should access public places and at what time. It would deliberate on whether the government should increase the number of people allowed to gather in public at a time from more than five, the current quarantine rule, and whether they should open beaches, parks, stadiums and open-air spaces to the public. “It would not be business as usual. But the government hoped to restore some measure of normalcy,” the official said. PM’s focus The Prime Minister had stressed that the country’s fight against the pandemic was likely to be a long and difficult haul. He had told Chief Ministers to ensure that the public maintained social distance norms to guard against the spread of the virus even if the Centre lessened the lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-panel-to-put-state-back-on-its-feet/article31243235.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Collector’s order causes confusion in Pothencode||Confusion prevailed in Pothencode and its adjacent areas on Thursday following an order issued by District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan lifting the ‘additional lockdown measures’ imposed a few days ago in the wake of a death of a person infected with COVID-19. While the order referred to a set of restrictions introduced by the Collector a day ago, it inadvertently created an impression that the district administration had decided to lift all restrictions announced soon after the death on Tuesday. Several people took to the streets on hearing news of the order and the region began witnessing greater vehicular movement. Soon, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who has been spearheading the containment measures in the district, intervened to clear the confusion and maintained that the restrictions will remain in place. Following a meeting with the Collector and other officials, Mr. Surendran told mediapersons that certain instructions issued by Mr. Gopalakrishnan and his subsequent withdrawal of the same paved way for the confusion. According to the Minister, the Collector had thought it best to ensure that ration outlets remained closed. It was proposed to entrust Kudumbashree workers with transporting essential commodities to the houses of beneficiaries. He later realised the impracticality of the task. “Such problems could arise when decisions are taken in a unilateral manner. I have asked him to issue further orders only after due consultations,” Mr. Surendran said. He said that while shops that sold essential commodities in Pothencode and adjacent areas will continue to function from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., ration outlets will be permitted to operate from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m..Mr. Surendran said the source of the deceased’s infection remained a mystery. Throat swab samples of his relatives, friends and others were being collected at camps organised in various places. The Minister criticised the denial of treatment by a private hospital in the city for patients from Pothencode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collectors-order-causes-confusion-in-pothencode/article31243257.ece
03 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Class 12 CBSE students kept on tenterhooks||While Class 10 students are heaving a sigh of relief following a decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) not to conduct any remaining examinations for them in the wake of the COVID-19 situation in the country, uncertainty continues for those appearing for the Class 12 board examinations. The CBSE has decided to conduct papers in 12 key subjects for them. These include papers across all streams. However, no dates have been announced for the rescheduled examinations. A Class 12 Kendriya Vidyalaya Commerce student who has one paper remaining – Business Studies – says she would have been glad if examinations in all subjects had got over so that she could focus on the entrance examinations for the Integrated Programme in Management or Christ University, Bengaluru. However, she is glad that she has fewer subjects than her friends who had chosen Hindi or Information Practice and would require to appear for those too along with Business Studies. “Now, no one can complain that they did not get enough time to study,” she says. She had enrolled for coaching for the entrance examinations. The classes are held online till noon, and they can go over what has been taught later in the day. Students are hoping that with the board examinations getting extended, the results too would, and hopefully entrance examinations too. They say that it is natural for students to take it easy as their holidays began early and all are homebound, but it is important not to lose touch completely. Many, they say, have returned to their study schedules after not opening their books in the initial days after the exams were put on hold. Likely by May They expect the examinations to be held in first week of May and starting revision now would give them enough time to prepare well for the remaining papers. A student who has to appear both for Information Practice and Business Studies papers says she is not unduly worried as she needs to only revise what she has studied earlier. Keen on pursuing B.Com. in colleges under the University of Kerala, she has not applied for entrance examinations and so is not worried. Classes in the university do not start very early either, she says. However, the fact that two more papers remain does put a damper on the mood. “Friends who have finished all their papers, such as those who have opted for Bio-Maths, are enjoying themselves. When we feel like having a blast, thoughts of the remaining exams do intrude.” A school Principal says even if the situation in Kerala improves, it would be difficult to predict how things would be in other States. As the CBSE examinations are a national examination, it would be difficult to predict anything at this stage, and they would need to wait and watch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/class-12-cbse-students-kept-on-tenterhooks/article31243219.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||45 coaches to be turned into isolation units for State||Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad, the two divisions under Southern Railway in the State, have joined Railways’ initiative to convert 20,000 coaches into isolation units to augment the COVID-19 quarantine facilities in the country. Work on modification of non-air conditioned coaches has started in the coaching depots at Nagercoil, Thiruvananthapuram, Kochuveli, and Ernakulam in the Thiruvananthapuram division and at Mangaluru under the Palakkad division. The two divisions will have to convert 45 coaches in 10 days. Southern Railway has been asked to convert 473 coaches that are 15 to 20 years old. “The modification of the coaches is in full swing and the first one is expected to be ready at Nagercoil and Thiruvananthapuram by Friday,” Divisional Railway Manager Shirish Kumar Sinha told The Hindu . The units will be placed in the railway line of key stations in the district headquarters as per the request of the State, Mr. Sinha added. Middle berths removed Eight of the nine cabins in a coach are being converted into an independent isolation ward for four patients each. Since upper berths are not used, each cabin will accommodate two persons, and a coach, 16 persons. Middle berths are being removed from these cabins for more space. The first cabin will have two plastic curtains transversely in the aisle so that the entry and exit to the other eight berth cabins can be monitored. This cabin will be used as store/paramedics area. Two oxygen cylinders are being provided. The side berths and panel walls near the entry/exit will be removed. Reducing heat Extra bottle holders, extra 3 peg coat hooks, mosquito net on windows and three dustbins with foot-operated lids will be made available. One of the four toilets of the coach is being converted into a bathroom. Taps with lift type handle would be provided at washbasins. Bamboo/khus mats on the roof and each side of the coach will reduce the heat inside the coach. “Coaches are being given a facelift too,” senior divisional mechanical dngineer Mohammed Shameem, who is supervising the works in Thiruvananthapuram, said. Twenty coaches will be converted into isolation units in Mangaluru and work on two of them has commenced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/45-coaches-to-be-turned-into-isolation-units-for-state/article31243225.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One more COVID positive case detected in capital||One more person was confirmed to be infected with COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. A native of Thiruvallam, the 47-year- old man had travelled from Dubai on March 21. He was kept in home quarantine initially after he was found to be asymptomatic. With this, the number of those under treatment for the disease in the district has gone up to 10. These included two natives of Kollam and Malappuram. While four persons have been discharged, one person died due to the infection. A total of 54 people were quarantined in the district on the day. On the other hand, ninety-seven people were removed from surveillance after completing the 28-day quarantine period. 85 cases The City police registered 85 cases in connection with lockdown violations. These included nine cases registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. The police regulated queues at ration outlets to prevent crowding in such areas. Meanwhile, tension prevailed at the State-run warehouse in Nedumangad after a group of headload workers demanded remuneration in addition to the approved labour rates for unloading three loads of rice that were brought from Kalady in Ernakulam for distribution among ration outlets in Thiruvananthapuram. The impasse came to an end after the government intervened, following which the loads were unloaded around eight hours after they were brought to the warehouse.  A total of 54 people were quarantined in the district on Thursday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-covid-positive-case-detected-in-capital/article31243258.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest Department to the rescue of tribespeople||At a time when local economies have been reeling under the lockdown necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, tribal communities residing in forests and on its fringes in Thiruvananthapuram are a relieved lot. Embarking on a market intervention initiative to cushion the impacts of the slowdown, the Forest Department has begun to procure forest produce collected by the tribespeople of the Agasthyavanam Biological Park (ABP) and the Neyyar and Peppara forest ranges to be sold to commercial establishments and various collectives. A centralised collection centre has been operationalised at Kottoor to segregate the produce prior to being transported to various places. The endeavour has come as a blessing to several families that stared at an uncertain future following the suspension of village markets, particularly at Kottoor, which functioned as a local commercial hub in the region. The ambitious project, Vanika, formally launched by Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar a day ago, is being undertaken by procuring perishables above the prevailing market rates. The produce on offer during the initial days included various plantain varieties including nendran, rasakadali and chenkadali (kappa pazham in local parlance), tapioca, long beans, wild honey, wild turmeric, areca nut, Malabar tamarind (kudampuli), cashew nuts and coconut. The produce are being marketed through a WhatsApp group that include entrepreneurs, social activists as well as techies’ collectives who can place bulk orders online. Buoyed by the initial response, the department is toying with the idea of extending the scheme to other tribal regions in the State. According to Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani, forest officers have been entrusted with collecting the produce, even from far-flung areas on jeeps and boats. He added that the department also considered procuring rubber sheets from tribespeople to help them sustain their livelihood. Several women from tribal families have been engaged to prepare face masks in a stitching unit that has been established at Kottoor. Enquiries regarding the products’ sale can be directed to beat forest officer Gopika (8547602958).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-department-to-the-rescue-of-tribespeople/article31243265.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF, BJP on collision course||The Karnataka government’s adamant stance against opening its borders with the State and the Central government’s alleged delay in sharing the Goods and Services Tax compensation and other transfers have put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on a collision course. The border closure took a political turn with the Karnataka BJP targeting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday, but he refused to take the bait and brushed it aside saying the State is currently focussed on COVID-19 containment and did not want to shift its accent. But the LDF has to a considerable extent succeeded in keeping the embers smouldering and it has eventually put the State BJP in the dock. LDF charge The LDF had succinctly blamed the BJP of adopting a parochial approach in the face of a grave crisis in contravention to its nationalistic stance and the latter was at a loss in justifying the decision. The LDF has raised the historical links Kasaragod shared with the Dakshina Kannada region to give heft to its argument and the death of people who were stopped on the border came in handy to target the BJP. Without justifying Karnataka, BJP State president K. Surendran chose to put the onus on the State government for the present crisis. The Karnataka government had already announced its decision against admitting patients from other States in its hospitals in February last on health grounds. Still the State government failed to make any arrangements in Kasaragod, he said. The war of words is likely to continue till the judiciary takes a final call on the issue. Isaac’s charge Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has already accused the Centre of failing to support the State to tackle the COVID challenge. While ignoring the demand for releasing the arrears due to the State, the Centre had not enhanced the allocation for the National Health Mission, he said. Once the crisis subsides, Kerala would take the lead in bringing together the non-BJP ruled States to mount pressure on the Centre to wrest dues. Such moves would put the LDF and the BJP on a collision course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-bjp-on-collision-course/article31243217.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways keep freight corridor live for State||Railways have stepped in to move foodgrain and pulses from Punjab, Rajasthan, and Telengana to ensure availability of essential commodities in the State. With the movement of goods trucks yet to normalise through inter-State checkposts, the effort of Railways to keep live the freight corridors has come as relief to Kerala. In the past one week, during the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad railway divisions handled nine rakes of goods trains. On Thursday, 42 wagons carrying wheat arrived from Punjab for use in the Palakkad division area. The rake was equally split and shifted to West Hill and Edakkad. While 1,338 tonnes was shifted to West Hill in Kozhikode, 1,332 tonnes was moved to Edakkad in Kannur. Railways are in touch with the State government and are in the process of transporting pulses from Rajasthan and Telengana, a top railway official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-keep-freight-corridor-live-for-state/article31243226.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Teachers oppose revision of workload guidelines||Teachers’ organisations are up in arms against the government order to revise the norms for fixing minimum requirement of workload for teaching posts in aided arts and science colleges. In its order issued a day ago, the Higher Education Department had modified the criterion for sanctioning regular teaching posts to 16 hours from 9 hours per week currently. The requirement will also apply for those posts sanctioned for single faculty subject. Only guess lecturers can be utilised for subjects with a workload of less than 16 hours. ‘Unilateral move’ Terming the move ‘unilateral’, the Left-leaning All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association (APCTA) has threatened to boycott answer scripts’ valuation duties after the reopening of colleges if the government refused to withdraw the order. AKPCTA general secretary P.N. Hari Kumar said that the order has in effect scrapped the existing norm of considering each hour of postgraduate class as one-and-a-half hours for deciding the number of seats. He cautioned that removing the requirement for permanent faculty for single faculty subjects could lead to a scenario in which statutory bodies, including the Board of Studies, Faculties and Academic Councils, comprised only guest lecturers. The Kerala Private College Managements’ Association and the Kerala Private College Teachers Association have also criticised the government move. NSS flays govt. The Nair Service Society (NSS) too criticised the decision to raise the workload criterion. In a statement here, G. Sukumaran Nair, NSS general secretary, said the decision would undermine the quality of the higher education sector in Kerala, besides the loss of employment opportunities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-oppose-revision-of-workload-guidelines/article31243227.ece
03 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gowda promises to help Kerala||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said former Prime Minister Deva Gowda had promised that he would use his good offices with the Karnataka government to persuade it to lift the blockade on the movement of cargo vehicles into Kerala. Karnataka had refused entry to those from Kasaragod seeking medical aid in Mangaluru. Mr. Vijayan's appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amith Shah and Union Minister of Chemicals D.V. Sadananda Gowda had made no headway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gowda-promises-to-help-kerala/article31243216.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Saplings to be given to 50 lakh families||In a bid to encourage people to grow vegetables at home during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Agriculture Department will distribute seed packets and saplings to 50 lakh households, Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar said here on Wednesday. In a week Agriculture Department farms, the Vegetable and Fruit promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) and Kerala Agricultural University will be ready with the seed sachets and saplings in a week's time, the Minister said. They will be distributed to households through volunteers and rapid response teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saplings-to-be-given-to-50-lakh-families/article31243229.ece
03 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Mysterious figure triggers panic||A “giant-size thief” is causing sleepless nights for the residents of Kunnamkulam, Kattakambal and surrounding areas in Thrissur district during the lockdown. Rumours have been doing the rounds for more than a month now about a gigantic figure that appears during the evenings. Nobody has so far clearly seen the person who is reported to move at lightning speed. Some people call him ‘black man’ while others claim the figure is an odiyan , a shape-shifter. People in many areas around Kunnamkulam and Kattakambal, including Pazhanji, Chirakkal, Porkkulam, Pannithadam, Parakkunnu, Kottol, Karikad, Kallumpuram, Chovvannur, Panthallur, Thiruthikkad and Kakkad, claim to have seen a figure passing near their houses, jumping compound walls and moving quickly. People also started venturing out in groups at night in search of the mysterious figure, violating lockdown norms. As such groups grew in number, the police warned of strict action against them. If people go out in groups to follow the “thief”, action will be taken against them under the Epidemics Act, Kunnamkulam Circle Inspector K.G. Suresh has said. Criminals The police suspect that a group of criminals are behind the rumours related to the gigantic figure. They have urged people to contact the police at 0888522221 if they spot the figure. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen on Thursday visited the Kattakambal area, where many have claimed to have seen the “thief”, and directed the police to strengthen night patrolling in the areas concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mysterious-figure-triggers-panic/article31243209.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Empty stretch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/empty-stretch/article31243262.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||State care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-care/article31243247.ece
03 April 2020||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 more Jamaat returnees identified||The number of persons from Anantapur district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Hazrat Nizamuddin rose from 49 to 77, the district administration said on Thursday, adding that the 28 persons have been tracked and brought to quarantine centres. Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Welfare Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana visited the Technical Training Development Centre at Rapthadu on the city outskirts on Thursday morning. The Minister enquired with District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar about the quarantine arrangements for the inmates and their health status. Samples of 137 persons have been taken so far — 77 Nizamuddin returnees and 60 others. “The VDRL Laboratory which has been converted into a COVID-19 testing centre has so far received 463 samples with 168 coming from Anantapur district and the rest from Kurnool, Kadapa and other places,” Head of Department of Microbiology G. Swarnalatha said. Sigh of relief In a major relief for all the 49 inmates, some of them Nizamuddin returnees and others who came back from Dehradun and Uttar Pradesh, all their samples tested negative in results announced in the morning. Dr. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that a list of 192 first contacts (relatives and friends) of the 77 Tablighi Jamaat attendees was ready with them. “If anyone from the remaining 48 cases yet to be tested turns out to be positive, all the 192 would be put in quarantine and tested,” he said. Meanwhile, two COVID-19 patients — a 10-year-old boy and a 34-year-old woman — both hailing from Lepakshi and being treated in the Isolation Ward at Government General Hospital at Hindupur, are fine and there is no cause of concern, District Coordinator of Hospital Services (DCHS) N. Ramesh said. Nursing homes ready Private nursing homes are also being readied to be handed over to the district administration in case more positive cases come up in the district. In addition to the Government General Hospital, which is the designated COVID-19 hospital, 58 beds in another private hospital have been readied. Five suppliers have come forward to supply Personal Protection Equipment for the health professionals and negotiations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-more-jamaat-returnees-identified/article31242756.ece
03 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||365 samples reach Anantapur||The Department of Microbiology at the Government Medical College in Anantapur received swab samples of 365 suspected COVID-19 cases on Thursday — the highest in a single day so far — ever since a laboratory began functioning here as a COVID-19 testing centre from March 24. The laboratory has received 725 samples so far, of which 182 are from Anantapur district and the remaining from Kurnool, Prakasam and Kadapa districts. From Kurnool, 271 samples of persons who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin were sent on Thursday. Seventy samples were sent from Ongole. The lab received 199 samples on Wednesday. In Anantapur district, 233 samples were drawn and 94 of them tested negative. Two samples from Lepakshi tested positive, and the infected persons are being treated at a Hindupur hospital. The results of 137 cases will arrive on Thursday evening, District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar said. District officials were unable to trace 123 persons out of 1,015 persons in Anantapur district who had a history of foreign travel after February 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/365-samples-reach-anantapur/article31243331.ece
03 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly 1,000 people screened in Karnataka||Nearly 1,000 people from Karnataka, who are linked to Tablighi-Jamaat congregation in Delhi, have been screened following the inputs provided by the Centre and the police, and 11 have tested positive for COVID-19. “Based on inputs given by the police and the Centre, nearly 1,000 people linked to Tablighi Jamat, Nizamuddin, have been screened by health department. Out of them six have been found symptomatic,” Karnataka Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said in a statement. “More than 200 swab samples have been drawn from them,” he said. “Tests are going on in labs, and out of nearly 100 preliminary test results, 11 from Bidar district have tested positive. Contact tracing and isolation works are already on,” he said, adding that out of all identified Tablighi Jamaat members, 19 are foreigners. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said 31 persons were tested in Bengaluru and all results have come out negative. However, the Chief Minister said 391 Tablighi Jamaat workers have been identified so far. Speaking to reporters here, he said, we expect the numbers to go up in the days to come. Noting that the process was on to identify people who travel to other districts or states for preaching and are unable to return due to lockdown, Mr. Yediyurappa said respective district administrations have been asked to identify them and quarantine them wherever they are.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-1000-people-screened-in-karnataka/article31242772.ece
03 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees vow grand fete next year||The scourge of COVID-19 has dampened the otherwise joyful mood of thousands of people of the western side of Chittoor, as for the first time in their lives they had missed the festivities at the famous Sri Pattabhirama Swami temple at Valmikipuram, 20 km from Madanapalle, on Thursday.  Five idols Sri Rama Navami is a household festival here, while the residents take pride in the temple nestled under a rocky hillock. The significance of the temple is such that the households never let any relative or a visitor leave the town without a darshan at the temple. “In the entire world, this is the only temple with idols of Rama, Lakshmana, Bharata, Shatrugna and Sita Devi present together in the sanctum sanctorum,” is the proud and joyous utterance from anyone here. The temple, now under the administration of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), was a witness to the royal visits of Chhatrapati Sivaji, Tippu Sultan, Krishna Devaraya and several Vijayanagara kings, apart from saint poet Tallapaka Annamacharya, and many British officers. The temple has its glory mentioned in the sankeerthanas of Annamacharya.  Former sarpanch (Valmikipuram) K. Rajendrachari told The Hindu that every year the TTD would earmark Rs. 30 lakh for the Sri Rama Navami Brahmotsavams here. “Next year, the festival would see grandeur 10 times more,” he said. The deserted atmosphere in the temple town is something that the people could not digest here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-vow-grand-fete-next-year/article31243332.ece
03 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur will see RATs in action from today||A spike in the number of novel coronavirus positive cases late on Wedneday night had prompted the district administration to declare a high alert across the district. Guntur district now tops the State with 20 positive cases, up by 11, in a single day. Three hundred and two samples were sent for testing. The number of persons hailing from the district who have returned from the Delhi meeting has now been put at 200. The district administration has also identified 76 persons who have direct contact with the returnees. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, who conducted a meeting, announced several new measures, including setting up of rapid action teams (RATs) from Friday . Each team would have a specialised doctor in social and preventive medicine , DMHO and specialists in anaesthesia and general medicine to deal with the emerging situation. Beds for quarantine Mr. Ananda Kumar said arrangements were being made to provide 5,000 beds for quarantine. The Collector said orders had been placed for one lakh masks and sanitisers, adding supply of essential commodities would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-will-see-rats-in-action-from-today/article31242825.ece
03 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing facilities inadequate: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy to take steps for enhancing coronavirus testing capabilities in order to contain the fast-spreading infection in the State. In a letter to Mr. Jagan, Mr. Naidu drew the former’s attention to the sudden spurt in positive cases in the State and this was mainly due to poor testing with just four labs in Andhra Pradesh as against 23 in Maharashtra, 17 in Tamil Nadu, 15 in Telangana, 15 in Delhi and 12 in Kerala. Stating that COVID-19 is a dangerously contagious and fatal infection, Mr. Naidu urged the CM to study steps being taken in other countries and States for their replication in AP so that grave danger could be avoided to the lives of people in the coming weeks. Identification and segregation of infected persons is very crucial to prevent the spread of the virus, he added. Mr. Naidu asked the government not to suppress the facts with regard to COVID-19 cases as such a step would prove counter-productive. Lakhs of farm hands, unorganised sector workers, toddy tappers, fishermen, artisans and SCs/STs were literally starving as they were not finding work due to the lockdown. The Central government had announced a Rs. 1.75-lakh- crore package and had asked the States to take up one-time distribution of three months ration and three months pensions to poor people.  ‘Reopen Anna canteens’ Pointing out that Telangana opened GHMC Annapurna Canteens in Hyderabad, Mr. Naidu demanded re-opening of Anna canteens in the State in order to provide nutritious food to poor workers. He termed the government’s decision to cut salaries of employees or defer them unwarranted. Demotivating employees in these difficult times was not advisable. It was unfortunate that ration shops were witnessing huge rush even in areas which are declared red zones. Personal protective equipment (PPEs) should be provided to doctors, health workers, police, sanitation workers, media persons and those distributing ration, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-facilities-inadequate-naidu/article31243350.ece
03 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers at spinning mills staring at a bleak future||Over 50,000 migrant daily workers from Tamil Nadu, Odisha and other States are staring at a bleak future, with 120 spinning mills in the district shutting down since March 25 in the wake of an ongoing nationwide lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of COVID-19. The lockdown comes on the back of an unprecedented crisis that has gripped textile mills as they have declared production holidays owing to a hike in minimum support price and the U.S.-China trade war which has affected exports to China. Now, with exports to China coming to a complete halt due to COVID-19, the spinning industry has gone into a tailspin. “China has been a major importer of cotton for several years, and the ban on exports has hit the industry hard. The domestic demand has also slackened due to stiff competition. Moreover, the cost of production is also going up,” said chairman of A.P. Spinning Mills Association, Lanka Raghurami Reddy. Even the prices of candy have gone up by 25% with each candy fetching Rs. 43,000. The delay in release of power subsidies to the tune of Rs. 1,200 crore has come as the final nail in the coffin, forcing millers to shut down the mills. The industry has also been hit due to delay in payments from the U.S. and Europe, and many spinning mill managements are not in a position to repay loan instalments and loan interest amounts. The spinning mill associations have urged Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy to release outstanding subsidies which were not paid by the previous government for the last four years, and have also sought deferment of payment of power bills to discoms for 3 months without interest and suspend the rule of payment for minimum consumption units and minimum MD charges. Further, Mr. Raghurami Reddy has requested the State Government to recommend to the Union government a waiver of interest payment on all loans of textile units, including CC limits, for six months, and a moratorium of two years for the existing term loans. Cotton yarn from A.P. is known for its superior quality, and every day, four million kg of yarn is produced. Indian Cotton, known for its fine texture, used to be exported to China but with the ongoing U.S.-China trade war continuing, the exports have almost come to a standstill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workers-at-spinning-mills-staring-at-a-bleak-future/article31242837.ece
03 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘ends life’ due to police ‘harassment’||A 21-year-old man, identified as Pedada Srinivasa Rao, was found dead under suspicious circumstances at Bapatla on Thursday. Locals found the body hanging to a railing at the new bus station complex. Srinivasa Rao, who was working in a textile company at Nagari, set out to Krishna district on March 31 after the company suspended its operations. As he reached the Vedullapalli check-post on April 1, police stopped him and took him into custody. Sources said the man was kept in police custody was released a day later. He was sent by a container, but the driver asked him to get down. Director-General of Police, Gautam Sawang, who took a serious note of the incident, ordered an inquiry. Accordingly, Additional SP Chakravarthy reached Bapatla and immediately got down to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-ends-life-due-to-police-harassment/article31242826.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||463 people who attended Tablighi Jamaat event traced||A large number of the untraceable persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin Markaz, Delhi, are said to be from outside the country. Several of them are from countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia. According to information from sources, a total of 63 from the total 140 missing persons were foreigners, arriving in India to participate in the religious event. Their details as registered at the Jamaat register have been shared with all States’ authorities, in order to trace them. Highly-placed officials say that as per the mandatory details registered at the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) after landing here, their itinerary did not include Hyderabad. “They could have been already traced in other States. But based on the details furnished with the FRRO, we can say that they have not come here,” says an official. Nevertheless, it can not be said with certainty that they have not come here, as violations of visa regulations are dime a dozen. Visas of about 4,600 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat events during the past four to five years have been subsequently blocked, as they were found to be violating the visa regulations, by visiting places other than those mentioned at the form submitted to the FRRO. It was found that about 10 persons from the remaining 77, who had booked tickets to Delhi, could not board the train due to various reasons, and others who did go, were found to have left for other districts and States. Authorities concerned of the respective States have been alerted about the same, officials say. “Only names and contact numbers of the persons concerned were available from the Jamaat registers, through which we tried to contact them. They were found to have left for other States and districts,” an official informed. On March 31, it was informed that a total of 603 persons who had attended the religious event at Delhi were from the city. Teams constituted to locate them, with members from the police, GHMC, Revenue and Medical and Health departments, could trace a total of 463 persons from various localities in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/463-people-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-traced/article31243139.ece
03 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP blames Deputy CM for spurt in cases in Kadapa dt.||The BJP has blamed Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha for the spread of COVID-19 in the district, especially the spurt of 15 cases in a single day. Addressing the media here on Thursday, party official spokesperson Bandi Prabhakar accused Mr. Basha of hiding his close relative’s COVID-19 positive status and getting him treated in a private hospital. “When the Deputy Chief Minister himself is not disclosing sensitive information, what right does the government have to ask the jamaat returnees to divulge their travel history?” he asked. Delhi visit Mr. Prabhakar also asked Mr. Basha to disclose the details of his Delhi visit early this month. It was only on Wednesday that Mr. Basha slapped a case against a vernacular daily allegedly for linking his Delhi visit to the Tablighi Jamaat. Mr. Basha later told the media that it was an official visit on March 2 and 3 at the behest of Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. Mr. Prabhakar also wondered how the State-owned Noorjahan Function Hall could “unofficially be let out to strangers.” “Though it is not time for petty politics, Mr. Basha, being Deputy CM, should be more responsible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-blames-deputy-cm-for-spurt-in-cases-in-kadapa-dt/article31243352.ece
03 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavams at Vontimitta a low-key afffair||The Brahmotsavams at the Sri Kodandaramalayam in Vontimitta were observed in a simple manner due to the prevailing lockdown. The festival at the temple affiliated to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is usually a grand affair, but the COVID-19 outbreak ensured that the celebrations remained a low-key affair, bereft of the usual crowds. ‘Dhwajarohanam’, the flag-hoisting ceremony that signals the beginning of the festival, was conducted by the priests as per the tenets of ‘Pancharatra’ Agama. Rajampet MLA and TTD board member Meda Mallikarjuna Reddy offered silk clothes to the temple on behalf of the State Government. As the temple remained closed for the public ever since the lockdown began, all the processions will be conducted in private and inside the temple complex, Deputy Executive Officer Lokanatham said. Live proceedings The TTD has announced that it will conduct Sita Rama Kalyanam, which is a State Government event, in a simple function on April 7. Devotees can watch the proceedings live on the Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavams-at-vontimitta-a-low-key-afffair/article31243344.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays Kerala govt. order on supply of liquor||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday stayed for three weeks a government order allowing sale of liquor to those suffering from withdrawal symptoms on the basis of a government doctor’s prescription. The Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly issued the stay order while admitting writ petitions filed by G.S. Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA), and Congress leader T.N. Prathapan, MP, challenging the order. When the petitioners came up for hearing, counsel for the petitioners contended that the order was unethical and doctors could not be forced to prescribe alcohol for treating alcoholism. State Attorney K.V. Sohan submitted that in States where liquor was banned similar orders had been issued. In fact, allowing those suffering from withdrawal symptoms to take liquor on a moderate scale was part of the de-addiction treatment protocol. During the hearing, the court orally observed that the order was a recipe for disaster. The government order was silent on the medical diagnosis which the doctor should make before permitting a patient to take alcohol, the court noted. The petitioners pointed out that the government order required government doctors to certify that a patient was having withdrawal symptom to enable him to obtain a pass for buying liquor from excise authorities. The government had issued the order in the wake of closure of beverages outlets and bar counters following the present lockdown. They said that it was a fact that a liquor addict might suffer from Alcohol Dependence Syndrome (ADS), commonly called withdrawal symptoms, due to non-availability of liquor. The prescription for liquor for such a person by a doctor went against the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2002. Besides, it was against the guidelines issued by the Health Services Director for treatment of ADS-affected persons.  ‘Govt. lost face’ Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the government had lost face with the court striking down its "dubious" move to allow the sale of legal liquor to citizens who procured medical testimonials from doctors in State service. The HC had rebuffed the government's "bullheaded belief" that addicts required more liquor and not modernday de-addiction therapy to cushion withdrawal trauma and stave off suicidal tendency.  The government order on supplying liquor based on doctor’s prescription is a recipe for disaster. Division Bench Kerala High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-kerala-govt-order-on-supply-of-liquor/article31242757.ece
03 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore reports 17 new cases, Prakasam two||Officials swung into action to prevent a further spread of COVID-19 as 19 more persons, who had returned from a Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi, tested positive for the pandemic in Nellore and Prakasam districts on Thursday. SPSR Nellore district recorded 17 new cases on Thursday, taking the total number of infected persons to 20. The first patient, who had returned from Italy, was discharged following a full recovery. Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav and Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy oversaw the implementation of the cluster containment action plan in Janta Veedhi, Kotamitta and other areas in 43rd and 47th divisions in Nellore city which accounted for 10 new cases. Results of over 250 suspected cases are still awaited. All those who returned from Nizamuddin, and their family members, have been identified and quarantined. Hundreds of civic staff sanitised the colonies in the two divisions which were declared red zones. Police sealed the entry and exit points in the two divisions to prevent any movement of persons to and from the colonies in the containment zones. Essential commodities were given to the people at their doorsteps. Cluster containment strategy was also implemented in Kavali and Naidupeta towns in the wake of detection of two and three new cases respectively. In Prakasam district, two more persons, one each from Perlamanyam and Kondamitta, tested positive taking the number of persons under treatment for the viral disease to 17. A containment action plan was implemented in Ongole city including the Court Centre and Pernamitta as well as in Chirala and Chimakurthy towns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-reports-17-new-cases-prakasam-two/article31243335.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka moves SC against HC order to lift border curbs||Karnataka on Thursday challenged in the Supreme Court a Kerala High Court order on April 1 to remove the road blockade at the inter-State border to facilitate flow of vehicles carrying essential items and patients in the midst of the COVID-19 outbreak. The special leave petition filed by Karnataka, represented by advocate Shubhranshu Padhi, said the border had been sealed to “combat the spread of the pandemic by preventing the movement of people from the bordering districts of Kerala to Karnataka.” The situation regarding coronavirus is “really dire,” Karnataka said. Opening the blockade now would cause a law and order issue within Karnataka as the local population wants the border sealed. The petition, seeking the immediate stay of the HC order, said Kerala is the “worst affected” State in the country with coronavirus cases. In this, Kasaragod, adjoining Karnataka, is the “worst -affected” district of Kerala with over a 100 positive cases. “It is of grave importance that the affected districts be sealed and the pandemic be stopped from spreading to newer areas...,” the petition said. This appeal has been filed even as the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on April 3 a writ petition filed by Kasaragod MP Rajmohan Unnithan for an order to open the State border. Mr. Unnithan said Karnataka’s blockade is “ill-planned and dangerous” and has already led to the loss of lives. Two patients from Kerala, in need of urgent medical care, died after their ambulances were denied entry at the border by the Karnataka authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-moves-sc-against-hc-order-to-lift-border-curbs/article31242774.ece
03 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 casts shadow on Ram Navami festival||Sri Rama Navami was celebrated sans any social gathering across Prakasam district on Thursday in view of the lockdown in force to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. The usual cacophony associated with the celebrations in every street corner was absent as more persons tested positive for the dreaded virus. Devotees celebrated the festival on a modest note remaining indoors. Without fanfare the celebrations were organised in the 102-year-old temple at Ramagiri, the historic Ranganayaka temple at Chadalawada close to the Gundalakamma river and at other temples. Special prayers were organised seeking divine blessings to stave off COVID-19 pandemic. Tranquility prevailed at the Rama temple at the police parade grounds constructed at the behest of A.K. Khan when he was the Superintendent of Police. Men in uniform used the occasion to distribute food packets to orphans, doing away with the usual community lunch and distribution of ‘Vada Pappu’ and ‘Panakam’ as prasadam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-ram-navami-festival/article31243333.ece
03 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR on track to treat coronavirus cases in State||Officials of the South Central Railway (SCR), Vijayawada division, will convert 32 sleeper and general coaches into COVID isolation wards. The first coach was prepared at the coaching depot at the station on Thursday. “Following the directions of the Centre, the Railways is converting sleeper coaches into isolation wards across all the zones in the country. In Vijayawada division, we are converting 32 coaches,” said Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. COVID isolation wards will be kept at the platforms, and the converted coaches will have round-the-clock power and water supply, the DRM told The Hindu . Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer K. Srinivas Rao, who is monitoring the operation, said each coach would have nine beds (berths), including one cabin for paramedical staff, space for arranging two oxygen cylinders and other emergency services.  Fully loaded “We are providing sanitisers, soaps, plastic curtains, mosquito nets, biodegradable garbage bins, LED lights, medical equipment at the beds and facilities for using laptops,” Mr. Srinivas said. Coaching depot officer G. Uday Bhaskar said the converted coaches would be arranged Kakinada, Machilipatnam and Narsapuram railway stations. “Middle berths will be removed in each cabin and the side and upper berths can be used by nurses and paramedical staff. Each coach will have four toilets, including one bathroom,” Mr. Uday Bhaskar said. As per medical advice, one patient will be admitted in each cabin and the coaches have been modified accordingly. The coaches are being converted as per the directions of the Railway Board. Instructions have been given to the coaching depot staff to complete the operation as soon as possible as the cases were increasing by the day, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-on-track-to-treat-coronavirus-cases-in-state/article31243363.ece
03 April 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. issues isolation guidelines||The government on Thursday issued guidelines for home isolation through G.O. Rt. No. 226 to be followed by all foreign returnees or his/her contacts or persons showing COVID-19 symptoms. It stated that home isolation is applicable to all foreign returnees or their contacts or persons with symptoms like fever, dry cough, sore throat and/or breathlessness. Foreign returnees have been defined as persons coming from outside India on or after February 10, 2020 or any COVID-19-affected areas where local and community transmission is evident or persons coming from focal clusters arising from travel related/unrelated cases where cluster containment strategy is adopted. A contact is defined as a healthy person who has been in such association with an infected person or a contaminated environment as to have exposed and is therefore at a higher risk of developing the disease, persons living in the same household where a COVID-19 positive person is living, persons who had direct physical contact with COVID-19 positive persons, persons having direct physical contact with a COVID-19 positive person’s infectious secretions without recommended personal protective equipment (PPE) or persons with possible breach of PPE and persons who are in a closed environment or have had face to face contact with COVID-19 positive persons at a distance of less than one metre, including in air travel, train, bus or other forms of travel. The epidemiological link might have occurred within a 14 day period before the onset of illness in the cases under consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-issues-isolation-guidelines/article31242835.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala govt. firm on ‘salary challenge’ for its employees||Curbs on salary will become imperative if government employees refuse to cooperate with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s call for a Salary Challenge, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Dr. Isaac told reporters here on Thursday that disbursal of the salary for March had commenced as scheduled, but things may go awry in April if employees stonewalled the call for the Salary Challenge. Priority is being accorded to distributing the salary of health workers. Arrears due for various sections will be cleared as planned, but employees should compulsorily cooperate with the Salary Challenge. A contribution at their will would not suffice, he said and clarified that his observation was based on previous experiences. Unlike Maharashtra and Telangana, which are revenue surplus States, Kerala has not imposed any cut in salary. But in the current situation when the State’s revenue collection has dwindled, it will have to impose curbs if employees do not voluntarily contribute a month’s salary.  On modalities As done earlier during floods, the employees could donate the salary in one tranche or could split it into 12 instalments, he said. All prime revenue sources, including the sale of lottery tickets, motor vehicle tax, excise duty, stamp duty, have dried up. Since a grace period has been accorded for remitting various taxes, the government would not earn any revenue in April. The sale of food products does not yield any returns as they do not figure in the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax. Never before had the State faced such a grave crisis. Moreover, the government would have to support labourers in traditional industries sector and many others who have been deprived of their livelihood and income following the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-govt-firm-on-salary-challenge-for-its-employees/article31242765.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest department comes to the rescue of tribals||At a time when local economies have been reeling under the lockdown necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, tribal communities residing in forests and on its fringes in Thiruvananthapuram are a relieved lot. Embarking on a market intervention initiative to cushion the impact of the slowdown, the Forest Department has begun to procure forest produce collected by the tribespeople of the Agasthyavanam Biological Park (ABP) and the Neyyar and Peppara forest ranges to be sold to commercial establishments and various collectives. A centralised collection centre has been operationalised at Kottoor to segregate the produce prior to being transported to various places. The endeavour has come as a blessing to several families that stared at an uncertain future following the suspension of village markets, particularly at Kottoor, which functioned as a local commercial hub in the region. Above market rates The ambitious project, Vanika, formally launched by Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar a day ago, is being undertaken by procuring perishables above the prevailing market rates. The produce on offer during the initial days included various plantain varieties such as nendran, rasakadali and chenkadali (kappa pazham in local parlance), tapioca, long beans, wild honey, wild turmeric, areca nut, Malabar tamarind (kudampuli), cashew nut and coconut. The produce are being marketed through a WhatsApp group that includes entrepreneurs, social activists as well as techies’ collectives who can place bulk orders online. Scheme may be extended Buoyed by the initial response, the department is toying with the idea of extending the scheme to other tribal regions in the State. “While we have envisaged the scheme as one for the lockdown period, the outcome could pave way for a long-term arrangement with an institutional mechanism,” Mr. Surendrakumar said. Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani said forest officers have been entrusted with collecting the produce, even from far-flung areas on jeeps and boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-department-comes-to-the-rescue-of-tribals/article31242768.ece
03 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress flays move||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran has taken exception to Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac’s announcement to impose curbs on the salary of government employees. Mr. Ramachandran said in a statement here on Thursday that financial indiscipline and splurge were the prime cause for the crisis for which Dr. Isaac and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should be blamed. The decision to collect a month’s salary from employees facing serious hardships was unjustified and should be dropped, Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-flays-move/article31242766.ece
03 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala seeks urgent import of testing kits||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday sought the help of the Centre to rush COVID-19 rapid testing kits from Hong Kong to Kerala. During the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other State Chief Ministers, Mr. Vijayan said he had asked the Centre to ensure free movement of freight across States. He made an appeal for the country to stand united in the face of adversity and urged everyone to rise above partisan politics and parochial interests. Mr. Vijayan drew the attention of the Centre to the situation of lakhs of Keralites in West Asia. A significant number lived in camp-like conditions there. The Indian embassies in the Gulf should secure space to quarantine and treat them if necessary. In response, Mr. Modi told the CM that he had conveyed the requirement to Indian embassies and also broached the matter with the regional heads of states. Mr. Vijayan also urged the Centre to ensure the welfare of the large number of Malayali nurses abroad. The Centre should operate special trains for migrant workers in Kerala who wished to go to their home States after the lockdown ended. The State needed more funds to open COVID-19 hospitals and the Centre should raise its debt ceiling from 3% to 5%. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Modi was appreciative of the steps taken by Kerala. The Centre had allotted Rs. 157 crore as disaster relief for the State. The Prime Minister asked States to enlist NCC and NSS cadets to assist the administration. He also called for online pooling of resources, including trucks, to harvest and move agricultural produce to processing centres, warehouses and markets. CM seeks Rs. 3,000 cr. to procure equipment Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allocate Rs. 3,000 crore for procuring personal protective equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and ventilators for managing the COVID-19 crisis. During his video conference with the Prime Minister, Mr. Palaniswami sought an increase in the supply of test kits to the State. An official release said Mr. Palaniswami reiterated his demand seeking allocation of Rs. 9,000 crore and to raise the fiscal deficit limits of 3% of GSDP for 2019-20 and 2020-21 as a one-time measure. “To meet the additional expenditure arising due to this pandemic, additional borrowing of 33% above the permitted level for 2019-20, may be allowed for 2020-21,” he reiterated. Mr. Palaniswami requested to release in advance the grants due to States in 2020-21 and to release 50% of the Finance Commission grants to urban and rural local bodies besides 50% of the revenue deficit grant. The GST compensation amount due for December-January 2019-20 and grants under the National Health Mission could be released immediately. “The ways and means limit of the States, which was increased by 30% by the RBI should be doubled. The ways and means advances availed during 2020-21 should be made interest-free,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Elaborating on the status of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, he said the State Disaster Management Authority had conducted 11 meetings and that he had issued various directions and was addressing the situation on a daily basis. The inter-State transport had been stopped, except for movement of goods, the availability of essential commodities for people during this lockdown period had been ensured and about 2.10 lakh international passengers had been screened and 77,330 of them are under home quarantine for 28 days. Micro plan “A detailed micro plan for each district has been drawn to meet the health care needs of the elderly people, antenatal and post-natal care for mothers and infants, patients on chronic treatment like TB, HIV, hypertension and diabetes, and patients needing dialysis were being met by mobile health teams in the districts,” he said. The Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar in Chennai and Coimbatore ESI Medical College Hospital had been declared as dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, the Chief Minister pointed out and said: “Apart from this, one hospital in each district has been identified and provided with treatment facilities for COVID-19.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-seeks-urgent-import-of-testing-kits/article31242764.ece
03 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramanavami rituals performed inside Tirumala temple||Special rituals were performed for Sri Ramanavami inside the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Thursday. After the completion of the daily rituals, all of which were performed in ‘ekantham’, the priests ceremoniously carried out ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ to the idols of Lord Rama, Lakshmana, Sita and Hanuman at Ranganayakula mandapam. The idols were given a celestial bath with milk, curd, honey, coconut water, turmeric and sandalwood paste amid chanting of verses from Taittiriya Upanishad, Pancha Sukthas and Divya Prabandham by a battery of Vedic scholars. ‘Asthanam’ The celebrations culminated with the priests conducting ‘Asthanam’ (court) at the Nadimi Bangaru Vakili inside the sanctum sanctorum. The procession of Hanumantha Vahanam around the thoroughfares of the hill town, which otherwise used to be a regular event on the Navami festival, was dispensed with amid the COVID-19 scare. The senior and junior Jeeyars, Executive Officer Anilkumar Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy and Deputy EO (temple) Harindranath were among those who took part in the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramanavami-rituals-performed-inside-tirumala-temple/article31242760.ece
03 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complaint against ‘fake FB’ account||Tirumala temple priest A.V. Ramana Dikshitulu has lodged a complaint with the police against a “fake Facebook account” created in his name. In his complaint on Wednesday, he alleged that those involved were not only trying to benefit by using his name but also spreading canards against the TTD, hurting the sentiments of devout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complaint-against-fake-fb-account/article31242759.ece
03 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple town records first positive case||Following confirmation of the first COVID-19 positive case in Tirupati, the busy Thyagaraja Nagar area in the heart of the city was totally cordoned off and marked as ‘red zone’ on Thursday. Mass sanitisation was taken up in the area having around 10,000 households. All the roads leading to the locality were barricaded and people from neither side were allowed to move in or out. Residential colonies covered between Bhavani Nagar, Gali Street, Manchala Street, Theertha Katta Street and Patnool Street were quickly brought under the control of the police department. The cordoned area falls under the 36th division and is reckoned as the eighth sanitary ward of Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT). The case in question is a person who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Along with him, his parents were also shifted to quarantine. MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha told the media that apart from the 36th division, the area extending to 1 km-radius around the affected zone, viz., 32, 35, 37 and 38 wards would also remain sealed and the residents would be confined to their homes. Ward volunteers would be roped in to help the residents of these colonies, he added. He appealed to people who had returned from the Jamaat to voluntarily disclose their travel history and submit themselves for testing. Sanitary staff, who rushed to the region for door-to-door sanitisation, sprinkled bleaching powder on the roadside and sprayed sodium hypochlorite solution all over. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy appealed to the public to stay indoors, explaining the consequences of going out. “There is no need to fear and your lives can be saved only by letting us know,” he said, assuring people that they would not be stigmatised. Fear grips city The city started panicking on Wednesday with unconfirmed reports putting the number of persons from the city that had visited the Tablighi Jamaat at 16. Officially, two visitors underwent tests, which came back positive. With many other suspects going into hiding following fear of being targeted, officials are having a tough time zeroing in on the victims, who could even turn vectors if not detected on time. People finding any such suspicious cases in their vicinity can call the MCT’s helpline 0877-2256766.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-town-records-first-positive-case/article31243343.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||It's the worst-ever crisis, say hoteliers||When the first case of COVID-19 in the country was reported from Kerala on January 30, little did people anticipate that the virus will turn their world topsy-turvy in the next couple of months. The rapid spread of the virus necessitated a complete lockdown hitting hard, among other sectors, hotels and restaurants that mainly thrive on people’s movement from one place to the other. Their business nosedived owing to poor footfalls between February and March and the official lockdown announced by the government resulted in a complete lull. The hotel industry reeled under the impact of economic slowdown and hoteliers in city hoped for a revival during the tourism season, but COVID-19 has dashed their hopes to the ground. “Of the total 108 rooms in our hotel, only five are occupied. The guests are stranded here in view of the lockdown and we can’t ask them to vacate the rooms in this difficult situation,” says S.V. Ramana Murthy, Food and Beverages Manager of Hotel Taj Gateway. The hotel has closed its bars and restaurants for want of customers. Former president of the Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association Ilapuram Raja calls the ‘lockdown’ period “the worst-ever crisis for the hotel industry. We established this (Ilapuram) hotel in 1991 but never before we witnessed such business gloom. Paying bills is mandatory and this period of uncertainty is hurting,” he says ruefully. Even in this hour of crisis, die-hard optimists decided to see the boons of the lockdown period. The necessity of doing a lot of home cooking was fun for many at first, but the fun element has already started wearing off, reminding them how much they took chefs and restaurants for granted. Small eateries see bankruptcy looming around. Many restaurants may not survive this shutdown because their profit margins were already paper thin and they have minimum cash resources. “The takeaway ‘relief’ does not work for small hotels. My workers keep calling me every day to know if the hotel is being opened,” says Krishna Murthy, who runs Hotel Srinu, a furlong away from Samarang Chowk in One Town area. Matamala Ramu, manager of Temptations, a restaurant on Tikkle Road, says the place is shuttered since March 22 but he has workers from Odisha and West Bengal to take care of since the lockdown prevented them from going home.  'Unprecedented'  Ravi Kumar Parvataneni, managing partner of Hotel Aira near Benz Circle and president of Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association, talks of the difficulties like payment of power tariffs, GST, term loans and working loans in the face of the lockdown. “This is so unforeseen and unprecedented. The worst part is the uncertainty as nobody is sure that the lockdown will actually end on April 14,” he says. For the more than 200 members of the association in city, the ‘lockdown’ has spelt economic disaster. “We are all waiting for the crisis to blow over,” says Mr. Ravi Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-the-worst-ever-crisis-say-hoteliers/article31242831.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protective gear: Mekapati asks DICs to get the job done||Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy instructed the General Managers of District Industries Centres (DICs) to coordinate and follow-up with the apparel and other manufacturing units in their districts to get the required personal protection equipment (PPE) made. He ordered that the GMs tie up with the textile industries in their districts, especially in Krishna, Guntur, Chittoor and Anantapur, for manufacturing disposable bedsheets immediately. At a videoconference with the GMs and zonal managers of A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation on Thursday, Mr. Reddy took stock of the functioning of essential commodities’ manufacturing industries and the supply of groceries, transport issues, worker permits, etc. He directed the GMs to resolve the labour/workers’ problems. He advised Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) Rajat Bhargava to coordinate with the R&B Department for ensuring serving of hygienic food to truck drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protective-gear-mekapati-asks-dics-to-get-the-job-done/article31243354.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD loan to State touches an all-time high||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) extended loans of Rs. 27,992 crore to Andhra Pradesh during 2019-20, according to NABARD Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj. In a statement on Thursday, the CGM said that loans disbursed by NABARD Andhra Pradesh Regional Office reached an all-time high of Rs. 27,992 crore, up from Rs. 19,801 crore the previous year – a growth of 41%. The total refinance extended to banks in the State for supporting short-term crop loans and long-term agriculture financing during the year touched Rs. 20,515 crore and registered a growth of 29% over last year. In line with NABARD’s mandate of strengthening rural financial institutions, major portion of refinance was given to Rural Cooperative Banks, followed by Regional Rural Banks and commercial banks. A sum of Rs. 1,385 crore was also released directly to the District Central Cooperative Banks for meeting short-term credit requirement under a multi-purpose credit limit, he said. Aid for ongoing projects Under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF), the NABARD sanctioned projects of Rs. 1,199 crore and released Rs. 1,200 crore during the year to Government of Andhra Pradesh for completion of ongoing projects. To supplement efforts of 'per drop more crop' component of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana, NABARD sanctioned Rs. 616 crore under Micro Irrigation Fund, he said. The NABARD released Rs. 31.27 crore to Sangam Dairy for dairy processing in Guntur district; Rs. 9.72 crore was sanctioned to M/s Gama Biotech Farms Pvt. Ltd., Krishna district, for setting up food processing units and Rs. 11.40 crore was released to Andhra Pradesh State Warehousing Corporation for construction of three warehouses, he said. The NABARD sanctioned Rs. 1,931-crore loan for completion of the Chintalapudi LI project including drinking water supply in West Godavari and Krishna districts and Rs. 819 crore released to AP Water Resources Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nabard-loan-to-state-touches-an-all-time-high/article31243355.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. orders CRDA to initiate land allotment for house sites||The Andhra Pradesh government has ordered the AP-Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) to undertake the process of allotment of lands in the capital city area as requested by the Collectors of Krishna and Guntur districts in compliance with the directions of the High Court (HC) for giving house sites to the poor under ‘Navaratnalu-Pedalandariki Illu’ programme. The CRDA has been permitted to make necessary changes in the master plan for achieving the objective of giving house sites to the economically weaker sections. It was stated in G.O. MS No. 131 issued by Secretary (Municipal Administration) J. Syamala Rao on Thursday that the government had issued guidelines for the above programme through G.O. MS No. 367 read with GO MS No. 488, both in the year 2019, and the Collectors of Krishna and Guntur districts took the shortage of government lands to the notice of the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration and subsequently requested the Commissioner of CRDA for the allotment of nearly 1,252 acres in Nowluru, Krishnayapalem, Nidamarru, Inavolu, Kuragallu and Mandadam villages. The matter was conveyed to the beneficiaries belonging to Vijayawada, Tadepalli, Mangalagiri, Duggirala and Pedakakani. Through G.O No. 131, the government ordered the CRDA to take preparatory steps as per the directions of the HC – which found that the process of allotment of lands contemplated under the CRDA Act was not followed – and the orders of the Supreme Court in the special leave petition being filed as a consequence of the HC suspending the operation of the GOs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-orders-crda-to-initiate-land-allotment-for-house-sites/article31242827.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister seeks MEA aid for Telugu students in U.K.||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Thursday said the government was trying to ensure safety of Telugu students stranded in the United Kingdom. In a statement, he said after he received e-mails and SMSes from the students saying that they were facing problems due to the lockdown, he had apprised the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of the matter and had also spoken to the Union Minister for External Affairs Subramanyam Jaishankar and the High Commissioner of India to the United Kingdom Ruchi Ghanshyam. Informing them about the students’ condition there, the Minister had requested them to ensure the students’ safety and well-being in the UK until the lockdown continued and make arrangements for their safe return to their homes after that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-seeks-mea-aid-for-telugu-students-in-uk/article31242829.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua processing units told to buy produce from ryots||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz warned that aqua processing units that do not buy produce from aqua farmers at the minimum support price will be taken over by the government. Addressing a review meeting with representatives of aqua processing units and Fisheries Department officials here on Thursday, Mr. Imtiaz said .of the seven processing units in the district only four were functional due to shortage of staff and the sale of shrimp had become a Herculean task for farmers owing to the lockdown. He said that Minister for Fisheries Mopidevi Venkataramana had been from time to time reviewing the situation of aqua farmers and units in the State and had asked the district administrations to take over the processing units to rescue farmers from the current situation if needed. Mr. Imtiaz said the government would ensure that workers attended work at the processing units and committees by revenue divisional officers, fisheries officers had been formed to extend necessary support to the units. Growell Processors Pvt. Ltd vice-president Ch. Sudheer, Akshaya Food Ltd representative M. Raghu and others said they were ready to purchase the produce from farmers and sought government support in continuing their operations. Fisheries Department Joint Director Sk. Mohammad, MPEDA Assistant Director P. Brahmeswara Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aqua-processing-units-told-to-buy-produce-from-ryots/article31242834.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government urged to ensure well-being of working class||Members of the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the United Forum for RTI Campaign have urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to initiate special measures for safety and welfare of the workers in the unorganised sector. In a letter addressed to Mr. Jagan, they said distribution of soaps, along with other grocery items through Public Distribution System, availability of cooked meals, at least once daily, advance payment of social security pensions for May and June, payment of pending wages to the tune of Rs. 456 crore under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and payment of full wages to the registered MGNREGA workers in the lockdown period would go a long way in helping them deal with the current crisis. They said steps such as door delivery of social security pensions, awareness on COVID-19 through village volunteers and distribution of PDS to the poor deserved wide appreciation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-urged-to-ensure-well-being-of-working-class/article31242832.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donations pour in for CMRF||Aurobindo Pharma Foundation has donated Rs. 7.50 crore to CM Relief Fund (CMRF) and another Rs. 3.50 crore for essential supplies towards it’s contribution to COVID-19 containment measures. Its director Sarat Chandra Reddy presented a cheque to CM Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office near here on Thursday. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy was present. Kia Motors MD Kookhyun Shim presented a cheque for Rs. 2 crore to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office. Bharati Cements donated Rs. 5,14,50,000 to the CMRF. Company director (finance) Balaji gave a cheque to the CM in the presence of Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy. Sri City donated a sum of Rs. 2 crore to the CMRF to help the government fight against the pandemic. Its founder-MD Ravindra Sannareddy handed over the cheque to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday. Actor’s gesture Staff Reporter in Visakhapatnam writes: Actor Nikhil donated Rs. 2 lakh worth Personal Protection Equipment to the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donations-pour-in-for-cmrf/article31243357.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff shortage hits nurses hard at government chest hospital||Nurses working at the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) feel overburdened due to alleged lack of adequate staff and rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. The staff also allege that they are not allowed to take even sick leaves. The recent incident of six nurses who treated COVID-19 patients falling sick has brought to light how the nurses are being made to work overtime. According to the staff, there are five permanent nurses and 22 nurses working on contract basis at GHCCD. All the 27 nurses work in three shifts round the clock. Recently, six of them fell ill. As a precautionary measure, their samples were sent for testing and fortunately all have been tested negative and the doctors advised them to take sick leave for 14 days and be under home quarantine. “Out of the total 27, six are availing leave now. Right now, 22 nurses are working in three shifts. Since the past three weeks, we have not taken leave and worked even though we have health issues,” alleged a nurse working at the hospital on condition of anonymity. The nurses also say that the number of cases admitted in the GHCCD has been rapidly increasing and the officials should allot more nurses, so that the pressure on them could be minimised. ‘No weekly off’ “On March 30 afternoon, the total number of admissions were 62. Every day, we are attending to duties and do not have a break once in a week. The officials concerned should at least allot 15 more nurses, so that we could heave a sigh of relief,” said a nurse from the GHCCD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staff-shortage-hits-nurses-hard-at-government-chest-hospital/article31243380.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Playing Samaritan in the time of crisis||At a time the entire administration is on it toes to check the COVID-19 pandemic, people from various walks of life have come forward to help out their fellow denizens in the time of crisis. Many have come forward to cook food and distribute among the poor and the homeless in the city. A group of youngsters from Arilova, which runs Sri Sai Santosh Catering, have temporarily stopped their business, but their kitchen is running. Every day, they cook meals for around 200 people and go around the city to distribute it among the poor and to the policemen on duty. “Some times, we serve only sambar-rice and curd. At other times, we serve a full meal with rice, sambar and a curry,” says Sreenivas, a member of the group. Shyam Sundar Prajapati is also playing a good Samaritan. He has roped in his friends to feed the poor. Service to stranded “Our target is to serve at least one square meal a day to around 1,000 people. Food is prepared by women at our homes and we distribute it among footpath dwellers and those stranded at bus and railway stations, and in slums of Kancharapalem,” says Mr. Shyam. Last Monday, they served food to 200 odd people and on Tuesday, the count went up to 350. Not just in groups, many have taken it upon themselves to distribute food and other essential commodities such as medicines, water bottles and etc among the needy. Gurdwara comes forward Gurdwara Sadh Sangat, Seethamadhara, has been entrusted with the responsibility of providing food to 500 persons for the next few weeks. Gurdawara Sadh Sangat was requested by the district authorities to provide food for 500 people from March 31. The food is being prepared at the Seethamadhara Gurdawara and being picked up by government vehicles for distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/playing-samaritan-in-the-time-of-crisis/article31243382.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illicit arrack business brewing as liquor shops remain closed||Cashing in on the closure of liquor shops as part of the 21-day lockdown, manufacturing of illicitly distilled (ID) arrack seems to be brewing in the rural areas of Visakhapatnam district. In the last six days, the officials of Excise and Prohibition Department have registered 23 cases pertaining to transport of illicitly distilled arrack and liquor in the rural areas and arrested 18 persons in this connection. According to statistics obtained from the Anakapalle unit of Excise and Prohibition Department, as many as 14 persons have been arrested in 19 cases of illegal storing or transportation of ID arrack. The accused were found selling the ID arrack at higher prices. Among the cases, five were registered at V. Madugula, while three each were reported from Araku and Yelamanchali, and two each from Chodavaram and Anakapalle. Paderu, Narsipatnam and Chintapalle registered one case each. “With all liquor shops remaining closed, boozers are turning to ID arrack or toddy in rural areas. Some gangs were found manufacturing and supplying it locally,” said a senior excise official. Jaggery wash seized In these 19 cases, the officials have seized 185 litres of ID arrack and 3,600 litres of fermented jaggery wash. Meanwhile, the excise teams arrested four persons in separate cases while they were found transporting liquor at Anakapalle, Chodavaram and Yelamanchali. The teams have seized several bottles of IML.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illicit-arrack-business-brewing-as-liquor-shops-remain-closed/article31243367.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Differently-abled man donates pension for relief activities||The COVID-19 relief operations have been drawing a good response from all walks of life, with the high and mighty and the citizens contributing to relief funds. A differently-abled person from Jalluru in Kota Uratla mandal of Visakhapatnam district has contributed his welfare pension of Rs. 3000 towards the relief operations. “At a time when the entire country is enduring a crisis situation, it is my duty to contribute towards the relief activities,” said Koncha Venkata Ramana Murthy. He handed over cheques for Rs. 1,000 each to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Narsipatnam. NSTL’s gesture Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) distributed food packets to homeless persons at Simhachalam railway station and in the places nearby NAD Junction. NSTL Director O.R. Nandagopan, along with his wife Lalitamai Nandagopan, and other officers participated in the programme. Meanwhile, CPI leader J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, along with party colleagues Paidiraju, S.K. Rahaman and A. Vimala, distributed 5 kg rice each to 150 needy families at Arilova on Thursday. The Hotel Park also distributed about 150 food packets to the needy and the police personnel on duty on the stretch between Siripuram and city railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/differently-abled-man-donates-pension-for-relief-activities/article31243370.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VPT posts impressive growth in 2019-20 financial year||Continuing its growth trajectory, the Visakhapatnam port has achieved highest incremental growth of 11.5%, the highest among all major ports during 2019-20. Not withstanding the economy slowdown and competition thrown by the Gangavaram and other ports in the neighbourhood, the Visakhapatnam port has handled 72.72 million tonnes compared to 65.30 million tonnes the previous year. It received 7.42 million tonnes additionally. “This is possible due to team work and support from the Railways, Customs and other stakeholders,” VPT Chairman K. Rammohan Rao told The Hindu . Another significant achievement was its elevation from fourth to third position, surpassing Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT). Kandla retained the premier port status followed by the Paradip port. “COVID-19 has caused dislocation, because of which we could handle a million tonnes less during the last month of the financial year,” VPT Deputy Chairman P.L. Haranadh said. He attributed higher turnaround and less dwell time to remarkable improvement in volume of cargo. Major cargo that was handled during the year included (in million tonnes) crude and POL 18.92, iron ore and pellets 14.39, coking coal 7.45, steam coal 9.27 and containers 5.03 lakh TEU. VPT had put up an all-time high record since 1933 when it was opened to ocean traffic. It achieved 7.45% overall growth, the highest among all major ports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vpt-posts-impressive-growth-in-2019-20-financial-year/article31243375.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rama Navami celebrations a low-key affair||Sri Rama Navami celebrations remained a low-key affair in the city on Thursday, amid the lockdown announced to check the COVID-19 pandemic. Even as the priests performed the celestial wedding of Lord Rama with Goddess Sita, devotees were not allowed into the temples. The priests performed the rituals in the presence of a few family members and temple committee members in small numbers. The priests were seen wearing masks as they performed the pujas at many temples inn the city. A few devotees gathered outside the gates of the Hanuman temple at Sai Nagar at Marripalem on the auspicious occasion and prayed to the deity. A member of the temple committee members were seen asking them to leave quickly and to avoid standing close to each other in view of the virus threat. At a temple near Police Barracks, four priests performed the rituals, with the participation of their family members only. Prasadam was distributed to a few devotees outside the temple. Devotees were not allowed at Sri Rama temple near Jagadamba Junction. However, devotees turned up at small temples in Old Town area and prasadam was distributed0 to them. At the oldest temple of Lord Rama at Chengalaraopeta, priests were seen wearing masks while performing the ritual. The temple is said to have been constructed in 1540 AD. The ‘Kalyanam’ of Lord Rama and Sita was performed at Port Kalyana Mandapam and a few devotees with masks attended. Live telecast Many devotees watched the celestial wedding performed at the Sri Rama temple at Bhadrachalam in Telangana, which was telecast live on TV channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rama-navami-celebrations-a-low-key-affair/article31243377.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL stares at huge loss ever since inception||Uncertainty dogs Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), with its turnover falling down drastically and turbulent time ahead due to the fallout of the COVID-19 crisis. The company is faced with spiralling interest burden and losses are expected to reach alarming proportions. Ambitious target RINL, during just-concluded financial year, clocked a turnover of Rs. 15,800 crore by producing 4.98 million tonne liquid steel and around 4.46 million tonne saleable steel. The company has set an ambitious target of Rs. 25,000-crore turnover for 2019-20 after achieving a turnover of Rs. 20,844 crore during 2018-19. Economy slowdown, prolonged sluggish conditions in the market, and impact of COVID-19 at the fag end of the fiscal cast a shadow on the performance of RINL, official sources told The Hindu . The exact amount of losses during 2019-20 will be known after auditing. Sources say it will be the highest since RINL’s inception. The company did well in 2018-19 by earning a net profit of Rs. 97 crore after incurring a net loss of Rs. 1,421 crore in 2015-16, Rs. 1,236 crore in 2016-17 and Rs. 1,321 crore in 2017-18. The company recently ramped up its new units under Rs. 4,000-crore capital repairs of blast furnaces and modernisation to increase its production capacity from 6.3 to 7.3 million tonnes. Capacity reduced Due to COVID-19, it has reduced its capacity by shutting down one of the three blast furnaces to roll out 13,000 tonne to 14,000 tonne hot metal per day against the capacity of 20,000 tonne. The Centre’s proposal to explore a joint venture with POSCO by allotting 3,000 acres of RINL land on the premises of the VSP here to set up a three million tonne Greenfield steel plant to meet the requirement of the automobile industry with an estimated investment of Rs. 15,000 crore is facing stiff opposition from the employees’ unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-stares-at-huge-loss-ever-since-inception/article31242872.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No change in timings for essential commodity stores||Clarifying that the posts circulating on social medial platforms claiming that the Collector have issued new timings for implementation of lockdown are fake, the officials on Thursday made it clear that no such notification had been issued. A post circulated in WhatsApp groups had claimed that the essential commodities stores were allowed to remain open between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. and milk booths would be open till 8 a.m. ‘Do not beleive in rumours’ “The timing for purchase of essential commodities from stores are allowed between 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. No notification has been issued pertaining to change in the timings. People must not believe such rumours,” the district administration clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-change-in-timings-for-essential-commodity-stores/article31243368.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Issues will be sorted out’||The issues pertaining to shortage of nurses will be sorted out, if details are given, Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar said at a meeting with the Isolation Committee members said on Thursday. “Depending upon the need, a special notification will be issued,” he said. Reviewing the healthcare services being extended to COVID-19 positive patients and those having symptoms, he said the patients should be made to feel home by providing all facilities without giving room to panic. At present, ten patients are being treated at the GITAM Hospital and the suspected cases at the Government Hospital for Chest Diseases and the ENT Hospital.  “Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) must be given to doctors and paramedics. House-keeping and sanitation workers must be provided with protective gear. Medical waste disposal should be taken up with all precautions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/issues-will-be-sorted-out/article31243371.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 screening centre opened||A screening centre was opened at the Government ENT Hospital on Thursday. Swabs of suspected persons were taken on the first day and sent to the testing centre at Kakinada. The reports are expected in a day and if any patient turns out to be positive, they would be sent to the GITAM Hospital , the District COVID-19 isolation centre or the Government Chest Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-screening-centre-opened/article31243366.ece
03 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 20 lakh donated for police on lockdown duty||Several organisations have donated Rs. 20 lakh in total to meet the needs of police personnel who are implementing the lockdown. The initiative was taken by MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana. Proprietor of Vishnu Chemicals Ch. Krishna Murthy handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh to Police Commissioner R.K. Meena on Thursday. A cheque for Rs. 5 lakh was presented on behalf of Waltair Club. Others were C. Srinivas of Chilukuri Constructions (Rs. 2 lakh); L. Rama Rao and S. Srinivas (Rs. 1 lakh); Srinivas and Adiseshaih of Rockdale Hotel and Vengamamba Stone Crushers (Rs. 1 lakh) and Mukka Obul Reddy of Honey Group (Rs. 1 lakh). The MP has contributed Rs. 25 lakh for purchase of testing kits, and other equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-20-lakh-donated-for-police-on-lockdown-duty/article31243373.ece
03 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festivities streamed live||Sri Rama Navami festival was celebrated in a traditional manner at the historic Ramateertham temple of Nellimarla and the Rama Narayanam temple.  Rama Narayanam temple trustee Narayanam Srinivas said that the entire celebrations were made available for the devotees through social media platforms. “The devotees could watch Kalyanam with support of digital platforms," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festivities-streamed-live/article31243340.ece
03 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t let your guard down, doctors told||The district administrations of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam — the only two districts in the State which have remained free of coronavirus till now — were asked not to let their guard down and continue to remain vigilant. Senior IAS officer and Vizianagaram Special Officer Vivek Yadav on Thursday held a high-level meeting with doctors of Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), which has been identified as a COVID-19 hospital. Doctors informed him that 50 beds have been readied in the ICU and over 200 beds kept in non-ICU wards to treat COVID-19 cases. The Vizianagaram district administration said that seven persons from the district who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin have tested negative for the pandemic. Nobody from Srikakulam district attended the congregation, officials said. “Doctors and medical teams have been advised to prepare for the worst. There should not be any lapses in prepardness as cases can appear suddenly. The situation may spiral out of control if COVID-19 spreads quickly. There should not be any complacence even after lifting of the lockdown,” Mr. Yadav said. “People should avoid travel. Social distancing rules will continue to be in force even after the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-let-your-guard-down-doctors-told/article31243339.ece
03 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With no help from companies, migrant workers out in the cold||Lockdown imposed all over the country in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 has proved to be a bane for construction workers and other labourers from the two districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. As many as 5.5 lakh people from Srikakulam district and 2.5 lakh from Vizianagaram district work in various places, including New Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Hyderabad. Now, their life becomes miserable as lockdown has deprived them of their work. Representatives of construction companies and contractors have allegedly failed to take care of them at this crucial juncture. Their family members in these two districts are a worried lot. According to them, many women, including those pregnant, and children are facing untold miseries. Those who tried to come back to their native villages could not do it due to curbs imposed at borders of various States. Only a few people could reach their native places with great difficulty. A group of workers of Terlam mandal somehow reached up to Kothavalasa of Vizianagaram district. But going to Terlam had become a Herculean task for them as almost all of them exhausted and suffered from multiple health disorders. 'No shelter and food' The situation is pathetic in case of women and children. “We were forced to vacate the construction area after imposition of lockdown. As there was no shelter and food in Hyderabad, we were returning to our native places,” said B. Gowri Naidu. S. Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao, who noticed their pathetic condition, arranged vehicles for them to reach their villages. “After conducting medical tests and getting permission from higher officials, they were taken to Terlam and surrounding areas. They were directed to follow quarantine rules for next two weeks,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-no-help-from-companies-migrant-workers-out-in-the-cold/article31243337.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dishing out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dishing-out/article31242776.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spreading the message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spreading-the-message/article31242841.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Powerful message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/powerful-message/article31243346.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Duty first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/duty-first/article31243360.ece
03 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 victim given a quiet burial in Nirmal||The body of the 50-year-old COVID-19 patient who died at Gandhi hospital in Hyderabad the previous day, was given a quiet burial in the small hours of Thursday at the burial ground in Nirmal district headquarters town to where he belonged. The ambulance carrying the body reached town from Hyderabad around 4 a.m. and the burial took place with only a couple of close relatives, municipal workers and other authorities in attendance after performance of the last prayers and religious rites. Nirmal district authorities swung into action to control any further spread of the COVID-19 infestation by cordoning off Zohranagar locality, early in the day. Prohibitory orders were imposed in the locality to restrict people coming out of homes. Supply of essentials Collector Md. Musharraf Ali Faruqui toured the area on foot making announcements about restrictions on movement of people. Asking locals not to venture out of their homes, he assured them that all essentials, including rations and vegetables will be supplied at their doorsteps. According to District Medical and Health Officer Vasanth, an extent of one km radius in and around Zohranagar and a three km radius of buffer area was disinfected using fire tenders. “The one km radius area is where the patient might have come in personal contact with people,” the official said. All the homes in the locality have been closed and house-to-house survey was done to identify people who may have come in contact with the patient and conduct tests for COVID-19 infection on them. As many as 100 medical teams will execute this task. Contacts screened The immediate family of the deceased as well as those who were staying in the rented portions of the house were screened and put in quarantine. As many as 36 people were quarantined which included eight family members who were primary and secondary contacts since he arrived from Delhi. The deceased had attended the Tablighi Jamaat at Dehli having left for Delhi on March 13. He returned to Hyderabad’s Shamshabad airport on March 18 and straight away went to Nirmal. He contacted a local doctor the next day who suggested him to undergo tests for typhoid which he was down with. The deceased stayed at home since then until a casual visitor met him on March 29. On that day he was traced by authorities who were looking for Jamaat returnees in town and was shifted to Nirmal Area hospital as his health condition was not good and he had developed symptoms of COVID-19. The next day he was admitted to Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad where he died of cardiac arrest on April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-victim-given-a-quiet-burial-in-nirmal/article31243152.ece
03 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Nirmal town under complete lockdown||In the wake of the death of a COVID-19 patient from town, Nirmal will be under complete lockdown for the next four days starting Friday. In order to control spread of the viral infection no vehicle, except ambulances and carriers of essential goods will be allowed on the roads during this period, according to Collector Md. Musharraf Ali Faruqui. After reviewing the situation post the death of a COVID-19 patient from town, the Collector told mediapersons on Thursday that as many as 36 persons who had come in contact with the deceased after his return from the Tablighi Jamaat were put in quarantine. As many as 100 medical teams will conduct door-to-door survey for the viral infection involving the 70,000 citizens in town, he said. The main vegetable market in the NTR mini stadium has been closed and 8 smaller ones have been opened at different places in town, Mr. Faruqui said. He also asked private medical shop owners to collect name and address of persons who come seeking medicines as self prescription. Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju warned people of stringent action in case they were found roaming on two wheelers or four wheelers. The officials appealed people to cooperate in order to control spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nirmal-town-under-complete-lockdown/article31243153.ece
03 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Sita-Rama kalyanam conducted sans fanfare at Bhadrachalam temple||Priests invoked divine intervention to get humanity rid of the scourge of coronavirus during the celestial wedding of Lord Rama with his consort Sita, solemnised at a simple ceremony, overshadowed by the threat of COVID-19, in the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on Thursday. The low-key wedding ceremony held on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami saw participation of a handful of elected representatives and officials besides the temple priests.  No public allowed The ceremony was conducted at the Nitya Kalyana Mandapam inside the temple complex as per temple traditions bereft of the usual fanfare and spirited participation of devotees associated with the annual mega religious event. The Mithila Stadium and other surroundings of the temple complex as well as the whole temple town wore a deserted look on account of the nationwide lockdown. The historic 17th-Century temple remained closed for devotees for the consecutive 14th day on Thursday in view of the 21-day lockdown presently in force across the country as part of measures to stem the spread of the deadly virus. Live telecast of the entire celestial wedding from the temple complex provided the much needed solace to the ardent devotees of Lord Rama, who missed an opportunity to attend the ceremony at the famous temple, due to lockdown. In line with the age-old tradition, Endowments Minister A Indrakaran Reddy presented “Mutyala Talambralu” and “Pattu Vastrams” on behalf of the State government to the “divine couple” – Lord Rama and Sita. During the ceremony, the priests quoted Bhakta Ramadasu’s keertanas hailing Lord Rama as an epitome of virtues and compassion. They sang some popular compositions such as “Dasarathi Karunapayonidhi” seeking the divine intervention to bestow strength to the governments, medical professionals, police and all others engaged in a relentless fight against coronavirus to defeat the global pandemic and uphold Loka Kalyanam (universal well-being). Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar, Mahabubabad MP M. Kavitha, Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah, Advisor to the State government on Culture, Endowments, Tourism, Youth and Media Affairs K V Ramanachary attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sita-rama-kalyanam-conducted-sans-fanfare-at-bhadrachalam-temple/article31243167.ece
03 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Order muthyala talambralu online||Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy on Thursday launched a mobile application as part of the ‘T-App Folio’ for placing orders for ‘mutyala talambralu’ online in view of the nationwide lockdown on account of coronavirus threat. Mr. Reddy attended the celestial wedding held in a simple manner devoid of devotees in the famous Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami in Bhadrachalam on Thursday. Later, he launched the mobile app., which will allow devotees to order ‘the much sought after ‘mutyala talambralu, according to temple sources. The mobile app. can be downloaded on any smart phone with access to Google Play Store. Each devotee can book only two small packets of mutyala talambralu each costing Rs. 20 (excluding postal and other handling charges).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/order-muthyala-talambralu-online/article31243168.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A day after attack, security beefed up at Gandhi Hospital||A day after the attack on junior doctor at Gandhi Hospital, every move there is being monitored by the police. Security at the State government tertiary care hospital — the biggest COVID-19 isolation facility in the State —was heightened. Around 200 policemen are posted on duty in three shifts. At least three policemen are posted in each of the three floors of the hospital’s main building where COVID-19 patients and suspects are admitted. On Wednesday, two family members, also COVID-19 patients, of another coronavirus patient who died allegedly assaulted a junior doctor in the seventh floor of the hospital. Cases were filed against the attackers and they were shifted to another government isolation facility in the city. A few hours into the unfortunate incident which affected the morale of doctors, security was reviewed and measures were taken. From Thursday, people entering the hospital are being asked for identity right from the tall and wide main gates. Earlier, entry into the State government tertiary care facility was free for all. There was no bar on the number of attendants of patients. In fact, youngsters living in localities around the health facility used to come in groups to play cricket in the huge ground near the Gandhi Medical College hostel. Now, entry is strictly restricted to COVID-19 patients, suspects, doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals. Attendants are not allowed. To enter the main building of the hospital, one has to cross several layers of barricades and police. Healthcare professionals from the hospital The Hindu spoke to, who feared for their safety after the attack, said that presence of police made them feel secure. “Now we don’t fear such attacks,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. Traffic Additional DCP (North) A Bhaskar is the in-charge of security there. An ACP rank officer is the in-charge of the main building. One sub-inspector and five police constables are posted at reception and screening area. Quick Response Teams are kept as reserve. Apart from security, Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) members asked for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for all healthcare professionals working in isolation wards and emergency wards. Other hospitals Apart from Gandhi Hospital, COVID-19 patients are admitted in Government General and Chest Hospital, District Hospital in King Koti. Suspects are admitted in all the three and at Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases. Officials said at least five constables are posted near Isolation Ward of Chest Hospital from the past four-days. Security at the District Hospital was reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-day-after-attack-security-beefed-up-at-gandhi-hospital/article31243128.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||15 test positive for COVID-19 in five districts of Telangana||As many as 15 people from Nalgonda, Suryapet and erstwhile Medak districts of Telangana who attended Markaz prayers in Delhi last month tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. Five residents of Nalgonda town and a woman from Miryalaguda, who had been to the national capital tested positive for COVID-19, District Medical and Health Officer Kondal Rao confirmed on Thursday. Of the total 44 persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat from Nalgonda, 34 tested negative for COVID-19, six tested positive and test results of four persons are awaited, he said. The information from the Ministry of Health was disclosed only to medical and police officials late on Wednesday night. According to officials, the patients were identified as residents of Seetharampuram in Miryalaguda, Meer Bagh colony, Barqatpur, Manyam Chelka and Rahmath Bagh colony in Nalgonda town. Rapid Response Teams on Thursday morning traced primary contact and picked up families of the six patients amid resistance from relatives and colony residents. Officials said 39 people were the primary contacts and they were all quarantined at the District Hospital. The 34 who tested negative were brought back from Hyderabad and were lodged at Mahatma Gandhi University – quarantine centre at Anneparthy. Mr. Rao said samples of 39 primary contacts were sent to Hyderabad for testing. Search for secondary contacts would be started on Friday. District Collector Prashant J Patil on Thursday said that all the four colonies In Nalgonda, where the five persons who tested positive for COVID-19 reside, will be cordoned off and movement of all persons there prohibited to arrest the spread of the disease. “Manyam Chelka, Rahmath Bagh Nagar, Barqatpur and Meer Bagh Colony have been cordoned off and strictly movement of all residents in these colonies is prohibited,” he said. All entry and exit points to the residential colonies have been barricaded and fences installed. Starting Friday, Mr. Patil said, essential services such as vegetables, fruits and provisions, including the 12 kg rice provision by the government will be delivered to every house in the colony at their door step. Suryapet district Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy said on Thursday that one person tested positive for COVID-19, a first in the district. The patient was one of the 12 persons from the district who attended the Markaz prayers. Ten others tested negative for the virus. Arrangements were being made to shift the positive person to Hyderabad, Mr Reddy said. In Sangareddy, six persons out of the 21 who been to Delhi to attend Markaz prayers tested positive for COVID-19. All of them were shifted to Gandhi Hospital. Out of the six persons, two belong to Sangareddy town, two from Angadipet, one each from Kondapur and Zaheerabad. The officials have identified 43 primary contacts of the COVID- 19 patients. All the 43 belonging to the six families are being shifted to Narayana College located at Pati. 42 medical teams have been formed to identify secondary contacts. Soon after reports about six persons testing positive reached the district administration, Finance minister T. Harish Rao along with Lok Sabha member K Prabhakar Reddy held a review meeting with Collector M. Hanuamantha Rao and Superintendent of Police S. Chandrasekhar Reddy. Mr. Harish Rao said that samples of all the 43 persons will be taken and sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). Mr Rao said that eight people – six from Sangareddy, one each from Medak and Gajwel – from the erstwhile Medak district- were reported COVID positive. Meanwhile, a head constable working on Telangana-Maharashtra border in Basar area in Nirmal district has been admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward at Government General Hospital in Nizamabad on Thursday as he developed symptoms for the virus.  (With inputs from our correspondents in Nalgonda, Sangareddy and Nizamabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/15-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-five-districts-of-telangana/article31243162.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Empty shelves, vanishing grocery items greeting customers||Empty shelves, vanishing grocery items and even toiletries. This is the ubiquitous scenario that greets one ever since the lockdown was announced. Customers eagerly waiting for replenishment of stocks in leading departmental stores or the neighbourhood standalone provision stores, have no choice, but go back empty-handed or make do with whatever is left. All kinds of pulses, grounded powder — be it sooji ( Bombay ravva), idli ravva or rice ravva, ‘poha’ ( beaten rice) that form the staple breakfast in many households, red chillies, tamarind, oils, ghee, seasoning ingredients, coffee, tea, groundnut, spices, are particularly in short supply. Even before lockdown and Janata curfew was announced, many had a cue on what is in store and people started stocking up food items. It is literally like a raid in many departmental stores. This led to shortage of grocery for people who were merely looking to buy commodities to last them for a couple of weeks. Says Ravindran, a manager in a chain of department stores in a gated community in Manikonda, “There is stock in our godown but we do not have staff to clean and pack the grocery products like pulses, ravva. We normally work with 25 workers, but since lockdown we are managing with five persons. Hence we not able to replenish the empty shelves in the departmental stores.” A departmental store in Nalagandla did a record business of Rs. 30 lakh on a single day as people bought cartonloads of everything to last them for few months. “We may not have business for the next few weeks or months in this area as people bought in anticipation of long-term lockdown,” the stores supervisor said. Vindhya, a resident of Nalagandla and a professor, says one can understand the anxiety. But panic buying by some has deprived some others even of their normal daily requirements. Most of the provision stores employ women and girls to clean, sort out and pack the loose grocery products into different quantities to suit the requirements of customers. But with no public transport following lockdown, families reluctant to send young women working in departmental stores out, many stores are unable to move their stock from godown into their retail outlets. “We can’t compel the staff to come to work when people are scared of COVID-19 transmission. The government also asked employers not to cut the wages of daily wage earners. There is no compulsion for them to work as their earnings are assured,” grumbles another storekeeper in Dilsukhnagar. The grocery stores are located in ‘red zone’ areas from where COVID-19 cases are reported, police surveillance and pickets are more. Thus staff working in departmental stores are unable to reach there and the stores are working with limited staff affecting their operations. Ravikanth, a stockist of Tata global services, says as there is no adequate stock, some popular departmental chains are only open from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and many of them are not able to lift stocks due to shortage of manpower. Some customers are directly approaching him for emergency needs with departmental stores running out of stock. Barring milk, vegetables, fruits that are sold even by pushcart vendors and street corner shops in some areas, essential provisions are out of stock as supplies are taking time to reach. If supply chain is not streamlined soon, consumers are bound to face hardships. Red chillies are not available anywhere in the market as they have to come from cold storage and millers and indent for rice stocks is increasing. There is no replenishment of branded diapers and sanitary napkins. Wholesaler Metro Cash and Carry is also closed . Retail shops normally keep inventory to last for one month to 45 days and are not able to get fresh stocks. “We expect supply of essential commodities to resume in a week,” says Ravikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/empty-shelves-vanishing-grocery-items-greeting-customers/article31243133.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hotel industry in city feel the heat||Either paper notices declaring “hotel is closed” or locked entrance gates greet visitors to these premises for the past 12 days. The lockdown due to coronavirus from March 22 has resulted in closure of about 3,000 below three-star hotels, 120 above three-star hotels and a few standalone posh restaurants. On March 22, when the Janata Curfew was observed and brought life to a standstill, the hotel managements had no clue that they will be asked to shut down from the next day as part of a nationwide lockdown. Police landed at hotels that day and ordered eviction of inmates, which was mostly obliged by them as the railways had already cancelled all train services and domestic flights were to follow suit from the midnight of March 24. Barring a few guests, who could not get flight tickets, all star hotels reported zero occupancy from March 25 till date. The story was no different in the 3,000-odd economy hotels and lodges with inmates either taking shelter with their local contacts or returning home by road with several stoppages by police en route. The loss of income from March 25 has hit the hotel managements, particularly below star hotels, hard as almost all of them are leased premises which were due for payment of rent before 10th of every month. The building owners pressed for rent from the beginning of the month. Even the smallest of lodge paid a monthly rent of Rs. 1 lakh while it went up to Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh per month for large ones, according to VP of Telangana State Hotels’ Association Kancharla Ashok Reddy. He said rent, staff salary and electricity bills constituted the major expenditure of hotels. As hotels were run with residential workers, they had to be supplied food in addition to payment of salaries. The electricity charges were a minimum of Rs. 50,000 and went up to Rs. 3 lakh depending on the number of rooms. Mr. Reddy said that April was typically a month of heavy expenditure for hotels because they were liable to pay various licences at the beginning of the new financial year. The trade licence fee was perhaps the biggest one. President of Hotels and Restaurants’ Association of Telangana Ashok Hemrajani said that star hotels had to pay bar licence fee and property tax in addition to meeting routine expenditure in April. He did not expect immediate relief for hotels even after reopening as the revival period could take long to attract guests and set the house in order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hotel-industry-in-city-feel-the-heat/article31243135.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sleepless nights for tipplers||Tipplers are having a tough time post lockdown. Most alcoholics are spending sleepless nights, literally, as they are suffering from withdrawal symptoms such as seizures and even hallucinations. With the non-availability of their regular dose of alcohol, psychiatrists at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH), Erragadda, said that they had attended such cases throughout Wednesday night till early Thursday morning. As a result, stocks of medicines needed to treat them have been kept ready at the institute. Besides, doctors had also attended to a few COVID-19 suspects, who suffered from the effects. When alcoholics abruptly stop taking liquor, they develop symptoms such as restlessness and trembling, which aggravate to seizures and delirium. However, psychiatrists have stressed that doctors would not prescribe daily consumption of alcohol, and suggested detoxification and de-addiction course as a solution to deal with this problem. People addicted to adulterated toddy too are consulting psychiatrists. While the number of out-patients has increased from a maximum of five a day before lockdown to 117 at IMH on Thursday, the number of in-patients is increasing too. Close to 48 people were admitted on Tuesday, and over 22 were admitted on Wednesday and 31 on Thursday. An assistant professor at the institute, Vivaswan Boorla, said that they had attended to many such cases throughout Wednesday night. Earlier, one Duty Medical Officer and around four Assistant Duty Medical Officers used to be posted at nights. “Now, five to six ADMOs are posted,” said IMH superintendent M. Uma Shankar. He said that the de-addiction centre at IMH that was inaugurated in January has 20 beds, but now, beds in other open wards were being used to accommodate the additional number of patients. Former president of Indian Psychiatric Society G. Prasad Rao said that de-addiction therapy for people addicted to alcohol, spouses and other family members, may be required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sleepless-nights-for-tipplers/article31243124.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IMA petitions Narendra Modi||Telangana branch of the Indian Medical Association strongly condemned the assault on doctors at Gandhi Hospital in the city and Nizamabad and sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in giving priority for enacting a legislation to prevent violence against the doctors. State association president Dr. E. Vijayendra Reddy and honorary State secretary Sanjeev Singh Yadav expressed their solidarity to the Telangana Junior Doctors Association, and in a representation to the Prime Minister, said that assault on doctors took place again in spite of all the doctors working in multiple shifts and discharging their duties without rest to tackle Covid-19 pandemic, risking their own lives. They appealed to the Prime Minister that a law must be enacted as a urgent priority and in fact a “Gazette Order is the need of the hour. Stringent action must be taken to curb violent incidents,” they said. The association also brought to the notice of the Prime Minister that the government was expected to insure the families of the medical personnel to the tune of Rs. 1 crore (if any untoward deaths happen) and Rs. 50 lakh (in case the medical personnel are infected). The same must be extended to all the persons who are involved in combating Covid-19 duties - hospital staff, nurses, police personnel, media and sanitation workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ima-petitions-narendra-modi/article31243138.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jan Dhan account holders urged not to crowd banks||Banks have drawn up a schedule based on the last digit of account numbers of women PMJDY (Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana) account holders to make the withdrawal of Covid-19 relief sum, announced by government, easier for them in the first few days beginning April 3. Under the schedule, prepared as a measure to maintain social distancing and orderly withdrawal, beneficiaries with account numbers ending with 0 or 1 will be asked to visit branches on April 3, account numbers with last digits 2 or 3 on April 4, last digits 4 or 5 on April 7, last digits 6 or 7 on April 8, and last digits 8 or 9 on April 9. The State Level Bankers’ Committee, Telangana, has appealed to all the women PMJDY account holders to approach the CSP/BC/ATM/bank only on the day specified. After April 9, the beneficiaries may go on any day as per the normal banking hours. The credit into account would be advised through text message (SMS) by respective banks. For women PMJDY account holders the Central government, as part of the Covid-19 relief package, announced Rs. 500 each will be paid to them for next three months. The schedule is nationwide. April 6 does not figure in the list since it is a bank holiday in some States. Since banks in Telangana will function, the women PMJDY account holders with account number ending with 0, 1, 2 and 3 can visit the branches, sources said. The customer rush is expected for sometime as banks will be closed on April 10 (Good Friday), April 11 (second Saturday), April 12 (Sunday) and April 14 (Ambedkar Jayanti). April 13 is a holiday in some States, but banks in Telangana will function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jan-dhan-account-holders-urged-not-to-crowd-banks/article31243144.ece
03 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Now, Wanaparthy police attack on motorist goes viral, KTR responds||“Please spare my father, please don’t beat him,” a child kept pleading in Wanaparthy town even as the police assaulted his father for violating lockdown norms on Wednesday. Similar incidents of police high-handedness in Telangana continued unabated, despite being brought to the notice of both the police and political bosses. The viral video shot by a bystander shows around half-a-dozen policemen, including two traffic personnel, thrashing the man on the road, in front of his son. The video shows a police constable in mufti pinning the father of a10-year-old boy to the ground amidst a group of policemen, who did precious little to stop the assault. According to the police, the incident took place on Wednesday evening when Murali Krishna, a resident of Wanaparthy town was stopped and questioned for venturing out on streets for ‘no reason’. He was reportedly going to his in-laws’ house a few kilometres from the district headquarters, to drop his son after purchasing groceries. “He picked up an argument with the police for stopping and trying to seize his bike for having 13 pending challans of Rs. 2,820. In a fit of rage, Mr. Murali hit a police constable Ashok Kumar, provoking other constables present on the spot to overpower him and push him down,” an officer said. The scuffle, which went on for a few minutes, ended only after the father-son duo were bundled into a police vehicle, and taken to the police station for questioning, where Mr. Murali Krishna was let off after a case was registered against him. On-duty constable Mr. Ashok is posted at the Central Crime Station, Wanaparthy, while Mr. Murali works for a private firm in Malkajgiri here. The incident became so viral on social media that even IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted about it, and it comes only a day after Wanaparthy DSP K.M. Kiran Kumar threatened villagers with thrashing their buttocks so hard that their ‘flesh would fly off from their bodies’. In his tweet, Mr. Rao condemned the police brutality and said the exceptionally good work of thousands of policemen is undone by the erratic behaviour of a few. He further told Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and DGP M Mahender Reddy that “this attitude of the police is unacceptable in ANY circumstances.” “Request you to take the strictest action on incidents such as this. All the exceptionally good work of thousands of policemen is undone by erratic behaviour of few,” the tweet further read. Responding to the Minister’s tweet, Wanaparthy Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao said that they apologise to the citizens for such ‘behaviour’ by an on-duty constable. “This incident has been enquired into and strict disciplinary action has been initiated on the person responsible. We will ensure that such incidents do not repeat,” she tweeted. A few hours later, Ms. Rao took to twitter again and said the constable in question was placed under suspension. Several twitteratti expressed their angst against the police stating that if the Minister did not intervene the incident could have been overlooked as any other police brutality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-wanaparthy-police-attack-on-motorist-goes-viral-ktr-responds/article31243141.ece
03 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student dies of cardiac arrest in GHMC shelter home||A 23-year-old student who reached Hyderabad from Wardha in Maharashtra and was on his way to native place in Tamil Nadu died from cardiac arrest at a GHMC shelter home on Wednesday. The victim, Bala Subramani Logesh from Namakkal, was part of a group of 26 members, who were hitch-hiking all the way from Wardha, a distance of 460 km. They are pursuing Bsc (Agriculture) in Wardha. DCP (North) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said that on Wednesday evening, the group was intercepted by the police in Bowenpally, and in accordance with lockdown regulation, the group was shifted to a home in West Marredpally. “They were walking for the last ten days. We convinced them to stay in Hyderabad till the lockdown is over,” he said. According to Mr. Shingenavar, on Wednesday evening after having dinner, Subramani suffered a cardiac arrest and was shifted to a hospital, where doctors declared him dead. “When contacted, his parents expressed their inability to reach here, and on humanitarian grounds we have sent the body to his native place,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-ghmc-shelter-home/article31243142.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PIL seeks protection of prisoners||A PIL petition has been filed in the Telangana High Court seeking direction to State government to take steps for the protection of convicts and undertrial prisoners in all the prisons of the State in the backdrop of rising cases of COVID-19. The plea filed by convenor of Forum Against Repression and former professor G. Haragopal is likely to be heard by the High Court on Friday. The petitioner said that the Supreme Court on March 23 had instructed all the States and Union Territories to constitute high-level panels to consider the release of convicts and undertrial prisoners as coronavirus was spreading. The apex court said the prisoners can be released for four to six weeks on parole or on bail depending on the cases they were charged with. Even a week after the SC direction, no decision was taken by the State government on the matter. This was arbitrary and illegal, the petitioner said. There were three Central prisons, seven district jails, 33 sub-jails, a women’s jail and borstal school in the State. There was an open jail and four other special jails. The petitioner stated that there were already complaints about inadequate facilities in the prisons. Some of the jails were overcrowded with convicts and undertrial prisoners. ’There is a conspicuous lack of attention to this section of prisoners serving sentences and awaiting trial under the law,” the former professor stated. He said that other States acted swiftly by shifting the prisoners to other areas to ensure they did not contract coronavirus. Similar action needs to be taken by Telangana government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pil-seeks-protection-of-prisoners/article31243148.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP condemns attack on Gandhi Hospital doctors by kin of victims||Senior leaders of the Telangana State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party led by its president Bandi Sanjay, past president K. Laxman, city president N. Ramchander Rao and others condemned the attack on doctors at Gandhi Hospital by family members of a COVID-19 victim on Wednesday night. They called upon the government and the police to take strong action against the perpetrators and also provide sufficient security to the medical and para-medical staff doing yeoman service to society through their work during these troubled times putting their own lives at risk.  Voluntary disclosure The party appealed to the people who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz to voluntarily come forward and allow to be tested for the Coronavirus. Otherwise it could lead to social transmission leading to dangerous consequences. It also requested the government to consider setting up isolation wards at the Owaisi Hospital also to handle the rising number of cases of COVID-19. Essential provisions are also being distributed in various slums by the party leaders and activists based on call given by the national leadership to come to the rescue of the poor and downtrodden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-condemns-attack-on-gandhi-hospital-doctors-by-kin-of-victims/article31243149.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Media communalising COVID-19: Asad||Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi criticised a section of media for allegedly “communalising” the novel coronavirus and said that it is wrong to hold the Tablighi Jamaat and Islam as responsible for the outbreak in the country. He was speaking to the party’s mouthpiece, 4TV and said he condemns this communalisation. “This media has has given COVID-19 a religion. No country has done this,” he said, and claimed that instead of uniting people in this time of crisis, they are ascribing a religion to it. On Thursday, Mr Owaisi took to Twitter and described those those who die of the novel coronavirus as ‘martyrs’. In an attempt to explain the issue, he said: Those who die as a result of COVID19 are martyrs. Burial of martyrs does not require kafan (shroud) or ghusl (cleansing). One must immediately offer janazah and carry out the burial with a few people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/media-communalising-covid-19-asad/article31243169.ece
03 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free online access for engg. students||“Coempt Edu Teck Pvt. Ltd. is providing three months’ free access to all engineering students to its learning portal ‘www.EduLib.in’ to overcome the academic disruptions during the lockdown period. The portal consists of engineering e-Learning courseware and eLABs consisting of more than 165 subjects and 700 plus practical experiments that have been developed using multimedia components like animations, voice-over, text and pictures. The engineering e-Learning courseware is available for CSE, IT, Mech, Civil, EEE, and ECE, including first year common subjects. The courseware covers major syllabus followed by technology universities from 1st to 4th year of study. All interested students can login through their PCs and laptops to access the engineering courseware, said CEO VSN Raju in a statement here. This initiative will ensure that students use their time productively by positively engaging with academics and also prepare for their exams from the comfort of their home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-online-access-for-engg-students/article31243131.ece
03 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Why shift oustees against court orders’||Congress MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has questioned the government’s decison to shift the villagers of Mamidyala and Bahilampur, to be submerged under Kondapochamma Reservoir, when there is a lockdown. In a statement here, Mr. Reddy said this shifting was being done disrespecting the order of the High Court and this was being done under the supervision of Collector Venkatram Reddy. He also tweeted the same attaching a High Court order that apparently stayed the shifting of the villagers for the time being. The villages are getting submerged under the Kondapochamma reservoir being constructed as a part of the Kaleshwaram project. People of two villagers Thanedarpally Tanda and Thanedarpally were already shifted to new houses at Tunkibollaram Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-shift-oustees-against-court-orders/article31243150.ece
03 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Narayana group starts online teaching||The Narayana Group of Educational Institutions has launched online classes, tests and deep learning apps, nLearn and Narayana Online Test Series, to ensure students continue to learn at home during lockdown. With the help of these online learning apps, Narayana group is now streaming a daily average of more than 10,000 live online classes across the country in more than 600 branches for more than 75,000 students, a statement said. The educational group is also hosting live exams and posting exam video solutions on the web, Android tab and mobile applications respectively. Assignments, solutions, audio lectures and videos are being distributed directly to students’ mobile phones via ‘nConnect’ App and all teachers are available online to guide students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narayana-group-starts-online-teaching/article31243130.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fact-checking site launched to curb fake COVID-19 news||The Telangana government on Thursday launched a fact-checking site, https://factcheck.telangana.gov.in, to fight the menace of fake news and rumours. Citizens can share information on the website to get it verified. The initiative is a partnership between Telangana ITE & C department and fact-checking site, Factly. Within hours of its launch, the site went down due to high traffic. “We didn’t anticipate this kind of traffic. We have sorted out the problem now,” said Dileep Konatham of Telangana government. Telangana is perhaps the first State to have launched a fact-checking website, as the reach of fake news has increased by leaps and bounds. The government has already invoked provisions of Section 52 of Disaster Management Act 2005 to penalise offenders spreading fake news about COVID-19. April 2 is Fact-Checking Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fact-checking-site-launched-to-curb-fake-covid-19-news/article31243129.ece
03 April 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||A low-key affair at Vemulawada||The celestial wedding of Lord Rama with his consort Sita was performed with religious fervour but was a low-key affair as part of Sri Rama Navami celebrations at Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada in the district on Thursday. Following government ordered lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19, the devasthanam authorities have already closed down the temple. The celestial wedding was performed inside the temple premises with few priests. The traditional procession of the deities after the wedding ceremony in the streets of Vemulawada temple town on Thursday evening was also cancelled. Brides of Siva  The lockdown caused disappointment among the devotees who enthusiastically participate in the unique annual ritual to wed Lord Siva on the occasion of Sri Ramanavami celebrations at the Vemulawada temple. Several thousands of devotees including men, women and third gender dress up as brides of Lord Siva and declare themselves as married to the Lord after the ceremonial wedding of Lord Rama and Sita by sprinkling ‘thalambralu’. The ritual was cancelled due to lockdown. The third gender arrive in hordes and participate in the celestial wedding with pomp and gaiety during the two-day celebrations. Other devotees also dress up as brides of Lord Siva as part of fulfilment of their vow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-low-key-affair-at-vemulawada/article31243154.ece
03 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IITs study COVID-19 impact on commuters||Researchers of the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IIT-H) and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) have studied the impact of COVID-19 outbreak on daily commute, during the transition phase between pre-lockdown and lockdown period. The researchers believe that the lockdown decision taken by the government has reduced the risk of exposure to coronavirus, due to shutting down of buses, Metro and trains. This study is useful in understanding the decision-making ability of commuters while selecting their preferred mode of transport. The research team comprised Digvijay S. Pawar and Pritha Chatterjee, assistant professors of the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Hyderabad, Nagendra Velaga of the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Bombay, and Ankit Kumar Yadav, a researcher of IIT-B. The study analysed the travel and visit behaviour changes in the third week of COVID-19 outbreak during pre-lockdown period. The data related to daily commute and visit behaviour was collected through an online questionnaire. Dr. Pawar said, “Given the uncertainties in the minds of commuters regarding their travel behaviour due to social distancing, it is important for policy-makers and local transport authorities in general to understand the change in travel pattern.” In Tier-1 cities, about 12% of respondents switched from public to private mode in the third week of COVID-19. This modal shift was about 9% in Tier-2 cities and about 7% in Tier-3 cities. This indicates that awareness about COVID-19 is higher in Tier-1 cities, followed by Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iits-study-covid-19-impact-on-commuters/article31243122.ece
03 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||‘TS power utilities defying Dharmadhikari panel order’||The Andhra Pradesh power utilities have urged the Dharmadhikari Committee to give appropriate directions relating to the re-posting of and payment of salaries to the exchanged employees in view of the alleged defiance of it’s final orders by the Telangana utilities. It is reliably learnt that in a letter to Justice Dharmadhikari, AP-Transco Joint Managing Director K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu has stated that the Andhra Pradesh power utilities are required to admit the 655 employees relieved from Telangana as per the committee’s final report dated December 26, 2019. Similarly, the Telangana power utilities are mandated to absorb 655 employees relieved from the A.P. utilities. The committee should, therefore, order the Telangana utilities to take immediate steps for giving posting to the employees and sorting out the issue of payment of salaries, Mr. Babu has requested. Meanwhile, the APSEB Engineers’ Association (APSEBEA) has informed the committee that the Telangana utilities have not come forward to induct the 584 employees relieved from A.P. in pursuance of the final orders dated March 11, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-power-utilities-defying-dharmadhikari-panel-order/article31243145.ece
03 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||3 foreigners who visited Nizamuddin centre test positive for COVID-19||Three Bangladeshi nationals, who had visited the Nizamuddin Tabligh centre this past month, tested positive for COVID-19 in Palwal here on Thursday. The district administration has declared five villages as “containment zone” following the test results and suspended the sarpanches for concealing information about them. Besides, 109 more people who visited the Nizamuddin Tabligh centre were traced from different parts of the district late on Wednesday. The samples of 43 of them have been taken and they have been kept at isolation wards. The rest have been sent to quarantine centres. Chief Medical Officer, Palwal, Brahmdeep Sing h, told The Hindu that 12 people, 10 of them Bangladeshi nationals, were brought to hospital by the local police from a mosque in a village on March 31. They all had participated at a programme at Nizamuddin Tabligah centre and their samples were taken. “Three of them have tested positive. They are kept at isolation ward,” said Mr. Singh. He said these people had visited as many as 201 houses in five different villages. “The residents of these houses have been told to practice home quarantine and their houses stamped,” said Mr. Singh. An FIR under different IPC sections has also been registered against the 12 people at Hathin police station for not informing the local administration about their visit. Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal declared the five villages, falling in Hathin block, as “containment zone” and the six adjoining districts as “buffer zone”. The Sarpanches of these villages have been suspended and show-cause notices served to the nambardars and chowkidars for hiding the information about the visit of the foreigners. Also, the Duty Magistrate of Hatin block has been asked to explain the failure on his part. In neighbouring Nuh, as many as 191 people from Nizamuddin Tabligh centre have been traced and the samples of nine of them taken. Meanwhile, a 67-year-old resident of Ambala, a COVID-19 patient, died at a hospital in Chandigarh. However, the result of his test was received after his death. CMO, Ambala, Kuldeep Singh, said the elderly was admitted to Chandigarh after severe respiratory infection and had a history of diabetes and cardiac surgery. He had organised a function at his house on March 20 inviting several NRI friends. Mr. Singh said samples of ten people, including the family of the deceased, were taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-foreigners-who-visited-nizamuddin-centre-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31243059.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two succumb to COVID-19 in city||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that two people who had tested positive for COVID-19 after being evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin died. This takes the count of people who have died due to the disease in the Capital to four. Mr. Kejriwal said that out of the 2,346 people evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat centre, 108 have tested positive for COVID-19 and warned that the numbers may shoot up in the Capital in the coming days as the government has decided to test 536 more people who were evacuated and admitted in the hospital. The Chief Minister added that a total of 2,943 people have been quarantined by the government out of which 1,810 are from the markaz (centre) at Nizamuddin and 1,133 are travellers. As many as 21,307 people, he said, have been advised home quarantine, he said. Speaking about the government’s plans to ensure that nobody is hungry in the city due to the shutdown of non-essential services, Mr. Kejriwal said, over six lakh people were provided lunch and dinner for free on Wednesday at various hunger relief centres set up by the government. He said that the government has the capacity to scale it up to 10 lakh meals, if the need arises. He added that efforts are being made to open more camps so that people do not have to walk too far to get food.  Mr. Kejriwal said that for the past couple of days, he had been receiving requests from drivers of public transport vehicles to provide some assistance to them to deal with the lockdown. Financial assistance The Chief Minister announced that the government would provide a financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to each driver of public service vehicles like autorickshaws, taxis, e-rickshaws, Gramin Sewa vehicles, RTVs and other such vehicles that could not ply due to the lockdown. However, He added that it would take a while for the money to reach them as the government did not have their bank account numbers on record and was trying to work out a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-succumb-to-covid-19-in-city/article31243062.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees biggest single-day jump in COVID-19 patients||Two deaths and 141 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to four and total cases to 293, an increase of 92.7% compared to Wednesday, according to the Delhi government. This is the biggest single-day jump in the city so far. Of the 141 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, 129 are from a centre run by Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, which was evacuated by the authorities. A total of 182 people from the centre tested positive for COVID-19 in Delhi alone. Till Wednesday, which had recorded the previous biggest single-day leap, Delhi had only 152 cases. Steeper graph According to officials, the number of single-day cases is expected to surge as a majority of the people evacuated from the centre, who are admitted in hospitals, are testing positive. As many as 2,346 people were evacuated and 536 of them sent to hospitals and 1,810 to quarantine facilities in an operation which concluded in the early hours of Wednesday, as per Delhi government’s statistics. Of the total 293 cases, eight people have been discharged from the hospitals. Also, a total of 3,075 people are in various quarantine facilities across the city. Isolation ward Meanwhile, New Delhi Municipal Council has set aside six beds in an isolation ward specially created for any emergency at Charak Palika Hospital in Moti Bagh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-patients/article31243066.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Trapped migrants in Capital long to be back with their families||Seven to eight people cramped in a small room with little or no ventilation, nor proper space to cook and nowhere to go for 21 days, the migrant workers in Delhi, who missed the first wave of exodus to their home town and villages, yearns to be back with their families. The countrywide restrictions imposed on movement of people due to the COVID-19 pandemic also meant that the migrant workers in Delhi are forced to stay indoors in debilitating conditions. Mr. Sunil Kumar, who hails from Purnia district in Bihar, said he has been staying with seven other fellow migrant workers in a small room in a multistorey building in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar area. “I don’t know what is happening. I just want to go home, where at least I can be with my family and have some freedom of movement,” Kumar said. No work, no income A construction worker, Kumar is one of the hundreds migrant workers in the area who leads a hand-to-mouth life. For us ‘no work mean no income’, he said, stressing that they have very little money left to even go back home. “The moment, the lockdown restriction are lifted, I am heading back to my village,” he said. In east Delhi Mandawali, Biju Rai has similar stories of overcrowded rooms filled with migrants workers. Rai, born in Vaishali district in Bihar, said he himself was sharing a small room with six other people. “We don’t have any work. Everything is closed. There is no ration left. Even for food we have to go to a local dharmshala or school and wait in line with 400 other people,” Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/trapped-migrants-in-capital-long-to-be-back-with-their-families/article31243071.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighi Jamaat office-bearers wilfully allowed gathering: FIR||The FIR against the Delhi head of the Tablighi Jamaat centre, Maulana Mohammed Saad, and six other office-bearers charges them with “deliberately and wilfully” allowing a huge gathering on the premises that threatened the lives of inmates. The FIR, registered on March 31 at the Crime Branch police station in Pushp Vihar  on the complaint of the SHO of Nizamuddin police station, states that the centre violated lockdown orders and did not maintain social distancing during the COVID-19 outbreak in the city. It states that the building was inspected by the Defence Colony Sub-Divisional Magistrate from March 26 to 30 and the occupants in the building were found violating social distancing rules and not using hand sanitisers and face masks to protect themselves and others from infection. The SDM found around 1,300 people, including foreign nationals, residing in it. In his complaint, the SHO of Nizamuddin police station mentioned that on March 21, the authorities of Jamaat centre were contacted by Delhi Police and reminded about the March 16  Delhi government order prohibiting any political or religious gathering of more than 50 people. The Jamaat was directed to send the foreign delegates to their congregation back to their respective countries and Indians to their respective cities. However, the FIR states, no one paid any heed to the direction of Delhi Police. “On March 24 a meeting was held at Hazrat Nizamuddin police station between the SHO and officer-bearers of Tablighi Jamaat,” the FIR also states. The FIR also refers to an audio recording purportedly of Maulana Saad in circulation on WhatsApp on March 21, in which the speaker is heard asking his followers to defy the lockdown and social distancing and to attend religious gatherings of the organisation. Data mining A Delhi Police officer said extensive data mining has been carried out to identify each individual who attended the religious congregation or stayed in the building. “We are preparing the list of their contacts and of those they met. We are preparing the profile of each individual and sharing it with the State police concerned. Most of the people who attended the congregation went back either by bus or train,” said the officer. Notices served He added that they have served notices to all seven persons mentioned in the FIR to join the investigation. In a press release issued on Tuesday, the Tablighi Jamaat said that the ongoing programme at Nizamuddin markaz (centre) was discontinued immediately when the Prime Minister announced the ‘Janata Curfew’ for March 22. “However, due to the sudden cancellation of rail services across the country on March 21, 2020, a large group of visitors who had to depart by way of railways got stuck on the markaz premises,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tablighi-jamaat-office-bearers-wilfully-allowed-gathering-fir/article31243068.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW seeks details on lockdown in brothels||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday issued notice to the Delhi Police seeking information pertaining to the condition of women residing in GB Road. Citing lack of hygiene and poor living conditions in the area, the panel also sought details of whether social distancing was being practised there and the steps taken by the police to enforce the lockdown. In a statement issued, the DCW said, “The police administration has been questioned regarding the adherence of social distancing norms in G.B. Road during the lockdown and the provision of food and personal hygiene items to these women. The Delhi Police has also been asked specifically to inform the commission, about detailed steps taken to enforce the lockdown.” The DCW has asked the force to respond by April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcw-seeks-details-on-lockdown-in-brothels/article31243055.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU students allege assault by guards||The students and teachers of JNU on Thursday alleged that the university’s guards, in the guise of providing security during the lockdown, resorted to beating up students who were facing “genuine grievances” . The JNUSU said on March 31 and April 1, the guards assaulted students. “In the first case, the administration refused to provide shelter to a stranded woman student who pleaded that she was ready to go into isolation and have medical check-ups. In the second one, a student, who had complied with notified requirement of obtaining written permission of the warden to leave campus, was assaulted by guards at the main gate and is admitted at AIIMS,” the students said. JNU Registrar said: “It is highly unsafe that a handful of JNU students and teachers are violating the guidelines issued by the government...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-students-allege-assault-by-guards/article31243061.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Many workers in Mayapuri stay back for salaries||While many factory workers, who were staying in the jhuggis of Mayapuri Industrial Area, have already left for their hometowns, the others who stayed back are awaiting their salaries and hope to resume work once the lockdown ends on April 14. Shankar Ram from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, who works at an idol-making factory, said he did not get his monthly salary of Rs. 8,000. “I got Rs. 1,000 advance after which there was no word from the employer. On Wednesday, we were informed that we should go outside the factory on April 8 to collect the money,” he said. “I am not going to the village because the word around is that the factories will reopen on April 15,” he added. The jhuggi residents said since they don’t have any toilets nearby, they go to a park for the same but now that too has become a problem. “Civil Defence Officials with sticks in their hands are taking tours on bikes. They start harassing even when we go to the toilets. They don’t believe us,” said Prakash from Azamgarh, another worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/many-workers-in-mayapuri-stay-back-for-salaries/article31243063.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Person evacuated from Nizamuddin attempts to kill self||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the Delhi Police that one person evacuated from the Tabligh centre in Nizamuddin attempted to take own life at a city hospital on Wednesday. “Medical Superintendents of designated COVID-19 hospitals reported that patients, particularly those transferred from Markaz (centre), are creating law and order problem and commotion in hospitals which is becoming difficult for the hospital staff to handle,” Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government, Padmini Singla, said in a letter to Delhi Police Commissioner, S.N. Shrivastava. “In another incident two inmates quarantined in Narela DDA quarantine facility escaped and were later tracked down in Patparganj,” the letter said. She also requested Mr. Shrivastava to deploy adequate police force in all quarantine facilities and hospitals. A total of 2,346 people were evacuated from the centre and 536 of them were sent to hospitals and 1,810 were sent to quarantine facilities, according to the Delhi government. A large number of people had attended a religious congregation at the centre in mid-March and till now 108 people from the centre have been tested positive for COVID-19 and two of them have died so far just in Delhi alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/person-evacuated-from-nizamuddin-attempts-to-kill-self/article31243067.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police stops buses with foreign tourists amid lockdown||Two buses carrying “foreign tourists” were stopped by the Delhi traffic police at the India Gate traffic signal on Thursday afternoon amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, Swaraj Express television news channel reported. An official of the Delhi Police told The Hindu that the movement of the buses ferrying foreign tourists had “special permission” from the Ministry of External Affairs to “evacuate” tourists stranded in different parts of the country by the lockdown enforced by authorities to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The buses were stopped but allowed to go after the driver and tour manager produced requisite permission from MEA and other concerned authorities,” added the police official, speaking on condition of anonymity. The buses were reportedly heading towards Indira Gandhi International Airport from Dehradun, the news channel reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-stops-buses-with-foreign-tourists-amid-lockdown/article31243060.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Amanatullah attacks Naqvi, Kerala Guv. over COVID-19 pandemic||AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan on Thursday attacked Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, saying “people like them have made even COVID-19 a Muslim”. “Brokers like Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi a nd Arif Mohammad Khan explain what happens in Markaz Nizamuddin [a centre run by Tablighi Jamaat] and who is maulana Saad Saheb, a senior citizen, who works as a prophet of peace and love all over the world. People like these have made even corona a Muslim,” Mr. Khan said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amanatullah-attacks-naqvi-kerala-guv-over-covid-19-pandemic/article31243064.ece
03 April 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 count in M.P. breaches 100 mark, two deaths reported||A man and a woman from Indore died of COVID-19 on Thursday morning, taking the toll owing to the illness to five in the city. Whereas the State reported nine new cases during the day, said Health Principal Secretary Pallavi Jain Govil. Late night, Bhopal reported four new cases. The State count stands at 111. Among the new cases reported on Thursday, seven are from Indore and two from Morena, according to the State Health bulletin. This takes the count in Indore to 82. “There has been an improvement in the condition of 30 patients, and they’ll be in a condition to be discharged within a day or two when their second test turns out to be negative,” she said, adding that one patient was in a critical condition and under observation. The Bhopal administration said four members of the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive. While one person is from the Ivory Coast, two are from Myanmar and one from Odisha. Indore reported 12 new cases on Wednesday night, according to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore.  No travel history Among the deceased, the man, aged 54, and the woman, 65, didn’t have a contact or a travel history. While no new patient from Indore has a travel history, just one case has had a confirmed contact with an infected person even as health officials scramble to zero in on the source in Indore. Eight patients in the State have succumbed to the illness so far. Among the new cases, three men aged 21, 22 and 44 live at the same address in Tanzim Nagar as the nine persons, including two toddlers, who tested positive for the disease on Tuesday night. “The deceased woman had co morbidities of diabetes and hypothyroidism. She had a clinical history of cough, fever and weakness,” said Rahul Rokade of the college. A resident of Moti Tabela, the man died at 10 a.m. on Thursday and had breathlessness for the past two and fever for 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-count-in-mp-breaches-100-mark-two-deaths-reported/article31243048.ece
03 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||No migrants issue in Punjab: CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that the State did not have a migrants issue in the light of the COVID-19 lockdown, as he had directed the industry to absorb all such labourers stranded in the State. “Extensive arrangements had been made by the State government to provide shelter and food to the migrant labourers, who could not leave the State in view the nationwide restrictions and sealing of borders,” said Capt. Amarinder during a Congress Working Committee meeting, presided by party president Sonia Gandhi and held through videoconferencing. In response to the concern expressed by Ms. Gandhi on the arrangements for farmers in view of the onset of the harvesting season, the Chief Minister said all arrangements were being made to ensure smooth operations, with strict maintenance of social distancing protocols in the Mandis. The State had also urged the central government to incentivise farmers to go in for staggered transportation of the grain to the mandis. Briefing the party chief about the current situation in Punjab, which has a large NRI population, the Chief Minister said the State had so far been able to contain the spread of the disease through intensive tracing and surveillance.The Punjab government was also preparing to deal with the eventuality of the disease acquiring larger epidemic proportions by May or June. The Chief Minister also told the CWC that it was not receiving its GST share from the Centre, which was causing serious financial problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-migrants-issue-in-punjab-cm/article31243054.ece
03 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Policemen assaulted in U.P. village||Two policemen, including a sub-inspector, were injured in Morna village of Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday evening when they went to enforce the lockdown. The injured have been admitted to a Meerut hospital, police said. Five persons, including two women and a former pradhan, have been arrested. According to official sources, a team from the Bhopa police station went to Karhera road near Morna village where some villagers had assembled.  Stone-pelting When the police tried to disperse them, they pelted stones at the policemen in which Sub-Inspector Lekhraj Singh and constable Ravi Kumar were injured. A local source said it has been difficult to enforce lockdown in rural areas of Muzaffarnagar. “The incident happened near the residence of former pradhan Nahar Singh. His family members were standing on the road. When the police to enforce the lockdown, an argument ensued, leading to the attack on the policemen,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/policemen-assaulted-in-up-village/article31243043.ece
03 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU circular over Tablighi Jamaat issue||As a countrywide search for persons who participated in the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi is on, Aligarh Muslim University has issued a circular advising those who participated in the Ijtima to present themselves for testing. In a separate incident, a rumour spread that a person was found infected with COVID-19 in Aligarh. Sources in Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital said a person from Akrabad area of the district who participated in the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi was tested. “The cumulative report of Aligarh man is negative, it will be tested again after 24 hours,” a university spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amu-circular-over-tablighi-jamaat-issue/article31243046.ece
03 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Pandemic may be last nail in Assam industrial town’s coffin||The COVID-19 pandemic could be the last nail in the coffin of an Assam industrial town the British had renamed nine decades ago because of confusion with Noakhali in Bangladesh. Residents fear Jagiroad, hit by a “business-stealing highway” and death of the industrial units, could soon become a ghost town after three locals out of 16 in Assam tested COVID-19 positive, forcing the local authorities to seal the town and adjoining the villages. Jagiroad, about 60 km east of Guwahati, grew up as an industrial centre after the public-sector Assam Spun Silk Mill was set up in 1962. A cooperative jute mill, a polyester spinning mill and a cooperative sugar mill followed before Hindustan Paper Corporation’s Nagaon Paper Mill became the town’s marque plant in 1985. The industrial clout made Jagiroad a popular pit stop for travellers between Guwahati and Kaziranga National Park and beyond in the Northeast. Rows of restaurants and dhabas along National Highway 37 barely managed to cater to the demand. The scenario began changing as the industrial units closed one after the other because of poor management, issues of raw material and marketing. The transformation of the highway into a expressway enabling high-speed travel to next destination Nagaon made many eateries close shop. “Jagiroad derived its name from Jagi village about 9 km away, where the first school of Morigaon district was established in 1933. But the place used to be called Naukhola until the British rulers changed the name to Jagiroad in the 1930s because of confusion,” said Tarun Talukdar, a cultural activist and retired principal of Jagi Higher Secondary College. The British, he added, were forced to rename the place as cargo destined for Noakhali, now in Bangladesh, would at times reach Naukhola and vice versa. Jagiroad had earned the tag of Northeast’s dried fish hub before the industries came. Munin Borthakur, who set up the first wholesale dried fish business in the mid-1950s, said long-term shutdowns including those during the Assam Agitation of 1979-1985 hardly impacted the market.  ‘Backbone broken’ “We understand this lockdown is to keep the deadly virus from infecting us. But it has already come closer home, and getting over the stigma would take a long time for traders, many of whose backbones had already been broken by dipping commercial graph of the town,” Mr Borthakur told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pandemic-may-be-last-nail-in-assam-industrial-towns-coffin/article31243052.ece
03 April 2020||JAIPUR,||One virus death in Rajasthan||An 85-year-old man from Alwar, who had tested COVID-19 positive and was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here two days ago, died on Thursday. Thirteen more cases of patients infected with COVID-19, including three who attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, were detected, taking the tally in Rajasthan to 115. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said the octogenarian man from Alwar was suffering from brain haemorrhage when he was admitted to S.M.S. Hospital on Tuesday evening. “He was a known case of brain stroke paralysis,” he said. This is the third death related to the virus infection in the State, though the heath officials maintain that the deceased had succumbed to complicated medical conditions caused by other illnesses. Two COVID-19 positive persons earlier died in Bhilwara, while one of them was in a state of coma even when he tested positive. Earlier, an Italian tourist — who was the first confirmed COVID-19 patient in the State — died of heart failure in a private hospital here after he had recovered from the infection with treatment. Seven of the cases reported on Thursday were from the Ramganj area in the curfew-bound Walled City of Jaipur, which has become a hotspot for the COVID-19 cases. Two were from Jodhpur and one each was from Jhunjhunu, Dholpur, Bharatpur and Udaipur, according to the Health Department. The Walled City in Jaipur remained completely sealed for the second consecutive day, as the administration announced that it was an important measure to break the chain of virus transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-virus-death-in-rajasthan/article31243050.ece
03 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Bail pleas not urgent during lockdown: HC||The bail applications, appeals under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the revisions and appeals with applications for suspension of sentence cannot be considered as the matters of extreme urgency when a lockdown was operative in the country to control the COVID-19 pandemic, the Rajasthan High Court has ruled. The court directed the Registry to not list these applications in the category of “extremely urgent matters” during the lockdown period, while hearing the second bail application of an accused in a criminal matter. All such applications should be listed after the withdrawal of lockdown order , the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bail-pleas-not-urgent-during-lockdown-hc/article31243045.ece
03 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Haryana Roadways bus driver allegedly beaten by U.P. police||A Haryana Roadways bus driver, who was asked to drop migrants returning home during the lockdown against COVID-19, was allegedly thrashed by Uttar Pradesh police on the outskirts of Lucknow for merely asking directions. Khurshid Ahmed was taking the migrants to the eastern district of Gorakhpur after picking them up in Ghaziabad, where they had assembled in large numbers. He had driven to Ghaziabad and to Gorakhpur from the Palwal bus depot in Haryana on the instructions of the local administration. After reaching Lucknow via Bareilly around midnight on March 30, Mr. Ahmed stopped near the Barabanki Chowk to confirm from the policemen stationed there if he was on the correct route to Gorakhpur. “I didn’t know the way, so I had to ask around. This is not our usual route,” he told The Hindu on phone. ‘Hit with lathis’ Mr. Ahmed said that when he asked the policemen about the route to Gorakhpur, he was abused and accused of violating the lockdown. When he raised an objection and pointed out that he had driven on the orders of the government, he alleged, a policeman asked him to step down and started hitting him, while another policemen who was behind him hit him on his back with a lathi. Mr. Ahmed said he was kicked and hit with lathis by several policemen, including an inspector. “After that, the Inspector asked me to get lost and when I started climbing into the bus, they hit me again from behind. I fell on the ground. They kicked me while I was lying on the ground and one of them hit me once again when I tried to climb back into the bus.” The driver stated that he struggled to sit properly while driving to Gorakhpur and then back to Palwal due to the pain and swelling, mostly in the lower part of his body especially hamstrings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-roadways-bus-driver-allegedly-beaten-by-up-police/article31243044.ece
03 April 2020||Madrid,||Global virus cases near a million as Spain sees record deaths||Confirmed coronavirus cases approached 1 million around the world on Thursday as Europe reeled from the pandemic and the U.S. reported record numbers of people out of work. The virus claimed thousands more lives in its relentless march across the globe, including nearly 1,000 new deaths in Spain, despite more than half of the planet being subjected to some form of lockdown. And it continued to wreak havoc on the global economy, with the U.S. announcing that another 6.65 million workers filed for unemployment benefits last week and Spain reporting its biggest monthly increase in jobless claims on record. Since emerging in China in December, COVID-19 has infected 9,81,221 people — including at least 5,00,000 in Europe — and claimed more than 50,000 lives.   Europe has been at the centre of the crisis, with at least 34,000 now dead, but there have been signs the epidemic could be approaching its peak. Spain said on Thursday it had suffered a record 950 deaths in 24 hours, bringing its total number of fatalities to 10,003. The number of confirmed Spanish cases passed the 1,10,000 mark, the government said, although the rates of both new infections and deaths continued a downward trend. “The data show the curve has stabilised” and the epidemic has entered a “slowdown” phase, Health Minister Salvador Illa said. Italy has also seen its infection rates slow and eyes will now be on Britain and France, which both reported their highest daily death tolls on Wednesday.   The U.S., which now accounts for almost a quarter of reported global infections, saw its death toll pass 5,000 by the early hours of Thursday, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Among the latest known fatalities was a six-week-old baby who was taken to a Connecticut hospital late last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/global-virus-cases-near-a-million-as-spain-sees-record-deaths/article31242680.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Wuhan initially downplayed crisis’||On December 31, Wuhan announced an outbreak of viral pneumonia. Until January 19, authorities would maintain there was no proof of human-to-human transmission but the following day, China’s government would reveal otherwise. Decisions taken during those vital 21 days would come to affect the lives of millions. Studies suggest while China’s January 23 lockdown of 50 million people averted an additional 7,00,000 cases outside Wuhan, interventions one week and three weeks earlier may have brought down the number by 66% and 95%, respectively. In an interview, Dali Yang, Professor of political science at the University of Chicago and a leading expert on China’s political system, explains how the epidemic slipped through the many layers of China’s system during those 21 days. Edited excerpts:  We now know by end-December, many doctors in Wuhan were aware of a serious outbreak which some suspected was contagious, and by December 31, they had alerted the Wuhan Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). What should have happened next? First, we should understand the structure of the system. Every province, city and even district has its own CDC, but these are subordinate to the health commission at every level so they do not directly report to the national level. They belong to the municipal or provincial health administrations. The Wuhan CDC’s December 31 statement [saying no proof of human-to-human transmission] was clearly a massive error. The biggest error, however, was the crackdown from that day telling doctors they could not speak about what was happening. It appears from the start, everything was done to downplay the severity of the situation rather than say, lets err on the side of caution in terms of the contagiousness. At what level would the decision have been made to play it down? The [national] CDC people suspected something was much worse and reported it to the WHO the same day through the National Health Commission, which was the right protocol. They also shared the genetic sequence with the world relatively soon [by January 12]. But at the same time in Wuhan, consistently for so many days, they were saying this is not a serious issue. There were zero cases reported all the way until January 16. The Wuhan municipal leadership instituted the new criteria to keep the numbers down. How relevant was the fact that Wuhan was hosting its annual Party Congress sessions from January 6 to 17? This was crucially important. This system has gotten used to the idea that you cannot allow anything to upset the political atmosphere during those times. What would have been the role of the national leadership in this time? We know the national authorities sent a team to Wuhan on December 31, which stayed for several days. I think they have emphasised the local authorities are the primary unit of responsibility, so they claim they deferred to the provincial leadership. There is also an issue in terms of ranking. Even if you send the Health Minister, he cannot simply order the provincial leader. The nature of the Chinese system is you tend to have shirking of responsibility, but when things get big, it’s capable of decisive action, as in this case they did by locking down a city with 9 million people. That’s not a decision that most other countries could have taken, which is why the Chinese are actually congratulating themselves, but the problem is by the time they locked it down 5 million people had left. Does the fact that President Xi went to Myanmar on January 17 and 18 tell us something about how aware Beijing was? Until the middle of January, there were eminent people in the public health community who were looking at zero new cases being reported and thinking that with another wave of zero cases, we would be done! I do think people fell for what was being reported out of Wuhan. China’s CDC has internationally respected scientists. What explains why they were unable to react earlier?  When China did respond nationally [after January 20], they were able to get a lot of people who dealt with SARS involved and that mattered hugely in their response. Only it was too late for the world. If they had acted earlier, say by January 7, it may have been an entirely different equation. The most important lesson is there has to be more transparency and an open environment for sharing and discussion. It was remarkable how you saw doctors were cowed into not speaking. It became almost like a group-think situation where even when everyone saw it was contagious, yet there was no public airing. No one was willing to shout this was contagious, we have to take action in Wuhan. And that, to me, is just tragic.  If China had acted earlier, say by January 7, it may have been an entirely different equation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wuhan-initially-downplayed-crisis/article31242690.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No foreign-backed terror in Afghanistan’||Externally supported terrorism does not exist in Afghanistan, the Taliban said on Wednesday and urged India to ensure welfare of its Muslim community. Spokesman of the Taliban’s Political Office, Suhail Shaheen, said the main problem of Afghanistan is foreign occupation and suggested India should not be at “loggerheads” with real Afghan aspirations. “There is no externally sponsored terrorism. There are, on the one side, the Afghan people, a liberation force in the shape of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), struggling for liberation of the country. On the other side, there are the invading forces. It is more appropriate for India, whose people also have a shining history of struggle from Britain, not to give the name of terrorism to indigenous liberation movements,” said Mr. Shaheen in an online interaction with The Hindu . Following the February 29 peace agreement with the U.S., the Taliban has been referring to itself as the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. Taliban’s pronouncements on a set of long held Indian positions came a day after the Ministry of External Affairs reiterated and hinted at Pakistan’s hand in fomenting terrorism inside Afghanistan and approved the choice of the team from the side of President Ashraf Ghani’s government for the intra-Afghan negotiation. “India has consistently supported an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process for enduring peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan... which would lead to a peaceful and stable future for Afghanistan free from the scourge of externally sponsored terrorism,” the Ministry of External Affairs said on April 1. New starting point The Taliban, however, clarified that it disagrees with some points in the Indian statement especially with the notion of “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process” that India has supported since the 1980s. “There are sentences in this statement, we do not agree with. Afghan-led and Afghan-owned which in your opinion means Kabul administration-led and owned. On the basis of the agreement signed with the U.S., we talk to all Afghan sides and will hold intra-Afghan negotiations. In principle, they (talks) are not led or owned by Kabul,” said Mr. Shaheen. Mr. Shaheen pointed out that the new starting point of the intra-Afghan peace talk is the U.S.-Taliban peace agreement. “I think it is neither in India’s interest to remain at loggerheads with the genuine aspirations of Afghan people.” The comments from the Taliban came after at least 25 persons, mostly Sikh citizens of Afghanistan including an Indian, were killed in a terror attack in Kabul on March 25 which was claimed by the Islamic State. Mr. Shaheen said the Afghan Taliban disapproves of such attacks and will protect all communities of Afghanistan and urged the government of India to treat the Indian Muslim community without discrimination. “We are committed to minorities’ rights and have strongly condemned the recent attack by Daesh (IS) on a Sikh minority temple. We also urge India to protect the rights of its Muslim minority. They are Indian citizens and your people.”  We are committed to minorities’ rights and have condemned the attack on a Sikh temple||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-foreign-backed-terror-in-afghanistan/article31242692.ece
03 April 2020||Chennai,||Wealthy, young, educated more likely to use Net during lockdown||Those who are wealthier, younger, and more educated are likely to stay more connected during the pandemic as countries institute various degrees of lockdown, new analysis released by the Pew Research Centre suggest. The results are particularly significant as Internet and smartphone usage is more important than ever now. Surprisingly, India is an outlier compared to other emerging economies for its low proportion of Internet usage/smartphone ownership — 38% relative to, say, Kenya (48%) and Lebanon (89%). China and the countries in India’s South Asian neighbourhood are not included in the list of 34 surveyed countries. In more than 32 of the surveyed countries, at least half the population reported using the Internet occasionally or owning a smartphone. South Korea had the highest percentage of Internet users at 98%, while eight in 10 in Italy had access. Age divide Unsurprisingly, younger people in all 34 countries reported greater Internet usage than older people. Indonesia showed the biggest age-wise variation, with 89% of 18-29 year-olds reporting Internet usage or smartphone ownership compared to 24% of 50+ year-olds. Disparities are greater in emerging economies. For many countries, the differences in usage are negligible, if existent, between the 30-49 age group and the 18-29 age group. In India, 57% of 18-29 year-olds use the Internet or a smartphone compared to just 18% of 50+ year-olds. Twenty-three percent of those with ‘lower education’ used the Internet in India compared to 69% of those with ‘higher education’. In Israel, Canada, the U.K., Australia, Sweden, the Netherlands and South Korea, the difference in usage between the two demographics was less than 10%. Across the set of 34 countries, those with incomes higher than the national median are more likely to report that they use the Internet than those with incomes below the median. For India these numbers are 51% and 27% respectively. There is a less than 10 point difference between the two income groups in only Australia, Spain, the Netherlands and South Korea. Phone ownership In India, 32% reported owing any mobile phone, 35% reported owning a mobile phone that isn’t a smartphone, while 32% reported owning a smartphone. South Korea had 100% mobile phone penetration, with 97% saying they owned a smartphone. The extent of smartphone ownership in a country is positively correlated with higher GDP per capita as per the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wealthy-young-educated-more-likely-to-use-net-during-lockdown/article31242693.ece
03 April 2020||Washington,||Amid virus threat, Biden sidelined by omnipresent Trump||One month on from historically reclaiming Democratic presidential frontrunner status, Joe Biden is in physical and political isolation, basement-bound and largely unheard as Donald Trump commands Americans’ attention with his coronavirus response. It has been an awkward sidelining of an extraordinary comeback story. After nearly self-imploding in the first three state contests in February, former Vice-President Biden turned his campaign around, winning the lion’s share of the next 25 primaries to become the presumptive nominee over his rival Bernie Sanders. Suddenly, Mr. Biden is struggling for attention during what would normally be a critical, high-profile point in a campaign. In a situation unheard of in modern American politics, several States have postponed their primaries, mass rallies are paused and all in-person campaigning has ground to a halt. Coronavirus is the inescapable news headline, and the President’s megaphone during this ongoing tragedy is impossible to eclipse. “Crises are fundamentally presidential moments, and given that, Biden just doesn’t have the capacity to truly break in,” Josh Pacek, a University of Michigan Professor and expert on political communication, told AFP by phone about the campaign ahead. Mr. Trump, of course, is taking full advantage. Daily White House briefings with him and his coronavirus task force now often roll past 90 minutes, with Mr. Trump spending significant chunks of time on his personal and administrative achievements. Basement broadcast Mr. Biden, by contrast, is broadcasting from his basement, clamouring for air time even while acknowledging he is a former insider with no knowledge of current operations or access to internal administration reports. He accuses Mr. Trump of being “very slow to act” and downplaying the gravity of the crisis for weeks. U.S. networks are giving Mr.Biden, 77, some exposure, and he strives to present himself as a leader with greater presidential bearing than Mr. Trump. But even if Wisconsin defies mounting criticism and holds its primary on April 7 as scheduled, Mr. Biden would be deprived of his greatest political assets: his warm, empathetic manner and a blue-collar “here’s-the-deal” delivery during face-to-face contact with voters. “It doesn’t worry me,” Mr. Biden told CNN on Tuesday about the campaign moving online. “I’m sitting in my basement, there’s a television studio set up down here,” he said. “That’s just going to have to do.” Mr. Trump, meanwhile, has dominated the airwaves. His job approval rating, underwater for years, has ticked up in the past 10 days, a common phenomenon for U.S. Presidents in the grips of a crisis. But Mr. Pacek said the “rally ‘round the flag effect” for Mr. Trump will be fleeting. He pointed to George Bush’s job approval skyrocketing to 89% in early 1991 during the Gulf War. The Republican lost re-election 20 months later. By comparison, Mr. Trump’s approval climbing only past 50% during an all-hands-on-deck emergency “portends somewhat poorly” for the President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-virus-threat-biden-sidelined-by-omnipresent-trump/article31242683.ece
03 April 2020||Tehran,||Iran, U.S. heat up war of words despite pandemic||Iran said on Thursday it “only acts in self-defence” after President Donald Trump warned it against attacks on U.S. troops in Iraq, as a new war of words heated up despite the pandemic. Tensions between the arch-foes flared in Iraq where the U.S. deployed Patriot air defence missiles, prompting Iran to demand a withdrawal.  Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted that “unlike the U.S. —which surreptitiously lies, cheats & assassinates — Iran only acts in self-defence”. “Don’t be misled by usual warmongers, AGAIN,” he said, addressing Mr. Trump. “Iran starts no wars but teaches lessons to those who do,” he added. Mr. Trump warned Iran on Wednesday that it would pay a “heavy price” in the event of further attacks on U.S. troops. He tweeted that “upon information and belief, Iran or its proxies are planning a sneak attack on U.S. troops and/or assets in Iraq”. In response, Mr. Zarif tweeted that “Iran has FRIENDS: No one can have MILLIONS of ‘proxies’”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-us-heat-up-war-of-words-despite-pandemic/article31242685.ece
03 April 2020||Majene,||Indonesia frees 18,000 inmates||Indonesia has released 18,000 inmates in a bid to stop the novel coronavirus from rampaging through its notoriously overcrowded prison system. The mass release comes days after the country announced that it would free more than 30,000 inmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indonesia-frees-18000-inmates/article31242681.ece
03 April 2020||Tehran,||Iran death toll rises to 3,160||Iran on Thursday reported 124 new deaths, raising its total to 3,160. At least 3,111 new infections were reported over the past 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 50,468. Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani tested positive for COVID-19, state television reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-death-toll-rises-to-3160/article31242686.ece
03 April 2020||Jerusalem,||Netanyahu in quarantine||Israeli Health Minister Yaakov Litzman, a leading member of the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community, has tested positive for COVID-19, forcing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to enter precautionary quarantine, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/netanyahu-in-quarantine/article31242687.ece
03 April 2020||Washington,||Trump resists national shutdown||President Donald Trump is resisting calls to issue a national stay-at-home order to stem the spread of the new coronavirus despite his administration’s projections that tens of thousands of Americans are likely to be killed by the disease. One by one, though, States are increasingly pushing shutdown orders of their own. Mr. Trump said on Wednesday he wants to give Governors’ “flexibility” on whether a stay-at-home policy is the best option for their constituents but acknowledged that he’s looking at limiting air and rail travel between hot spots within the U.S. “There are some states that are different,” he said. “There are some states that don’t have much of a problem.” Surgeon General Jerome Adams said the nation’s federalist system leaves much of the authority on how to properly respond to catastrophes to State governors and local officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-resists-national-shutdown/article31242688.ece
03 April 2020||New York,||New York, April 2, 2020 (AFP) -||Jazz great Ellis Marsalis died on Wednesday at the age of 85 after contracting the coronavirus, his son Branford said. The acclaimed American pianist and teacher — who featured on dozens of records over a musical career spanning several decades — was the father of trumpeter Wynton and saxophonist Branford. Born in New Orleans —the epicenter of the jazz world — in November 1934, Mr. Ellis recorded with heavyweights such as Cannonball and Nat Adderley, Marcus Roberts and Courtney Pine. Mr. Ellis was inducted into The Louisiana Music Hall of Fame in 2018.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-york-april-2-2020-afp/article31242695.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine and the law||It was about 196 years ago (1824) that the U.S. Supreme Court, in an en banc sitting led by Chief Justice John Marshall, affirmed the powers of the state to enact quarantine laws and impose health regulations. The world has since faced many health emergencies caused by dangerous diseases. This virus crisis is also not new. Quarantine is considered the oldest mechanism to reduce the rapid spread of bacterial infections and viral onslaughts. It has been legally sanctioned by all jurisdictions in the world for the maintenance of public health and to control the transmission of diseases. Since ancient times, societies have practised isolation, and imposed a ban on travel or transport and resorted to maritime quarantine of persons. These measures were often forcibly enforced to prevent or reduce the wider spread of disease and to safeguard the health of citizens not yet exposed to such diseases. In the list of diseases that may require quarantine, issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome that can go on to become pandemic has been recently added to the existing ones — cholera, diphtheria, infectious tuberculosis, plague, smallpox, yellow fever and viral hemorrhagic fever. It shows that quarantine is a medically accepted mode to reduce community transmission. However, a constructive alternative method of treating patients exposed to infectious diseases is the imperative need in the arena of public health. ‘Trentino’ to quarantine The first law on medical isolation was passed by the Great Council in 1377, when the plague was rapidly ruining European countries. Detention for medical reasons was justified and disobedience made a punishable offence. The law prescribed isolation for 30 days, called a ‘ trentino ’. Subsequently, many countries adopted similar laws to protect the people. When the duration of isolation was enhanced to 40 days, the name also changed to ‘quarantine’ by adopting the Latin quadraginta , which referred to a 40-day detention placed on ships. In common parlance, ‘quarantine’ and ‘isolation’ are used interchangeably, but they convey two different meanings and are two different mechanisms in public health practice. Quarantine is imposed to separate and restrict the movement of persons, who may have been exposed to infectious disease, but not yet known to be ill. But, isolation is a complete separation from others of a person known or reasonably believed to be infected with communicable diseases. The current COVID-19 crisis, with its closure of shops, academic institutions and postponement of public examinations, has put the people in a de facto quarantine. Nonetheless, the question whether a public authority or state can promulgate an order for quarantine is a legal issue. When an employee of the World Wildlife Federation was diagnosed with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) in 1990, he was terminated from service and detained for 64 days in quarantine-like isolation under Goa Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1957 (GPH). The Bombay High Court (1990) felt that solitary detention was a serious infringement of basic human rights guaranteed to the individual, but held that under unusual situations and exceptional exigencies, such isolated detentions are justifiable for the cause of public health. Such isolation, undoubtedly, has several serious consequences. It is an invasion upon the liberty of a person. It can affect a person very adversely in many matters, including economic condition. But in matters involving a threat to the health of the community, individual rights have to be balanced with public interest. In fact, individual liberty and public health are not opposed to each other but are well in accord. The reason assigned by the High Court to uphold the quarantine was that even if there was a conflict between the right of an individual and public interest, the former must yield to the latter. In 2014, Kaci Hickox, a nurse and health worker who voluntarily rendered service to Ebola patients and returned to New Jersey, was quarantined in the U.S.. It was opposed by her peers serving in public health. But the dreadful consequences of the disease, and the possibility of its spreading at an alarming rate, made the forcible isolation rational and reasonable. In India, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, a law of colonial vintage, empowers the state to take special measures, including inspection of passengers, segregation of people and other special steps for the better prevention of the spread of dangerous diseases. It was amended in 1956 to confer powers upon the Central government to prescribe regulations or impose restrictions in the whole or any parts of India to control and prevent the outbreak of hazardous diseases. Quarantine is not an alien concept or strange action and it has been invoked several times during the bizarre situations caused by the cholera, smallpox, plague and other diseases in India. Judicial review The Director of World Health Organization (WHO) on March 30 determined that the outbreak of COVID-19 constitutes a public health emergency of international concern and issued interim guidance for quarantines of individuals. The guidance permitted the restriction of activities by separation of persons who are not ill, but who may have been exposed to an infectious disease within the legal framework of the International Health Regulations (2005). It also distinguished quarantine from isolation, which is the separation of ill or infected persons from others, so as to prevent this spread of infection or contamination. As per the WHO guidelines, possible quarantine settings are: hotels or dormitories and well-ventilated single rooms or homes, where a distance of at least one metre can be maintained from other members. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S., in its order on quarantine, expressly made it clear (Rule 9) that the people whose right is affected by an order of quarantine by a public health authority have the right to seek judicial review including the right to habeas corpus. Previously, it was in 1900, in response to an outbreak of bubonic plague, that an order of quarantine imposed on a Chinese citizen was struck down by the Federal Court in the U.S. because it was racially motivated and ill-suited to stop the outbreak. Therefore, courts have exercised their jurisdiction and powers to review and reverse quarantine orders. The Supreme Court suo motu took cognisance of fears over the COVID-19 pandemic affecting overcrowded prisons in India, on March 16. The difficulties in observing social distancing among prison inmates, where the occupancy rate is at 117.6%, were highlighted and directions issued to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in prisons in India. The setting up of isolation cells within prisons across Kerala, and the decision of the Tihar Jail authorities to screen new inmates and put them in different wards for three days are appreciated as reasonable preventive measures. Further, notices were issued to all States to deal with the present health crisis in prisons and juvenile observation homes. Quarantine rooms may have strong closed doors or may be water and air tight compartments, but the rays of justice from the courtrooms have the powers to intrude in them. Of course, under the sun every object is subject to judicial review and quarantine orders are not exempted from it. The author is the District Judge, serving in the special court for CBI cases in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/quarantine-and-the-law/article31242670.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Do OTT platforms provide more space for sociopolitical content?||With India under a lockdown, and with museums, movie theaters, malls, restaurants and bars closed, people now spend a lot of time watching films and shows on OTT (Over The Top) platforms such as Hotstar, Netflix, and Amazon Prime Video. Over the last few years, with OTT platforms providing an opportunity to filmmakers and screenwriters to think and write differently, there has been a significant rise in content on these platforms. Anurag Kashyap and Vetrimaaran speak of why these platforms are liberating, and what the digital future looks like, in a conversation moderated by Radhika Santhanam . Edited excerpts:  Mr. Kashyap, you said once, “Digital platforms are giving me the freedom and the budget that they won’t give anyone else.” What kind of freedom do these platforms give you? Are you referring to the fact that there is no censorship on these platforms or do you mean freedom even in terms of the subjects you can explore? Anurag Kashyap:The kind of freedom I’m getting on OTT platforms is the kind of freedom that Vetri demands and takes [even otherwise] — he brings sociopolitical content into every film, which is alien to Hindi films. For the [theatre-going] audience, the moment anything becomes sociopolitical, they stay away from it. And it becomes increasingly difficult to find money for such films. For example, when I made Mukkabaaz, I could not find money for it for two years because of the subject and because of the rural... The actor was also [not mainstream]. But now I’m doing a new film for Netflix, Choked , which deals with sociopolitical content and has Roshan Mathew and Saiyami Kher. I am getting the right amount of money for it and I can say what I want to say. So, it’s not just about censorship; it’s about the multi-fold pressures [that come with theatrical films and don’t come with OTT]. First, there’s the producer who says there is no audience. Stars don’t want to do anything political because they want to keep safe. Your budget is cut down. Then because the film is not high-profile, I generally try to send it to some festival so that it gets some kind of a profile. With OTT platforms I don’t feel like I’m making something for TV, I’m just making my film. People are choosing to watch it on an OTT platform and I have the budget and freedom to do what I like. Mr. Vetrimaaran, you’ve often said that cinema is a dying art. Today, more people are watching cinema than ever before because of digital platforms. They also watch different kinds of cinema – Tamil, Malayalam, Korean, etc. These platforms also provide an opportunity to create different content. So, isn’t cinema thriving more than ever before and haven’t digital platforms, as a medium, been one of the reasons for that? Vetrimaaran:When I said cinema, I mentioned cinema in the theatre, experience-giving cinema. I did not mean cinema as a language or medium. That medium that you go and watch on, the big screen, that is a dying art. Because, if you see the last six-seven years, whatever made headlines in terms of big money in Hollywood was a superhero film. I don’t find any art in these films. Also, in the Indian scenario, you have a Baahubali doing big numbers, but how does it matter to a common man or his problems? So, the representation of the common man has been taken out of the theatre-going experience. You need a superstar or a superhero film to make people go to the theatres. But today a lot of people do go and watch films like Vada Chennai and Kaaka Muttai or Badhaai Ho and Article 15 . And Asuran was Dhanush’s top-grossing film. VM:Sometimes it happens. But predominantly it is more hero-driven. Also, for the kinds of films that I make, I have an actor like Dhanush to support me, which makes it easier for me. At any point, when I say, I have a story to say, he says, okay, I will back you, you do the film you want to do. And he has a considerably good market. I can have a good budget. And I’m able to do the film.  Asuran , I feel, if you take out all the sociopolitical factors in it, deep down you see a Baashha -like idea. So, that way after my first film, Asuran was the next film I made that centred on one particular character and the journey of that character. So, it was a hero film. All the other films are not typically hero films. So, I feel, the more the star value of the film or the more visually exciting the film, those are the films that predominantly make money and are backed by investors. If you want to make serious films, they have questions to ask you such as, how will I get back the money? Now, with the advent of OTT platforms, it is the golden era of the screenwriter. We have always been curtailed by writing for a two-and-a-half-hour film. I had five-and-a-half-hours of [script] for Vada Chennai . But I could only show 2 hours and 39 minutes. That is a major limitation. When it comes to OTT, you have the liberty to write as much as you can imagine and as much as the budget you can get allows. I’ve done a 30-minute film for Netflix; it’s part of an anthology. And when I made it, I realised how liberated Anurag must be feeling. I did not have any kind of pressure. When I’m editing for a theatrical film, I think every minute, how will the audience react to this scene, is the length enough, should I reduce it, add some more? I keep someone else in mind when I’m making a theatrical film. For this one I didn’t have anyone in mind; I just wanted to make a film. I wanted to bring out something and I did that without any pressure. I have never been as relaxed in an edit room as I was while making this. You spoke of investors. Is there any interference from these platforms when you pitch an idea to them? AK:I have never faced any interference. They always give you feedback, but they always leave it to you. It’s also something you earn over a period of time. So far, I have had a very good time. [For theatrical films], I have always faced prejudice from the distributors. They say people don’t want to watch what you’re doing. But I know that people do watch my films. The only difference is that people watch it later, whereas for a distributor, the first three days are what matter at the box office. Most of my audience is an educated, working audience and not those who line up on Fridays and Saturdays to watch a film the way people line up to watch a Salman Khan or Shah Rukh Khan film. My audience watches my films at their own time. What has happened with OTT is that my old films, like That Girl in Yellow Boots, got an audience much after they were released. It translates very well for me because I get direct feedback, which puts me in a much better space... Platforms let me be because they know that whether it’s my politics or it’s what I’m trying to say, people are responding to it, reacting to it and engaging with it. So, they let me be because they have data and all that. What kind of feedback do you get from people? AK:For example, with Ghost Stories , there was a bad backlash in India, but I had the freedom to do something I had never done before. The feedback that I got from the genre audience from around the world was very encouraging, constructive. This makes you better and sharper as a filmmaker. Mr. Vetrimaaran, why do you think the Tamil film industry’s foray into this has been slow? VM:When it comes to Tamil, the problem is marketing. The kind of stories I want to tell on OTT require a certain budget. But OTT platforms have a limited budget for a limited market like Tamil. The primary target for a Tamil original film or a series would be the Tamil audiences worldwide. And then they would be looking at other international viewership, so they have limited investments. Now they are opening up, coming up with some good budgets. I have been wanting to do the prequel to Vada Chennai as a series. I’ve been talking to a lot of people… they felt the budget was too much, now they’re able to give it. Are well-known actors more willing now to do digital content? AK:A lot of them are, not everyone. Actors who are having a good run in the box office are not ready to act in films or a series made for digital platforms. They are willing to produce it, but not willing to act in these yet. VM:This space is for women actors who have the potential to be stars in the box office industry as well, but they’re given more space here. For theatrical films, mostly you end up writing for men. Here I would like to write stories with more women characters — women with proper representation. Not every star wants to be in an original. They want to have a theatrical release and then they want to be in digital. Mr. Kashyap, what do you find fulfilling on these platforms in a way that the theatre experience doesn’t give you? And what do you find challenging? AK:The biggest problem I have faced as a filmmaker is that they don’t let me explore subjects that matter to me: sexuality, religion and politics. These are the three big nos for the cinema experience. But Netflix doesn’t shy away from that. Second, I can tell the whole story. I don’t have to censor it. I can tell a story for seven hours. If Sacred Games was a movie, it would have been about Nawaz [Nawazuddin Siddiqui] and Saif [Ali Khan], but on Netflix, I could flesh out characters like Bunty, Kukkoo and Subhadra. There is no difficulty, but the only aspiration it doesn’t cater to is that we all want to see things on the big screen. But that’s a choice we make. VM:For the liberty that’s given there, this is a small compromise. AK:In the U.S., Netflix films get a limited theatrical release. It doesn’t happen here — not because Netflix doesn’t want to do it but because exhibitors don’t want to support it. VM:If you have a bigger star in it, it may happen. Regarding subjects, I would like to explore the same topics, especially politics and policies. The anti-people policies, like what’s happening in Tamil Nadu, and how they affect the common man. What is the immediate future like in terms of content? VM:The theatrical experience is going to become more and more shallow and momentary [in terms of Tamil]: there will be 10 heroes and 25 directors to cater to the audience. And all the others will have to move to these platforms and start making films with the content that we want to discuss. The only problem is when you put it out in the theatre, the common man comes face-to- face with it. With OTT it’s a choice. It’s like going to a library and reading a book instead of reading a daily that gets delivered at home. We make films that we want the common man to watch, but it’ll take time to take it to him. That’s a small setback. He has to watch it on his mobile phone where he’d rather watch YouTube than Amazon or Netflix.  For theatrical films, mostly you end up writing for men. On OTT platforms I would like to write stories with more women characters. VETRIMAARAN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/do-ott-platforms-provide-more-space-for-sociopolitical-content/article31242675.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Making the private sector care for public health||As India enters the second week of a national lockdown imposed in response to COVID-19, it is still unclear how well prepared the healthcare system is in dealing with the pandemic. Given the resource constraints of both the Central and State governments, it is clear that government hospitals alone will not be able to manage the fallout. Moreover, even within the government system, tertiary care and public health are the weakest links.  A preparedness plan has to address all levels of care in terms of infrastructure, equipment, testing facilities and human resources in both the public and private sectors. However, so far, the Central and State governments have given little indication of bringing an increase in public expenditure on health. So, an already overburdened public health system will be unable to meet the increase in moderate and severe cases of COVID-19 that would require hospitalisation. While some individual private sector companies have come forward with offers of creating capacity and making it available to COVID-19 patients, there is a need for a comprehensive national policy to ensure that private healthcare capacity is made available to the public. Some States like Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have already roped in the private sector to provide free treatment. The government’s silence The governments at the Centre and in States have to take responsibility for providing universal health services free of charge and accessible to all. This will require governments to not just expand the capacity within the public sector, but also to tap into the available capacity in the private sector. Faced with a serious health emergency, the silence of the government on the expected role of the private sector is intriguing. The National Health Authority has recommended that the testing and treatment of COVID-19 be included in the PM-Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) but this proposal is still awaiting clearance. The governance of the health service system is clearly fragmented and has created anxiety among the public. There is lack of a visible central command, which should be created under the supervision of the Union Health Minister, aided by a team of experts. They should be tasked to make policies as and when required and communicate them to State governments, taking into account an evolving situation. There have been some tentative measures taken by States to allow individuals seeking testing for COVID-19 to access private laboratories at subsidised rates. At present, the government has put a cap on the cost at Rs. 4,500 per test, which is a burden for even a middle class patient. The poor will clearly have no access to this and the government itself does not have adequate facilities to meet the increasing demand. It is here that the government needs to ensure that there is no cost to the patient. At this point, and certainly before the lockdown is lifted, it is absolutely essential that adequate testing and quarantine facilities are created. The Central government has already taken over some private hotels to accommodate persons quarantined for COVID-19. One way of expanding such facilities would be for the government to ‘take over’ private corporate laboratories and hospitals for a limited period. A graduated approach to this is possible by asking tertiary private hospitals to create ICU facilities and isolation wards to care for the moderate and severe cases under the supervision of the government. The political directive for such a move needs to come from the Central government while ensuring that the Ministry of Health provides standard treatment protocols for health personnel. The Spanish parallel This may not be as impossible as it sounds. Consider the experience in Spain. The Spanish government issued an order bringing hospitals in the large private corporate sector under public control for a limited period. This tough decision was taken with the understanding that existing public healthcare facilities would not be able to cope with the sudden, if short-term, rise in COVID-19 cases. In Britain, given the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the health workforce in the National Health Service has been under a lot of pressure. British trade unions have demanded that the government make the 8,000 beds in 570 private hospitals in the country available. They have argued that while beds in private hospitals are lying empty, there is severe shortage of beds in the public hospitals. The unions have also been critical of the U.K. government decision to rent these beds at an exorbitant cost to the exchequer. In India, private corporate hospitals have, in the past, received government subsidies in various forms and it is now time to seek repayment from them. They are also well poised to provide specialised care and have the expertise and infrastructure to do so. So, why is it that the government does not deem it fit to bring them under public control? Does less government mean no accountability even amidst this humanitarian crisis? Is it that the overburdened public health service should be made to care for the rising number of needy patients, while most private hospitals remain reserved only those who can afford to pay? The government may argue that treatment for COVID-19 has been included under Ayushman Bharat, and this will take care of the poor. But, what about the large, differentiated middle class, many of whom are employees in the services sector? They do not have secure employment, nor do they have insurance cover. Crisis situations help reveal deeper realities to societies. Universal public healthcare is essential not only to curb outbreaks, but also to ensure crisis preparedness and the realisation of the promise of right to health. Rama V. Baru is Professor, Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-the-private-sector-care-for-public-health/article31242667.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe forests, safe people||The rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus across the world has focused attention on the seemingly invisible processes that help pathogens originally found in wild animals make the leap to humans. Diseases of animal origin such as Ebola, HIV, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, bird flu and swine flu have raised alarm over potential pandemics in recent years, and the COVID-19 pandemic has confirmed the worst fears of scientists. The contagion, thought to have originated in a wet market that kept live animals in Wuhan, China, points to many underlying factors: the destruction of forests and trapping or farming of wild species has brought these animals closer to humans, and the viruses they harbour find ready hosts in domestic animals, moving to humans. There is concern also about rising economic activity, such as road building and mining cutting through forests, bringing more people in close contact with animals. Another dimension is the global trade in wild species — in Wuhan, they reportedly ranged from wolf pups to rats, civets and foxes, among others — and their sale in markets along with domestic animals. The well-documented histories of the lethal Nipah and Hendra viruses, involving transfer from bats to pigs in the former, and bats to horses in the latter, underscore the value of maintaining viable ecosystems, and eliminating the need for wild bats to colonise human surroundings. Biodiversity in forests harmlessly retains dangerous viruses and other pathogens among a vast pool of wild animals, away from people. What this phenomenon makes clear is that governments should stop viewing undisturbed landscapes as an impediment to economic growth. As COVID-19 has proved, these short-term high growth trajectories can come to an abrupt halt with a pandemic. Such a terrible outcome could be witnessed again, potentially caused by reckless exploitation of the environment. In spite of repeated warnings of crippling pandemics waiting in the wings, governments paid little attention. Now, a novel virus that can move effortlessly from human to human has found a large reservoir of hosts in a globalised world. Unlike previous epidemics, the latest one has extracted a staggering toll, killing people, forcing a lockdown and causing economic devastation. This should serve as a dire warning to the government that hasty permissions granted for new roads, dams, mines and power projects in already enfeebled forests can unleash more scourges. It would do well to roll back its dilution of the environmental clearance system, strengthen it with a mandate to the States, and leave protected areas to scientific experts. There is mounting evidence that environmental protection confers health protection. Pristine forests with diverse species keep viruses virtually bottled up, out of man’s way. They should be left undisturbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/safe-forests-safe-people/article31242662.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Break from tradition||A yellow ball glides past the net, the players grunt, the grass twitches and under azure blue skies, the applause from the stands ranges from the muted to the ecstatic. Wimbledon is tennis at its best, and it remains the sport’s holy grail, blending history and nostalgia with a massive global fan base. There are the other Grand Slam Opens — French, U.S. and Australian — but Wimbledon towers above all. Geographically fused to London, Wimbledon’s appeal is truly universal. It is a feel-good genie let loose every year during the British summer, while cricket provides an echo from Lord’s and other grounds across England. Last year, while Wimbledon uncorked its magic at The Championships as it is formally called, the cricket World Cup raced towards its climax. It was a sporting high and life was good. But since then, much water has flowed down the Thames and humankind is at another point, struggling to cope with the coronavirus pandemic that brooks no borders, weakening bodies and even pausing the most elementary of courtesies — the good old handshake, as social distancing is the preventive norm. When life is in peril, indulgences vanish, albeit for a while, and close on the heels of the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics to next year, Wimbledon too bit the dust. The announcement on Wednesday evoked one word from Roger Federer: “devastated!” The denouement wasn’t a surprise and this perhaps is the new-normal where what is often taken for granted can no longer be presumed permanent. Still, this is heartbreak for the die-hards, who will be forced to discard their annual rituals specific to Wimbledon. The debates, about who is greater among Martina Navratilova, Steffi Graf and Serena Williams or reliving the fabled rivalries: Bjorn Borg and John McEnroe; Stefan Edberg and Boris Becker; Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi; and the current one among Federer, Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic, can wait. Wimbledon had even elevated strawberries and cream into a rarefied zone and those pink-paper reports on how many kilograms were consumed near the courts, will also have to wait for another year. This might sound trivial, but to the centre court faithful, this was tradition not to be messed with, just like the all-white attire that players donned and the courtesy of taking a bow when royalty turned up in the audience. With the French Open rescheduled from May to September and the US Open authorities insisting that the event will stick to its August start, tennis fans have some room for hope. Still, Federer will be on the cusp of 40 when Wimbledon resumes next year and Serena would be 39. Will the legends last till then? Only time will tell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/break-from-tradition/article31242661.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Looking east to contain COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s extraordinary decision to impose a nationwide lockdown for three weeks to contain COVID-19 is without precedent. Even at the peak of the outbreak — and lockdowns — in China, 600 million fewer people were confined to their homes. Overall, the decision is a welcome one, but it should have almost certainly been taken much earlier — even if the true fatality rate of SARS-CoV-2 turns out to be orders of magnitude smaller. An extreme restriction on population movement is not a silver bullet, however. Like border shutdowns, it can buy time to slow down the spread of the virus but not eliminate it altogether. To eliminate the virus, community transmission must be prevented. Key to such transmission prevention is (early) detection and, thereafter, aggressive and systematic quarantining. Given India’s slow start on the diagnostic and detection front, it is all the more urgent that the government ramp up its act on the isolation and quarantining front. Lessons from the successful prevention and containment strategies employed by South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and China are instructive here. Following the outbreak, each of the first four went their own way on border controls. While Singapore barred the entry of all visitors from mainland China, South Korea continued to receive 20,000 visitors from China even at the peak of the outbreak, limiting arrivals only from Hubei province and its capital Wuhan. Breaking the chain Yet all four countries did two things that were key to breaking the chain of transmission. First, each instituted a widespread and rigorous regime of early testing and contact tracing. South Korea has conducted 4,31,743 diagnostic tests. Each confirmed patient’s contacts were then exhaustively traced and offered free testing. This has been reflected in unusually low fatality rates. Second, all four deployed information and communication technology to trace contacts, keep track of aggregations of movement, and provide real-time notifications on virus spread. Taiwan set the bar here. After integrating its public health databases with border controls, household registry and the national identification system, it linked private mobile phones to the government’s epidemic control centre, enabling enforcement of quarantine. As a result, the rate of local transmission cases to imported infections is among the lowest in the world. The case of China may be more relevant to India given the somewhat similar capacity shortfalls, its forthwith sealing off of whole population centres and, most importantly, the fact that community transmission had already exploded before authorities had a firm handle on the spread. Quarantining was key in China. Makeshift hospitals, schools, hotels, etc. were re-purposed as quarantine centres on an industrial scale to house all but the most severe and critical cases (who were hospitalised). Suspected patients and close contacts were kept separately within these makeshift quarantine centres too. As a ‘Chinese wall’ was constructed between the infected and the uninfected, the chain of transmission began to be cut. A comparable patient classification system, with mild and asymptomatic cases confined to ‘residential treatment facilities’ was also employed by South Korea. Three lessons As India looks ahead, three lessons are key. First, the government must stay prepared to re-purpose existing facilities and massively scale up its quarantine square footage. Next, without detection and patient classification, there can be no intelligent quarantining; the government must use the interval to get its act together on testing. The tide in Wuhan was only turned after testing was expanded from the low hundreds in end-January to the several thousand by mid-February. Finally, it is time for India to avert its perennial Westward gaze. Many of the most innovative deployment of ideas and systems are being birthed right here to India’s east. Sourabh Gupta is a senior fellow at the Institute for China-America Studies in Washington, D.C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/looking-east-to-contain-covid-19/article31242676.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Limits to rugged individualism||As the global battle against COVID-19 progresses, it is beginning to reveal deep fault lines in the national psyches of countries that are facing the prospect of high infection rates. India has acted aggressively by shutting down international travel routes and imposing a nationwide lockdown, even if it has failed to contain the economic fallout of the it for millions of poor. China also implemented a harsh shutdown, initially of Wuhan and other areas of Hubei province and then more broadly. Italy, Spain and France, countries that have seen surges in infection cases that have not been witnessed anywhere else outside China, also implemented lockdown measures that were perceived as unavoidable even if draconian. Along with the U.K. to a certain extent, Brazil and Mexico, it is the U.S. that has most been an outlier to this global willingness of governments to undertake a forced implementation of social distancing norms through a lockdown on all but essential economic activities. Since COVID-19 started impacting the U.S. in January, President Donald Trump has swung between two contradictory messages: downplaying the risks of the virus hitting the American people and economy badly and hinting that they ought to self-regulate their collective and individual behaviour to slow its spread. To understand the possible rationale of an approach that seems to defy the logic of flattening the COVID-19 curve, it may be necessary to understand better the spirit of the rugged individualism that deeply underpins American society, economy and broader national psyche. It is that spirit that animates the visceral debates over the U.S. Constitution’s Second Amendment regarding the right to bear arms, to let people protect themselves against the tyranny of government. When, as the U.S. correspondent of this newspaper, I covered the intensely partisan 2010 debates over former President Barack Obama’s landmark healthcare reform policy, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), I saw how it was for many Americans the idea that the government could “mandate” anything, even enrolment in an insurance programme, that was more galling, even more than the idea that it was one political party or the other that was scoring points in Congress over the ensuing nastiness around the bill. Part of the problem that hobbled and seemed to prematurely age Mr. Obama through the struggle to get the ACA passed remains today — under the federalist system of the U.S., states still enjoy disproportionate powers that could, especially over local enforcement questions such as a lockdown, limit Washington’s options. The most worrying aspect, in terms of the U.S.’s ability to gain a measure of control over the proliferation of new COVID-19 cases, is that the limits to the power of the federal government to impose quarantines has been deeply institutionalised, including in law. For example, the President is not permitted to force any state Governor to order people to stay at home or to close non-essential businesses where multitudes might gather, including bars, restaurants, and theatres. Similarly, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does not have the authority to ban inter-state travel. In this backdrop it is possible that each U.S. state will only contemplate lockdown measures when its local administration deems the infection to have spiralled to a level where free choice over movement of persons can no longer be tolerated. For many across the country, that may be too late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/limits-to-rugged-individualism/article31242671.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||PM inaugurates State of Meghalaya||The autonomous hill State of Meghalaya was inaugurated by the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, here [Shillong]. The new State comprises Khasi, Jaintia and Garo Hills — with an area of 22,549 square kms. The population, according to the 1961 census, is about 7.69 lakhs. Meghalaya is the second hill State to be carved out of Assam, the first being Nagaland which came into being in December, 1963. Inaugurating the new State at a function before a gathering of about one lakh, the Prime Minister conveyed to the tribal people the greetings from the entire nation. The creation of the border State of Meghalaya, Mrs. Gandhi said, was a new constitutional experiment. She assured the people that whatever help the Centre could give would be forthcoming for their well-being. Making a particular reference to Shillong, Mrs. Gandhi said that “even if it costs more in terms of money and effort”, the planning and architecture of Shillong, as a joint capital of the two States, must be in harmony with its surroundings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pm-inaugurates-state-of-meghalaya/article31242678.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Enterprising players find the space to train||There is a saree drying over a clothesline which serves as the net. Yuki Bhambri volleys and jumps up for an imaginary overhead smash. The drill continues for a few minutes as Prateek Bhambri, a former National junior champion who coaches sister Prerna Bhambri, helps in Yuki’s training by throwing balls from a bucket. If that is the video doing the rounds on social media, cut to Ahmedabad, where Zeel Desai has her father Mehul doing the job of ball-thrower. In front of her home, over a garden bench that serves as the net, Zeel keeps hitting forehands and backhands. She also uses the terrace to hone her skills, using the wall as a net. Mehul said he was happy to keep his daughter occupied as she was getting bored at home. “I thought it could just freshen her up a bit, having a racquet in her hands. She also does fitness routines for an hour daily. Staying at home can control the number of coronavirus cases,” he said. Quick and proactive Australian coach Todd Clark, who has been guiding Zeel at the Ahmedabad Racquet Academy (ARA), said: “Even though a lockdown is inconvenient in India, the government’s action has been quick and proactive. “We have created an ARA WhatsApp group. Daily, we provide players fitness programmes and mental challenges which they have to complete. “Though everyone is at home, we are still creating a competitive atmosphere,” revealed Clark, who is based in Ahmedabad. Todd and Zeel were in Tunisia when the ITF cancelled the tournament, forcing everyone to fly home before the borders were sealed. Healthy trend With the International Tennis Federation (ITF) announcing that there would be no play till July 8, this is a healthy trend as the players are utilising the time on hand instead of worrying about things beyond their control. Many videos of enterprising tennis players, finding the space to stay healthy and active during the lockdown, are doing the rounds. In the Capital, coaches Sachin Singh and Chandra Bhushan have been sharing videos of their trainees doing physical training, yoga and wall practice. The tennis fraternity deserves full marks for adapting to the situation and making the best use of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/enterprising-players-find-the-space-to-train/article31242846.ece
03 April 2020||KOCHI,||Tokyo Olympic Games postponement an advantage for India: Herrmann||For almost the whole of last year, India’s preparations in athletics for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics seemed riddled with problems. Confirmation of these fears came at the 2019 Asian championships in Doha, where the country could win just two golds compared to eight at the Jakarta Asian Games just eight months earlier. Now, the move to postpone the Olympics to 2021 could see stars like javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and long jumper M. Sreeshankar emerge stronger, feels Volker Herrmann, the Athletics Federation of India’s High Performance Director. In good shape “Both of them were in very good shape, they could have come up with very good results this year. But they will be a year older and since they are very young, I believe they might be able to do even better in 2021,” said the German in a chat with The Hindu from Patiala. “We have a very young team, which I think is a huge plus. Hopefully, the pandemic will be over soon and we hope to conduct a few competitions by the end of September or October. I think they will start the international season by April or May next year. We have one year to prepare, so this postponement is actually an advantage for us,” he said. And, it’s not just the two top stars who stand to gain. “In the 400m group, we have Hima Das, Anjali Devi and Vismaya, we have some young boys like Amoj Jacob, A. Dharun and 400m hurdler Jabir... several of our athletes are actually below the age of 24-25, which means they have at least one Olympic cycle to show what they are capable of. “And Neeraj is not the only javelin thrower. We have Shivpal Yadav who is 25, we have Rohit Yadav who is 19.” “We have a very young 4x100m women’s team which has a chance to qualify for the Olympics and we have a couple of distance runners like Lili Das. The more experienced athletes are Poovamma and the men’s 400m runners Muhammed Anas and Arokia Rajiv and middle-distance runner Jinson Johnson. Apart from that, most of our athletes are young so they will not only have a chance to compete in 2021 but in 2024 as well,” he said. However, Herrmann felt that expecting an Olympic medal from Neeraj next year could put too much pressure on the youngster. Tough competition “Competition in javelin is very tough, there are a couple of throwers who are capable of going over 90m. Neeraj is definitely one of them. He has the potential. At the same time, it will also be his first Olympics. Often young athletes need to get one Olympic cycle. I don’t want to pressurise him. I think it’s better for him to aim for the final and if you’re among the top eight, anything can happen. But I don’t want to say that Neeraj will win a medal, that’s a bit too early. Of course, we will all be happy if he does. But I think that should be his goal for 2024,” Herrmann said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-olympic-games-postponement-an-advantage-for-india-herrmann/article31242797.ece
03 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Suma stresses on building muscle memory||Suma Shirur feels that competitive shooters can make the most of the self-isolation during the COVID-19-linked lockdown, by building up physically. The intention is to work on the muscle memory, so that it is easier to make the transition to shooting mode when the sport resumes after the prolonged pause. Now is the time “As of now, we don’t know when the situation will be under control and shooters can get back to training. It is also true that active shooters are so busy with competitions that time to work on other aspects is rarely available. “They now have the time to get the body ready, using various options available like wall holding,” noted the High Performance coach attached to the Indian junior rifle squad. The 10m air rifle world record-holder (2004 Asian Shooting) and Olympian (Athens 2004) explained that, in wall holding, a dot is marked on a wall at a certain height. The weapon is held as close as possible, bringing into focus every part of the body used in shooting action, like a simulation exercise. Useful tool “Wall holding builds core muscles which come into use during actual shooting. Even in normal days, we do 45-minute wall holding. Now, when shooters have the time, this is a useful tool to strengthen the core,” Suma said. She was in New Delhi for meetings and the Olympic trials held by the NRAI for Tokyo 2020, in wake of the Delhi WC cancellation. Suma returned home on March 19 to spend time with family. “Live shooting on the target is one part of the sport. Apart from that, in order to build skills, there are different training exercises. This method helps in developing a constant inner position and can be done before/after training.” The founder of Lakshya Shooting Club at Karnala Sports Academy range [Panvel], said: “The duration depends on how each one feels, it increases or decreases. Once we are able to sail through this period [self-isolation], the ranges are open and shooting actually starts, it will need eight to 10 days to get things back. The skills come back to us; it is very important to keep the body ready. I think this [lockdown] is the best time to really work on yourself physically.”  India gained an unprecedented 15 quota places in shooting for the Tokyo Olympics When the Games are held next year, it will be the largest shooting squad from India at the quadrennial event   India gained an unprecedented 15 quota places in shooting for the Tokyo Olympics When the Games are held next year, it will be the largest shooting squad from India at the quadrennial event||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suma-stresses-on-building-muscle-memory/article31243173.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Want to take on World champions?||Viswanathan Anand is stranded in Frankfurt, Koneru Humpy is managing her home in Vijayawada, while P. Harikrishna is in Prague and B. Adhiban in Chennai. They — along with Vidit Gujrathi in Nashik and Dronavalli Harika in Hyderabad — will log into their computers at 6.30 p.m. on April 11 to take on the rest of the world. For a noble cause. India's top four men and two women will play multiple games against chess players from across the world on the portal chess.com to support the PM-CARES fund. Those who want may play against some of the biggest names in international chess while also contributing towards India's fight against coronavirus. At chess.com’ s simultaneous event, the stars will make their moves on 20 boards each. A guaranteed game against Anand requires a minimum donation of $150. However, a $25 registration fetches the chance to play any one of the six stars (it could be Anand too). Besides, the three biggest donors will get to play against Anand on additional boards during the live stream on chess.com/tv . For a good cause  The five-time World champion is looking forward to the event. “We thought chess fans would enjoy this idea of playing the Indian team and face off with some strong Grandmasters,” Anand told The Hindu from Frankfurt on Thursday. “I hope we all will have some fun and raise some money for a good cause.” Humpy, the women's World No. 2, is also glad to be part of the event. “When chess.com approached me with the idea, I immediately agreed,” she said. “It sounds very interesting; I think it is for the first time that the top Indian players are coming together for something like this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-take-on-world-champions/article31242785.ece
03 April 2020||LONDON,||Former Wimbledon champions saddened||The Wimbledon tennis championships were cancelled for the first time since the Second World War on Wednesday. Here are some reactions from former champions to the Grand Slam — originally scheduled for June 29-July 12 — being cancelled for the first time in 75 years.  Boris Becker: “The problem is the surface, you only have the summer months to prepare and ultimately play on the best grass courts which is usually the case at Queen’s and Wimbledon. “But in order to do so the grass courts need much more preparation time than any other surface. On grass you can only play in the summer months.”  Andy Murray: “Very sad that Wimbledon has been cancelled this year but with all that is going on in the world right now, everyone's health is definitely the most important thing!”  Pat Cash: “These are just very weird and strange times. For me, it’s just a big kick in the gut, because it’s a tournament I love and a tournament that so many love.”  Billie Jean King: “I fully understand and support the decision of the committee. I’ve been fortunate to go to Wimbledon every year since 1961 and I am certainly going to miss this year.”  Petra Kvitova: “Definitely a tough one to take... Not only is it a special tournament to me, but it’s a tournament that has been part of history for so long that it will leave a big hole in the calendar. “I will missing playing on the beautiful grass and wearing my whites, but of course we know it will be back better than ever next year. And maybe we will all appreciate it even more!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-wimbledon-champions-saddened/article31242852.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Online classes ensure training is not impacted||When the warning signals began to emerge from China a few weeks ago, Sushrutha Reddy felt he should be prepared. It didn’t matter he was living in Bengaluru, far away from the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak. A chess coach, he knew that he would have to explore more ways of reaching out to his trainees online. More than anticipated But the demand to learn the game through the internet was more than he anticipated once the lockdown in India began. That has been the case around the globe. However, there has been no compromise in the quality of training. Unlike popular sports like football or cricket, chess can be taught flawlessly within the confines of your room, provided you have internet access. Conducting chess classes online is nothing new. India’s best-known trainer R.B. Ramesh has been doing it for the last 15 years. But what is new is that more coaches and wards have opted for it because of the lockdown in several countries. “Normally I get new students during the school vacation, but more than 50 – including a few from overseas – have joined over the last couple of weeks,” said Sushrutha. “I now conduct lessons online to some 85 students right through the day.”  Chennai-based T.J. Suresh Kumar said the spurt in numbers is largely due to parents’ belief that chess will keep their children occupied when schools are closed. “Coaches like me don’t have any other option but to go online,” he said. Pravin Thipsay pointed out that online coaching had its own advantages. “In a city like Mumbai, where I am living, travelling can be such a huge problem,” said the veteran Grandmaster. “Now you can train someone even till 10 p.m. Of late, I have been having more students online than offline.” But for Ramesh, much of his time used to be spent at his academy, Chess Gurukul, before the lockdown. He trains some of India’s brightest prospects like R. Praggnanandhaa and Aravindh Chithambaram. “Now I teach all of them online,” he said. Multiple platforms There are multiple platforms to reach out to the students. Skype appears to be preferred the choice since it is free. But Sushrutha has found out that Zoom works better when you have to teach a group. “I had also tried Cisco Webex, which too was useful,” he said. “Zoom may not be free, but when you have a reasonable number of students, you can easily cover the cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-classes-ensure-training-is-not-impacted/article31242850.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gambhir’s latest gesture||Gautam Gambhir has decided to contribute his two years’ salary as an MP to the PM-CARES Fund to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. “People ask what can their country do for them. The real question is what can you do for your country? I am donating my 2 year’s salary to #PMCaresFund. You should come forward too,” tweeted Gambhir. “I’m Duty-bound and honoured to contribute Rs 200,000/- to @PMCares, Rs 150,000/- to @TelanganaCMO & Rs 50,000/- to Sec Cantt Board,” tweeted Indian cricket team fielding coach R. Sridhar. Shooter Apurvi Chandela also contributed Rs. 5,00,000 — Rs. 3,00,000 to PM-CARES Fund and Rs. 2,00,000 to Rajasthan CM’s relief fund. Badminton Association of India has donated Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gambhirs-latest-gesture/article31242787.ece
03 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Shah Rukh’s initiative||Kolkata Knight Riders’ owner Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday announced a series of initiatives by his group of companies to fight the COVID-19 crisis. Red Chillies Entertainment, Meer Foundation and Red Chillies VFX will contribute to PM-CARES and the Maharashtra CM’s relief fund apart from 50,000 protective equipment to healthcare providers in West Bengal and Maharashtra. The group will also give daily food requirements to more than 5500 families for at least a month and 2000 freshly cooked meals everyday to hospitals in Mumbai, three lakh meal kits in Mumbai for at least a month, and essential grocery items to over 2500 daily workers for at least a month in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shah-rukhs-initiative/article31242794.ece
03 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Players must take care of their mental health, says Liam Pitchford||Liam Pitchford became the first Englishman to reach the singles final of an ITTF World Tour event — the Qatar Open— last month. The landmark was even more special because he defeated the World No. 1 Xu Xin of China in the semifinals. He eventually lost to Fan Zhendong in the summit clash. Biggest win “That [beating Xu Xin] was the biggest win of my career. He is a tricky player; he is a pen-holder, uses spin very well. His serves and returns are of top quality. Moreover, I had never taken a set off him before,” Pitchford told The Hindu on Wednesday, over phone from his hometown Chesterfield. Forced to be indoors due to Covid-19 pandemic, the 26-year-old has taken it in his stride. “It’s tough in the United Kingdom. We don’t know how long [the lockdown] will continue. I go out for a jog in the morning and do my treadmill and gymming at home,” said Pitchford.  Describing the situation as “uneasy”, he advised all the Olympic aspirants to take care of their mental health. “Apart from physical health, it is important that players take care of their mental health. I request everyone to follow the guidelines [of their respective countries] during the time,” he said. Sharath Kamal, who has played a lot with Pitchford since 2009, traced his career. “He was dubbed a child prodigy. It took him a while to find his balance. After beating Ma Long in the first round of the 2018 Bulgarian Open, he has become quite consistent,” said the Indian. Pitchford has fond memories of the first two editions of the Ultimate Table Tennis League in India. “It brought out the best in me,” said the Commonwealth Games medallist, who has informed the organisers of his keenness to participate in the forthcoming edition. Lot of depth Pitchford said there is a lot of depth in the Indian men’s team now. “Earlier Sharath [Kamal] used to be the torchbearer of the team. Now there are 6-7 players challenging him,” he said. Pitchford is looking forward to a medal in the Tokyo Olympics. “I hope to qualify based on my rankings. I believe I have a chance of winning a medal at Tokyo,” he said.  Pitchford was dubbed a child prodigy. After beating Ma Long in the first round of the 2018 Bulgarian Open, he has become quite consistent Sharath Kamal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-must-take-care-of-their-mental-health-says-liam-pitchford/article31242907.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AICF’s new secretary refutes Chauhan’s charges||The newly nominated secretary of the All India Chess Federation (AICF), Vijay Deshpande, has refuted the charges made by predecessor Bharat Singh Chauhan and has also questioned his actions. On Tuesday, AICF president P.R. Venketrama Raja had removed Chauhan from the post of secretary. Soon after, Chauhan shot off a letter to all the ‘stakeholders’, mentioning that he continued to be the secretary. Reacting to Chauhan’s allegation that Raja’s action was a “malicious attempt to cover his tracks”, Deshpande said, “Chauhan should read the court order carefully and then challenge it. Raja has no need to cover up for anybody. Having made a huge contribution to chess, Raja is also known as the first sponsor of Viswanathan Anand. He does not require any certification from Chauhan.” Irrelevant, meaningless Despande described Chauhan’s charge that Raja removed him to save the All Marathi Chess Association (AMCA) as “irrelevant and meaningless.” Chauhan had pointed out AMCA’s delay in submitting the accounts to the State authorities after availing a grant of Rs. 2 crore for holding the World Youth Chess Championship (WYCC) in Mumbai last October, and that Raja was trying to save it. “What has AICF or its president got to do with this? The Maharashtra government has asked for the expenditure statement of the WYCC. The statement is now with the special auditors nominated for the purpose. As soon as the AMCA gets the certified audit report, it will be submitted. What is there to save AMCA?” wondered Deshpande.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aicf-chaos-deshpande-refutes-charges/article31242842.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen launches richest online event||With scores of chess tournaments cancelled worldwide owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, World champion Magnus Carlsen has come up with a $250,000-online event for eight elite players. The Magnus Carlsen Invitational will be played from April 18 to May 3 with shorter time controls. Participant list The list of participants for the world’s richest online event will be announced soon. Live action with commentary in nine languages will be available on Chess24.com . Commenting on the initative, Carlsen said, “This is a historic moment for chess, and given that it’s possible to continue top professional play in an online environment, we have not only the opportunity but the responsibility to players and fans around the world who need a distraction when no other live, competitive sport is being played.”  The format involves seven rounds of single round-robin where each match features four rapid games, the time control being 15 minutes each plus 10-second increment for every move. The winner of each match gets three points and loser gets none. If the match ends 2-2, an Armageddon game (where the player with white pieces gets five minutes on the clock and black, four) will decide the winner. The winner gets two points and the loser, one. The top four players will be involved in a knockout semifinals. The semifinals, third-place match and final will use the same four-game rapid format to decide the winner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-launches-richest-online-event/article31242844.ece
03 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||The biggest challenge will be mental fatigue, says Arif||Renowned badminton coach S.M. Arif feels the biggest challenge any athlete will face after the lockdown will be mental fatigue. “Athletes — or for that matter any individual — used to busy routines and now confined indoors for such a long time might well face this kind of a challenge. So, it is imperative to do everything possible to avoid it,” says Arif. The Dronacharya awardee says he is doing, right now, what he has never done in his 46 years of coaching — stretching exercises on the rooftop of his residence and interactions over the phone with his trainees. The 76-year-old, whose coaching with national teams started four decades ago, has always been a regular at the Fateh Maidan, his ‘second home’. “This happens to be the longest break for me, beating the previous one during the last General Elections,” Arif says in a chat with The Hindu . How difficult is it? “For me, it has been a different kind of challenge. Though I retired 16 years ago, I continue to visit the Fateh Maidan and offer coaching free of cost. I can’t just be sitting at home. I love being with the trainees,” he says. It’s not just athletes! “So, it is not just the athletes who are hit badly. Coaches find it extremely challenging, too! And, being unsure of what is in store, we are keeping our fingers crossed,” says the coach, the first to produce international medalists in badminton from India since joining the national panel of coaches in 1974. “There are no options but to stay indoors for anyone, given the grim scenario. But my genuine concern is that the players do not get too rusty,” he feels. What is his advice to the trainees? “Just to do minimum exercises possible at home to maintain basic fitness levels. Too much of rest is a scary thing,” says Arif, who introduced the likes of Manoj Kumar, Praveen Kumar, Gopi Chand, and Saina Nehwal to the world of badminton. How does he keep himself occupied? “Well, that is another huge task. I have been watching the Discovery channel a lot of late,” he signs off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-biggest-challenge-will-be-mental-fatigue-says-arif/article31242848.ece
03 April 2020||Paris,||Athletics anti-doping programme ‘severely disrupted’||The Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) has acknowledged that its anti-doping programme will be “severely disrupted” because of the coronavirus pandemic. The AIU, the independent anti-doping watchdog for track and field set up in 2017, operates testing procedures in more than 100 countries. “Under the current conditions of the global pandemic, many of these countries have social distancing restrictions or guidelines in place, these differ from country to country and in turn are all changing very rapidly,” it said. “As a result, there is no doubt that our anti-doping program will be severely disrupted in the short term, however we will still conduct our priority testing missions in those places where it is feasible and safe to do so.” The AIU added that it was reviewing its testing plans day by day “to ensure we are appropriately balancing considerations of public health and the health of athletes against the need to conduct anti-doping tests“. In this respect, all 500 or so World Athletics registered testing pool athletes “must continue to fulfil their ‘whereabouts’ obligations“. Athletics has been hit hard the COVID-19 pandemic, with a raft of events having been postponed or cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athletics-anti-doping-programme-severely-disrupted/article31242851.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Stokes to test skills at virtual Esports GP||England all-rounder Ben Stokes will trade his cricketing gear for some virtual fun when he competes in the Formula One Esports race this Sunday (April 5). With the F1 season affected by the pandemic, the sport is planning to run virtual races, on the scheduled race weekends which have been cancelled, with gamers, celebrities and F1 drivers taking part.. The first such race was held on March 22, the day the Bahrain GP was supposed to be held. The second round will see current Formula 1 drivers Charles Leclerc, Alex Albon, George Russell, Lando Norris and Nicholas Latifi taking part. The F1 quintet will be joined by former driver Johnny Herbert, who finished 13th in the inaugural race in Bahrain, as well as a host of other stars, including Stokes, with more names set to be announced in the coming days. This weekend’s virtual Grand Prix is the second in the new F1 Esports Virtual Grand Prix series, which gives fans the chance to watch Formula 1 races virtually, despite the lockdown due to COVID-19. The race will take place at the Albert Park track, traditionally used for the Australian Grand Prix, on the weekend originally scheduled for Hanoi’s inaugural Street Circuit race in Vietnam. The broadcast, which will be available on the official Formula 1 YouTube, Twitch and Facebook channels, will begin at 00.30 IST (Monday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-to-test-skills-at-virtual-esports-gp/article31242799.ece
03 April 2020||London,||Lewis of ‘DLS method’ fame passes away||Tony Lewis, one of the men behind the Duckworth-Lewis-Stern (DLS) method used in weather-affected limited-overs matches, has died aged 78, the England and Wales Cricket Board announced on Wednesday.  “Tony, alongside fellow mathematician Frank Duckworth, devised the Duckworth-Lewis method which was introduced in 1997 and adopted officially by the ICC (International Cricket Council) in 1999. “Renamed the Duckworth-Lewis-Stern Method in 2014, the mathematical formula continues to be used in rain reduced limited overs cricket games across the globe,” said an ECB statement. A career academic, and not the Welshman of the same name who captained England, Lewis received an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) for his services to cricket and mathematics in 2010. The big difference between the DLS and previous methods was that it gave credit to sides defending a target for taking wickets as well as chasing sides for scoring runs. Significantly, this meant the target could be adjusted proportionately in the event of more than one stoppage. An enduring criticism of the system is that it is difficult to understand without having access to a chart that shows where teams need to be over by over, for however many wickets they have lost. But the sight of a D/L target soon became a familiar feature on cricket scoreboards around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewis-of-dls-method-fame-passes-away/article31242800.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The Infinite and the finite||The world in which beings enter is full of misery and is impermanent, warns the Lord in the Gita. Still, many either fail to grasp the full import of this warning or easily forget it when they get drawn to the compulsive worldly attractions. Scriptures reiterate that a clear perception of the Paramatma jivatma relationship is the first step in the sadana to insulate oneself from the pulls of the world while being very much in it, pointed out Swami Anubhavananda Saraswati in a discourse. A frog that is confined to the limited water in a well has no idea of the vast expanse of the water that the ocean stands for; whereas, the ocean dwelling fish experiences this sense of immeasurableness at all times. The Upanishads explain that before creation Paramatma alone existed. Through His Maya He became the world and entered into it as the Jiva, or the individual self. So He is the antaratma in every being, the eternal and imperishable aspect and is forever responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the entire universe. But He remains unaffected and distant at all times. In every being, the atma is the eternal essence, though one is subject to various experiences in many births. So the present life is transitory and is connected to one’s past life and it determines the next life as well. This means all beings are part of continuous existence. When one awakens to the awareness of higher pursuits than mere worldly goals, and consciously takes up responsibility for his life and aims to purify the mind by unselfish acts, worship, etc, his sense of discrimination also develops. He can sift the real from the unreal and seek the real alone. This subtle mental exercise is carried over through various births, and finally he comes to realise the infinite nature of the atma within.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-infinite-and-the-finite/article31242777.ece
03 April 2020||Karaikudi,||Vasanth’s spell in vain||Vasanth Kumar’s seven-wicket haul went in vain as Sunlight lost to Moonlight by 34 runs in the Sivaganga DCA second division league.  The scores: Moonlight 114 in 18.4 overs (Vasanth Kumar 7/20) bt Sunlight 80 in 19.4 overs.   Gangai Brothers 175/6 in 20 overs (Pitchaipandi 54, Mari 30, Manimaran 26) bt Smashers 156/7 in 20 overs (Casmir Micheal Raj 47).   Optra Computers 142/5 in 20 overs (Sujith Daini 47, Ganesh 27) bt Aptech WBC 139/6 in 20 overs (Abdul Azeez 33, P. Karthick 28).   Knights 155/4 in 20 overs (Thowbik Mohammed 38, Akash 37, Mujahith 30, Sikandar Lingam 25) lost to Karaikudi Town 158/8 in 19.3 overs (Anwar Ali 43 n.o., Balaji 3/36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vasanths-spell-in-vain/article31242965.ece
03 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bach thanks PM Modi for support||IOC president Thomas Bach thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his unflinching support to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, which has now been shifted to 2021. In a letter to Modi, dated April 1, Bach said he was “grateful” to the PM for his support to the Tokyo Games during the recent G20 Leaders’ Summit held via a video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bach-thanks-pm-modi-for-support/article31242803.ece
03 April 2020||Madrid,||Spanish league wants mini-camp, testing before resuming||The Spanish league is putting together a detailed plan to get teams ready when the league restarts, recommending a mini-pre-season and a large number of tests for players, their close relatives and club employees. The protocol prepared by the league gives the first glimpse at what some of the top European leagues may be preparing for when competitions resume following the pandemic.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spanish-league-wants-mini-camp-testing-before-resuming/article31242792.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 07:42 IST,||Sudoku - April 3, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-3-2020/article31243620.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||When Trump ‘crooned’ Mappilapattu||Perhaps one of the most forwarded videos on social media during this lockdown has been US President Donald Trump ‘singing’ Mappilapattu. In this video, which has got 4.25 lakh views on Instagram page, @ajmalsabucuts, the President is depicted singing a traditional folk song of the Muslim community in Kerala, with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, First Lady Melanie Trump, Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, and thousands of people cheering him on. The ‘mash-up video’ features the filmi version of the popular Mappila song, ‘Aminathathede Ponnumolaanu’, from the Malayalam movie Honey Bee 2.5 , sung by actor-director Lal. The mastermind behind the video is editor-cinematographer-director Ajmal Sabu. With accolades coming in from the world over for his editing skills in creating the impression that Trump himself is singing those lines, the 24-year-old is on a high. The viral video has so far got over eight lakh views on Facebook as well. “I didn’t expect such a reach for the video. I am getting messages from across India and even abroad,” says Ajmal over phone from his home at Changanassery in Kottayam district. He adds, “My professional commitments have been stalled due to the lockdown. So, instead of wasting time I thought of doing something interesting. I came across this song in a video my friend had sent me. I was hearing that version of the song for the first time and felt that I should put it to use somewhere. As the ‘Namaste Trump’ event at Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, was a much-discussed event, I thought of giving it a try. And it clicked!” he says. Ajmal started his Instagram page for mash-up videos two years ago and most have gone viral. There are over 50 videos on the page, with another popular one being WWE superstar Big Show and chief branding officer Stephanie McMahon supposedly saying the dialogues of Nakulan (Suresh Gopi) and Ganga (Sobhana) from an iconic scene in Malayalam movie Manichitrathazhu.  The first mash-up video he created was of the Joker-Batman scene from The Dark Knight with dialogues from Maheshinte Prathikaram , picturised on Soubin Shahir and Alencier. Among other videos that fetched lakhs of likes are those of Bruno Mars dancing to the tune of ‘Margazhiye malligaye’ from Megham , Rihanna’s video with the track of Popy umbrella ad, scene from Guardians of Galaxy with dialogues from Aniyathipravu and Modi’s speech at a rally with lottery announcement. Ajmal says that there is no short cut to creating these videos. “It takes several hours to mix and match the scenes. I spent seven to eight hours on the Trump video alone. If you are taking a song or dance number, matching rhythm and steps are not that difficult. But the toughest part is lip sync. It is possible to experiment with all videos. However, you have to keep trying to get the perfect match,” he says, adding, “At the same time you shouldn’t compromise on humour.”  Meet the maker An alumnus of Maya Academy of Advanced Cinematics in Pune, from where he learnt animation, VFX and post production, Ajmal started out as a cinematographer with a Marathi film, Dhap . He was an assistant director in the Malayalam films Kappirithuruthu and Love Action Drama . He has also been a spot editor and is much sought-after in Malayalam film industry for making promo cuts, teasers and trailers of movies. He has directed short films and has done cinematography and editing in music videos, short films, documentaries and ad films. He is all set to turn independent as an editor and cinematographer with a Malayalam film. “If the lockdown wasn’t there, the shoot would have begun on April 10. It is a good project and I still can’t believe that I am doing it,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-trump-crooned-mappilapattu/article31242635.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to start your sourdough||On the sourdough starter — a fermented mixture of water and flour used as a leavening agent — rests the fate of a boule of sourdough bread. Patience is a key ingredient. The starter demands feeding and attention till it is ready in five to seven days. With the COVID-19 lockdown, packed schedules have been cleared, and with the kind of time available, there is a surge of interest in making sourdough. “Those who have wanted to bake now have the time for it,” says Sujit Sumitran, the ‘bread whisperer’ from Goa. Over the past few years, Sujit has travelled across the country taking intensive, day-long classes on how to make this fermented bread, as well as hosted classes at his home in Goa. Now, he has had many enquiries for online classes but so far he has demurred. “I can’t ship the starter, then how?” he wonders, since he uses his own starter for his sessions, and then gives some to participants, so they can start making sourdough with it. He also has starters of varying vintages and geography. A starter is the cultivation of wild yeast in a form that can be used for baking; wild yeast is present in all flour. It is used instead of yeast, for fermentation. Selvan Thandapani of Bengaluru’s Sour House (sourhouse.in) has been, for the last one week, posting short tutorial videos of how to make a starter. In each video he shows how the starter should look, grow, be discarded and ‘fed’. Thandapani conducts workshops and retails too. He uses 20 gm of all-purpose flour mixed with an equal amount of water, stored in a 150-200 ml transparent container at room temperature in warm cities. The container should be loosely covered — either a cap or cheesecloth. Each day, after the first 24 hours, around three-fourths of it is discarded and more flour and water added to remaining mixture to ‘feed’ it. This is done for five to seven days till the starter is ready. Delhi-based expert Anita Tikoo, who conducts sourdough workshops, says the current shortage of bread in supermarkets and more time at hand are reasons for the surge in interest. “People need something to keep them occupied; they would have thought about baking earlier, but didn’t have the time to follow up. Now there is time,” she says. She recently conducted a live sourdough starter session via her Instagram handle (a_madteaparty). When Tikoo announced it, she had more than 250 requests to participate. She has since been getting regular updates on the starters. “There is a lot of excitement about it on Instagram, especially about making the starter from scratch. It is a great distraction and one can get very involved in the process,” she continues, “I want to remove the air of mystery around it. It is not intimidating and everybody can do it.”  Side treats Sourdough bread is said to have many benefits as opposed to yeast-made bread, especially due to the use of the starter, making it easy to digest. Tikoo recently conducted a live session of how to make crumpets using the discard, “The discard is the leftover starter. You take a small amount of starter to make a fresh batch. The rest is called discard but can be used to cook a host of leavened breads from waffles and pancakes to pita and parathas.” The starter or discard can be added to the flour and mixed, depending on the bread one intends to bake. Dough for traditional Indian breads such as parathas are not fermented, but adding starter leavens it. This is Bengaluru-based Sufiya D’s first tryst with sourdough. “I have wanted to do this for sometime but never had the time. Now with the lockdown, I finally got down to it,” she says. She follows Tikoo and a few YouTubers for tips. It has been a week now and her starter is ready; she is excited about how it is turning out. The approach of bakers is cautious; they don’t want to waste ingredients and stretch resources. Like Anita Singh (whose Instagram handle is sourdoughbakesandfermentation) of Mumbai, who conducts workshops and bakes commercially. Singh says, “I have not been baking more as I have to be careful with the ingredients, since the lockdown is complete here. I use things that we have at home — wheat, millet, semolina — luckily we have a stock of whole wheat flour at home. I bake when we are done with our bread at home.” Adds Tikoo, “It is also about mindfulness. Watching the starter grow is meditative and calming. You have to pay attention to it and be very involved with it. It also gives people a sense of community, of belonging, while inherently being a process suited to being on your own, being alone.” She, and others like Thandapani, suggest naming the starter; Sufiya calls hers ‘Bubbly’ while Thandapani called one of his ‘Gloopy’. As Tikoo says, “You think of it as your own, as something living — a pet. It occupies the mind positively.”  Give thy neighbour Although Sujit Sumitran is not conducting online classes for the time being, he has his hands full with baking — for his neighbours. “Here, in Goa, people eat a lot of bread — in the morning and evening. Only lunch would be something else like rice. Bread is important and there is not too much of it available now,” he says. One of the first batches of enriched loaves, he says on his Instagram handle, “has Goan jaggery, eggs, butter and milk instead of water.” The inclusions on some are blue poppy seeds and lemon pepper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/time-to-start-your-sourdough/article31242641.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Cartoonists to the fore||As India comes to a standstill due to the COVID-19 pandemic, cartoonists are reaching out to people to raise awareness about the virus, in an approachable, fun way. “Unverified WhatsApp forwards are spreading fast, probably faster than the Coronavirus itself,” says Sameera Maruvada, a Visakhapatnam-based cartoonist. Sameera has taken it upon herself to bust myths about the virus and social distancing through her cartoons. One of them, posted on her handle @saltandsambar, mocks the ‘miraculous’ home remedies constantly being forwarded by well-meaning friends and family. “There is so much fake news circulating on social media creating unnecessary panic. So as a person who has the privilege of reaching hundreds of people, I want to do my bit to help people understand the situation better,” she adds. Not all cartoons are educational though; some are made just to capture the surreal situation. “I created a cartoon of a girl with a broom and captioned it ‘I thought quarantine was all about Netflix and chill’ and that got the most number of responses, as many thought it was hilariously relatable,” she adds. Myths and mythology For Kochi-based stand-up comic Sabareesh Narayanan and graphic designer Anna Jovitha from Alappuzha, the surgical mask is “a symbol” of the current times. When the duo decided to collaborate on a series of cartoons to highlight the importance of adopting precautionary measures and also reflect the prevalent mood, it looked to mythology. In one of the panels, in their ‘Ramayana in the time of Corona’ series, Lakshmana is seen “social distancing” from his brother, Rama, ensuring a “safe distance” using a measuring tape. Another one shows 10-headed Ravana with masks on all his heads, struggling to fasten them all together. Meanwhile, Hanuman stands by a window with a bottle of hand sanitiser, wearing a mask, presumably upset at being unable to venture out. “The idea was to try and put a smile on people’s face in these difficult times,” says Sabareesh, who conceptualised the cartoons. Anna says once Sabareesh conveyed the ideas to her, she wanted the cartoons to have a “catchy visual language”, making them look like pop culture. “The works were done digitally. If you notice, there are no elaborate details, especially for the backgrounds. I was more interested in depicting the characters as cute,” she says. Stay at home say cartoons Hyderabad-based cartoonist Shankar Pamarthy’s coronavirus cartoons not only draw attention to its impact on the world but advocates a stay at home message to stop its spread. In his cartoons, the virus in green appears circular in shape and wrapped with spikes. One cartoon shows a man riding a scooter unaware that the virus is his pillion rider. Happy that the man has come out of his house, the virus gleefully remarks, “ Hamayya bayitiki ravemo ani bhayapadi chachha (I was scared that you will not come out). One image depicts Atlas/Hercules bearing the virus instead of the globe, the other portrays how eager the virus is to shake hands with a man, who prefers a namaste. “My focus is to send the message loud and clear asking everyone to stay at home,” says Shankar, who uploads his cartoons on social media from home, where he is enjoying spending time with his two sons. “Even after strict instructions by the Government to stay indoors, we still see some people out on the roads. Unless it is an emergency, we should stay indoors and help in containing the virus’ spread and break the chain.” From a safe distance Sabari Venu’s Mean Curry, a comic strip on Insta with a following of more than 17.5 K , uses a mix of Malayalam and English to come up with sharp but humour-laced observations on current affairs and society. Ever since the COVID-19 outbreak, his followers have been keenly waiting to see what the Bengaluru-based designer would come up with: he opened with a cheeky panel on his Facebook page, Mean Curry on March 20’s Janata curfew and banging of vessels. On March 24, he put up another one that showed a dad barely coping with four children: one kid draws a picture on his white dhoti, while he is combing the hair of the second child. Meanwhile, he balances the third and fourth on his shoulder and arm. Sabari posts that the cartoon is for all “super parents self isolating with their little hyper-active monsters”. He says, “The drawing is part of a colouring book created by Nithin Mathew and Sanid Asid Ali for exhausted parents looking for ways to engage their kids,” adding that this initiative, which features drawings by different artists on Instagram, will be distributed for free. The colouring book can be downloaded for free from https://bit.ly/QCBOOK2020.  (With inputs from JS Harikumar, Neeraja Murthy and Saraswathy Nagarajan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cartoonists-to-the-fore/article31242658.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Pitching in for sanitisers||According to Director General of Police, Prisons, Sunil Kumar Singh, IPS, masks and sanitisers are being made in seven different prisons in the State. “A week back, we started making surgical masks (with elastic, and non-woven material as per specifications) in three units — Puzhal [Chennai], Tiruchi, and Coimbatore. We then scaled up and now seven units are making sanitisers and masks for consumption of police personnel and within the prison set-up — Puzhal 1, Vellore, Cuddalore, Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Madurai and Palayamkottai. We have been able to manufacture about 55,000 masks so far,” he says. A number of precautions are being taken: “Safe distance is maintained among inmates, our prisons are at only 51.5% capacity. This was ensured with the release of 3,574 inmates on bail in a week. We have closed family interviews for now and replaced them with video calls — twice a week for convicts and thrice a week for undertrials. We have purchased 58 smartphones for the same. All new inmates have a quarantine of 14 days. We have thermal scanners in some units and are working to supply more prisons with them. Any inmate with even a cough/cold or slight fever is taken to the Government hospital. We have provided sanitisers, extra soaps to ensure hand washing protocol. All meals are provided to the inmates in their dormitories,” concludes Singh.   Food blogger, Sonia Vadlamani has been tracking the spread of Coronavirus. Reality hit home when one of her cooks had to buy 50 ml of sanitiser for Rs. 250. “I realised that it was not economical for most of them. Anyway, just keeping our hands clean will not help in countering the virus, the people around us need to take care of themselves too. So there is no point hoarding sanitisers,” she says. With a degree in Chemical Engineering, Sonia picked up the required chemicals from a local store and made it according to WHO guidelines. “We made six to seven litres in our first batch. We kept one litre at home and distributed the rest,” she says, “The cost of one litre would be somewhere around Rs. 350,” she adds. Her Instagram handle has been flooded with messages since.   Chemistry departments of several colleges in Kerala are coming forward to make hand sanitisers. St Xavier’s College, Thumba, pitched in by first posting a video on how to make sanitisers at home. The video later went viral. The college gave away five litres of the solution to a nearby village. “After that, we taught the procedure to one homemaker each from different parishes near the college. Also, we arranged raw materials for another group who were taught through WhatsApp,” says Divya Thomas, assistant professor, Department of Chemistry. Department of Applied Chemistry, Cochin University of Science and Technology, manufactured 2,000 bottles. Besides placing the 100 ml bottles in different departments, they also gave away to 70 houses, two Government schools and a palliative care centre. “We want to give sanitisers to those who can’t afford to buy it,” says Girish Kumar, head of the department. Local self government bodies and autorickshaw drivers were also provided with the same. On March 13, the Chemistry department of Bharata Mata College, Thrikkakara (Kochi), went into production mode. The laboratory staff — Shinto Thomas and Siji Sebastian — guided by the teachers, got down to business, as the students were to arrive in college on March 16 for their exams. Says Litty Sebastian, head of the department, “Since there has been a surge of demand, there has been a shortage of supplies.” The sanitiser is potent, with an alcohol content of 75%. They gave 10 litres each to the Thrikkakara Municipality and the district council. At Sree Narayana College (Kollam), the intention had originally been to cater to its 4,000-odd students before the lockdown, but paucity led them to manufacture and supply to the District Hospital and Victoria Hospital. “Our sanitiser has 70% alcohol, which made it very effective,” says Dr VL Pushpa, head of department of Chemistry.     The space centre produced hand sanitisers to be distributed among 7,500 employees working on its multiple campuses in Thiruvananthapuram. The formulation was prepared in Propellant Fuel Complex of VSSC after obtaining licence to manufacture it from State Pharmaceutical Controller. Five litres were handed over to the district’s general hospital.  With inputs from Athira M, Shilpa Nair, Aishwarya Upadhye and Anisha Menezes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pitching-in-for-sanitisers/article31242637.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Chicken soup for the locked-down soul||This time last month Chindi Varadarajulu was busy planning menus for her newly-launched Chinese restaurant, Zhoyu. Downstairs, her older restaurant Pumpkin Tales, was buzzing with laughter and conversation, as diners gathered over avocado toast, hunks of chocolate cake and steamy cappuccinos. Then, like every other restaurant in town, both started emptying out as the shadow of COVID-19 loomed. By the weekend of March 21-22, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the all-India Janata curfew, they had switched off the ovens. Now, they are open again. But in a very different avatar, cloaked in the scent of hand sanitiser instead of the comforting aroma of baking bread. A hefty table across the front bars customers from entering. Only delivery and takeaways. And the staff are in masks and gloves, meticulously wiping down every table with a bleach solution at regular intervals. A lot has changed in a very short time. Navigating the challenges of India’s 21-day lockdown, as delivery services including Swiggy, Zomato and Dunzo resume — albeit with limited timings — restaurants across the country are struggling to reopen. Not everyone can: there’s an overwhelming shadow of fear, manpower is in short supply and ingredients are difficult to procure. Yet, rents and salaries have to be paid. And, judging by the response, customers are eager to start ordering food again. On a call from Mumbai, Gauri Devidayal, who runs The Table and Magazine Street kitchen, says, “I have been speaking to people who run restaurants, delivery kitchens and catering units, and they all feel many of them are going to have to close. Rent is 50 to 60% of your cost, and it is crippling.” She adds, “One of the biggest challenges in Mumbai and Delhi is the fact that most kitchens use migrant workers, who have all gone home.” Her team has tried to get back on its feet as quickly as possible by restarting the bakery a few days ago. “We had an overwhelming response. “On the first day we went live, despite no advertising, we did the same value of sales in four hours that we did over the whole of February,” says Gauri. “The only reason we were able to relaunch was we got a small team to move into Magazine Street Kitchen. We converted our dining room into a living space to minimise them going back and forth.” Their delivery only brand, Iktara re-starts today, offering Indian comfort food. “The focus is great quality at delivery prices, cooked in a hygienic kitchen,” she says, adding that moving forward, hygiene is going to be of paramount importance as customers need to trust restaurateurs and chefs more than ever before. This is why Ashvin Rajagopalan of Chennai’s Ashvita Bistro’s main focus now is restaurant hygiene, and keeping his team safe. Now that they are up and running for deliveries again, albeit with a flexible menu since not all ingredients are available, the café accepts only contactless payments. In T Nagar, Paati Veedu is also slowly powering up. G Mohandas, one of the owners, says they are trying to deliver orders to their older customers especially, who find it challenging to shop for groceries and cook during the lockdown. To accomplish this, they are focussing on larger plates of dishes that can stay fresh for a couple of days in the fridge, like tamarind rice,sambarrice,rasamandidlis. “Right now, people want anything that is available,” he says. “They are not being picky. Everybody has understood you can’t have a whole lot. But we are trying to keep the menu interesting. Since we are a vegetarian restaurant, even with six types of vegetables available, we can dish out quite a lot.” For restaurant chains with set menus, however, a reliable supply of ingredients is vital, and with supply chains affected by the lockdown, every day poses fresh challenges. Sandesh Reddy, who oversees the French Loaf and Wangs Kitchen chains, in addition to Sandys, Ox And Tomato and Hu Tong, says they are tweaking menus depending on what is available everyday, but adds that there are a lot of logistical issues. “We are doing the best we can,” he says, “But it is tough. And I don’t know how many restaurants are going to survive this.” On popular demand, they have got five French Loaf outlets up and running, supplying bread. “The bread arrives at 10 am, and we sell out by 1.30 everyday,” he says. In an attempt to supplement the bread, the cafes are also selling eggs, milk, pasta and instant noodles, when available. Back at Pumpkin Tales, Chindi is elbow deep in dough. “We have just one baker now, so I’m spending about four hours in the kitchen everyday,” she says, adding that they can barely keep up with the demand ever since they reopened the bakery. “We are selling four times more bread than usual, so we now bake three times a day.” They are also finding creative ways to cater to customers craving a change from cooking at home. “We also make pizza crusts, that are 50% cooked, and give it with sauce and cheese, so people can make pizzas at home. Also burgers, shakshuka, and pasta sauces.” They now have a lockdown menu, offering practical, larger portions for families: tubs of soup, fried rice that does well in the fridge and whole roast chickens. Since people are comfort eating now, she is also baking more cake. “We have carrot cake, triple chocolate and brownies. We used to sell cinnamon buns and scones once a week, now we bake them everyday.” She adds, “We also brought back our Christmas cranberry sourdough — I think people need some kind of a treat now. Some cheer to get us all through this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chicken-soup-for-the-locked-down-soul/article31242651.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Saturday night party||“Hi, where are you from?” A man breathes into my ear. But he isn’t talking to me, he is talking to another woman on this public group chat that I have entered on Rave. It is a multimedia messenger app that allows users to watch videos in sync, while also texting and speaking via VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol). “Argentina,” the woman breathes back while 14 of us are trying to watch Annabelle: Creation on Netflix. My phone pings, announcing that standup comic Aaquib Jaleel is live with House of T, hosting a quiz on Instagram. I discreetly leave the ASMR conversation at Rave to wash my ears and switch to the ‘Gram. Weekend pub-hopping has never really been my scene. But given that the world is currently practising physical distancing, the desperation for friends, acquaintances, or strangers to fill the silences in our homes is reaching a crescendo. So, pub-hopping has today mutated into app-hopping. And that is something I can get behind. I’ve been cruising the dirty lanes of Craigslist since I was 17. *** The Instagram live quiz is going well: I learnt that Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs is the first feature length animation, and Leo Fender, inventor of Fender guitars, couldn’t actually play one. Unexpectedly though, I get a call via the Dialup app, from QuarantineChat. This app arbitrarily connects you to any of its over-1,000 users across the globe. That is how I met Andrei, a Romanian warehouse worker who has been living near Yorkshire, UK, for the past three years. We take five minutes to adjust to each others’ accents, but in the next 30 minutes, the 49-year-old describes his life in Yorkshire, how he met his wife, and why he loves that she is as good at fixing things as he is. I tell him about all the cats and dogs I’ve known and how my parents live up in the hills, while I’m spending my years near the sea. “If I could give my 20-year-old self some advice, I’d tell him to live without fear, without worrying about what other people think of you,” he says in his gruff, slow voice. I am reminded of what Nishad, a 25-year-old from Mumbai I met through QuarantineChat, had told me about his experience speaking to a woman in her fifties, “There was so much warmth in her voice. You know she didn’t spend her time texting people on screens, like people of our generation.” *** Ican’t dwell too much on philosophical discussions, however. Because I am super popular, I have a House Party scheduled in half an hour, and I have to slap on some lipstick for it. This is one of the precious few times I (virtually) meet fellow humans, and I’m not doing it in pyjamas. Not even if it is to play yet another game while facetiming with five buddies. We can get competitive. I consider heading back to Rave after the House Party. But the scene there is dead: the Shrek watch party speaks a different language, with zero Eddie Murphy references, and the only person talking to me is a certain Diego asking if I’m on Snapchat. Instead, I convince one of my friends to download Squad. I’m constantly on the lookout for new places to meet the same eight friends I have, and this particular app allows screen sharing. Which means no more screenshots, you can spill tea in real time as your friend’s screen movements and vidoes come alive in your’s. Mind you, downloading these apps, including House Party and Zoom, among others, means giving over a whole lot of personal information to third parties. So you might want to rethink who’s really spilling the tea here. The moon is rising, and I open up a bottle of wine to drink with my college friends living in Italy, US and Germany, over Google Hangouts. We might dim the lights and turn it into a dance party — we have already made a joint Spotify playlist. I need to sleep soon though, I have RSVP’d “yes” to a Brooklyn 99 Netflix Party with my sister for brunch.  Serendipity Founders of QuarantineChat and Dialup, Danielle Baskin and Max Hawkins met at a Halloween party in San Francisco in 2016. They used the app Dialup to stay in touch before releasing it publicly last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/saturday-night-party/article31242614.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Ginger, lemon and turmeric||It is a challenging task to reach Dr Sujatha Venkatesh, Chief Dietician at Chennai’s Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, on the telephone. Her daily routine has gone for a toss over the past few weeks, ever since the Coronavirus hit Tamil Nadu. With an increasing number of cases and special dietary requirements for every patient, the pressure is on her and her team to deliver. And they have, with smiles on their faces. Sujatha and her team have been working around the clock to make sure that the patients who have tested positive and all the staff caring for them are fed — with the kind of food that they believe will make recuperation easier. Though there are reportedly only six positive patients at this hospital now, the team is putting an effort into ensuring a healthy diet for them and their many caregivers. “They say, unave marundhu (food is medicine), and that is so true in times like this,” says Dr Sujatha. When patients who tested positive for COVID-19 started arriving at the Chennai GH, not only was the medical fraternity ready, but so also was the team involved in figuring out their daily diet. Dr Sujatha and her team sat together to pen a list of things that people use in everyday life to build immunity, and incorporated them in the menu of both the patients fighting Coronavirus as well as the medical staff handling them. That resulted in a ‘COVID-19 Diet Book’ that acts as their go-to guide today. At the Government hospital, Coronavirus patients start their morning at 7 am with some hot boiled water, with ginger and lemon (with skin). Breakfast includes idlis , two eggs and samba rava upma , with onion chutney, and milk. At 10 am, they are served fresh sathukudi juice, and they have ginger/lemon hot water again at 11.30 am, along with some cucumber salad. Lunch arrives at about 1.30 pm, and consists of chapati , mint rice, two vegetable curries, pepper rasam and roasted Bengal gram. They are also given turmeric milk and dal soup later in the evening, followed by a dinner that consists of chapatis , idlis and vegetable kurma . The emphasis is on three things: ginger, lemon and turmeric. “Ginger gives a lot of relief to people having cold, and lemon, rich in Vitamin C, has detoxification qualities. The turmeric and pepper we use in the food have great anti-bacterial benefits, and they are both very familiar to the Indian palate, because we mostly use them at our homes,” she adds. Boosting the immune system to fight the virus is something that the team is actively working on. “If you have a balanced diet, then you are keeping a lot of diseases at bay,” adds Dr Sujatha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ginger-lemon-and-turmeric/article31242644.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s this button for?||Cinderella had her fairy godmother to get her dressed but all you need are buttons and fabric or an old garment. And you can create not one but at least three possible garments out of them. “You don’t need a pair of scissors or a machine either,” says Anuj Sharma who started his label Button Masala in 2009. His technique is simple: he uses buttons and rubber bands to hold two pieces of fabric together. And Anuj is more than happy sharing the know how of this method. He believes, no technique should be exclusive. Which is why, the designer will be conducting a virtual workshop this Saturday. Titled Button Up with Anuj Sharma, the hour-long online session will take participants through the philosophy of the brand and teach them how to create fuss-free garments without sewing. It is open to anyone (kids and adults) who is at home and wants to learn something creative. If there are more kids then he plans to jump straight away into the fun part of creating rather than talking about philosophy. The idea is to make design democratic so people can create rather just buy, says Anuj. “This is sustainable and cheap and since you are not cutting the garment, you can open the buttons or rubber band and reuse the garment in its original form or create something new out of it again.” Anuj, who has showcased at the Lakme Fashion week multiple times, says that it is important to educate people about design. There are numerous design possibilities but we have created a market scenario where people opt for the same style over and over again. For example, if it’s wedding wear, they want embroidery, otherwise they do not consider it appropriate for the occasion. They have lost simplicity and forgotten that a fabric has value by itself; its own beauty that they just can’t seem to see,” he says. His workshops, that he conducts all over the world, attempt to show people myriad possibilities and teach them this simple technique.  The workshop is on April 4, at 4 pm. To join, log on to gormeitravel.com/hive02 or send an email to booking@gormei.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/whats-this-button-for/article31242627.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Covid 19: Coimbatore-based companies manufacture 3D-printed face shields for sanitation workers||It was the morning of the Janata Curfew. Ebin Ephrem Elavathingal, senior manager of AIC RAISE (an incubator backed by the Government of India under the NITI Aayog Programme); Hari Vigneshwaran, founder of Augment 3Di; and Vigneshwaran S, founder of Virtual Frontier Robotics were watching the news on television. “All of us are engineers and wanted to do something to help. Vigneshwaran told us about face shields being 3D-printed in a lab in Italy,” says Ebin. Over the next three hours, the team researched face shields and designs. “We could not find any open-source design and so we decided to develop one ourselves. Vigneshwaran and Hari have 3D printers and we put them to work. We did the entire discussion and designing over video calls,” he adds. Their first shield was ready on the same day, but the process took four hours. “So we reworked the design till each mask took an hour to make. We developed 350 masks and donated them to sanitation workers in Coimbatore. It covers the entire face and can be reused after cleaning with soap,” Ebin says. Of the 350 shields, 250 were directly given to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital. “The rest was donated to Coimbatore Corporation-South Zone in association with Rathinam Group of Institutions,” he says. Soon after the group posted photographs of the product on their social media, requests flooded in from across the country. “Our production capacity was limited. So we decided to open-source our design. Now anyone can use it free of cost. All one has to do is feed the memory card with the design into the 3D printing press,” Ebin explains. The team now plans to move into mass production. “We hope to make 1000 masks a day. We are looking for donors who can support us. Each mask costs Rs. 90 to make.” They are now working on a design to 3D-print ventilators. “It is a complex design. We have designed 60% of it. We should be done in the next few days. We hope to get a working model soon,” Ebin concludes.  Call 7708019222 for details. Visit https://aicraise.com/face ask3dprint/to download   the design||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/covid-19-coimbatore-based-companies-manufacture-3d-printed-face-shields-for-sanitation-workers/article31242646.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A tale of two women||Aaditi Pohankar’s phone hasn’t stopped buzzing. After the release of her first Netflix series, She, praise and congratulatory messages are pouring in from around the globe, she says. “I am so overwhelmed. Finally, the thing that I worked so hard on for months is out for people to see and they are liking it. This feeling is incomparable,” says the 25-year-old. Aaditi portrays the role of Bhumika Pardesi, a timid cop who explores her sexuality when she disguises herself as a sex worker for a mission to expose a drug lord in Mumbai. The series has been written and co-directed by Imtiaz Ali. “Imtiaz has written the characters so well, that I could easily understand the nuances of Bhumika as a sex worker and as a cop. While she is in her uniform, she is restricted and speaks in a very timid way. But as a sex worker she is free and wild,” she says. Working with the famed director was a dream-come-true for Aaditi who met him at the screening of Laila Majnu almost two years ago. “I was just a movie old when I met Imtiaz. I sent him a showreel that I had shot in Goa. Imtiaz watched it and invited me to meet him. He narrated the character of Bhumika to me and called me to do a screen test, and in a week I got the confirmation for the series. At that time, I knew that she played an important role in the series but I was unaware she is the protagonist,” adds the actor.  She went on shoot last year in November, but before that, Aaditi spent months preparing reading sessions with Imtiaz and co-actor Vijay Varma. “I am a very observant person, so when I had to play a Marathi cop, I brought into play all those years I had watched cops at bus stops and traffic signals. I am not one who watches movies to prepare for my role; I would rather look at real-life personalities.” Born and raised in Mumbai, Aaditi wanted to be an athlete. “I come from a family of Hindustani classical musicians, but my dad was a sportsperson. Everyone in my house was an art enthusiast, so the dinner table conversations always revolved around Vijay Tendulkar or Anton Chekhov. It was in my school that I was drawn to theatre, and by Class X, I had started working with Satyadev Dubey and Makarand Deshpande,” she adds. Aaditi made her film début with a Marathi movie titled Lai Bhaari opposite Riteish Deshmukh. Currently, the actress is waiting for the release of her next film Ashram by Prakash Jha that is slated to release this May.  Our family’s dinner table conversations always revolved around Vijay Tendulkar or Anton Chekhov||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-tale-of-two-women/article31242616.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||In tune with the times||Months after signing a licensing agreement with Warner Music Group’s Warner Chappell, Spotify India has finally renewed its global licensing agreement with the record label giant, the streaming platform announced in a statement on April 1, 2020. The variety of music available on the platform was lacking due to the long-ongoing legal dispute with Warner Music Group (WMG). This started when Warner Music, which was an investor in Spotify, sold its stake in the streaming service in August 2018. Then in February 2019, Warner had requested the Bombay High Court for an injunction to prevent Spotify from offering songs by its roster of song writers, including Katy Perry, Ed Sheeran, Madonna and David Guetta — some of the music has already been released to the platform, but Spotify confirms the complete rollout will take a couple of days. Warner Chappell, the publishing arm for the WMG, represents songwriters, while record labels work with the recording artiste and producer. This deal, though, will finally bring Spotify up the ranks in terms of library diversity. Once the global licence was renewed by the two companies, a joint statement from Spotify and Warner Music Group reads, “This expanded deal covers countries where Spotify is available today, as well as additional markets. The two companies look forward to collaborating on impactful global initiatives for Warner artistes and songwriters, and working together to grow the music industry over the long term.” No financial details about the WMG-Spotify deal have been disseminated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-tune-with-the-times/article31242660.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Lityananda is not Nithyananda’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lityananda-is-not-nithyananda/article31242625.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A Twelve-Year Night||I loved this movie and was reminded of Vaikom Muhammad Basheer’s Mathilukal novel. A Twelve-Year Night is both political and a survival drama. What was striking for me was the way sound was used as a character. It is based on the real-life story of the former Uruguayan President Jose Mujica.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-twelve-year-night/article31242618.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Abstract: The Art of Design||The show is about reputed designers from all over the world. It offers a peek into the life of designers and their design concepts. For example, there is an episode about how the Instagram logo was designed. It is very interesting and I would strongly suggest this. I am also using this time to revisit Breaking Bad .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/abstract-the-art-of-design/article31242620.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales by Light||I really liked Tales by Light , which is an insight into the world of photography. The series follows the life of sought-after photographers from Australia and the other countries. It is pensive and beautifully-shot. Wild Wild Country is another TV show I would recommend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-by-light/article31242622.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||TIme to start your sourdough||On the sourdough starter — a fermented mixture of water and flour used as a leavening agent — rests the fate of a boule of sourdough bread. Patience is a key ingredient. The starter demands feeding and attention till it is ready in five to seven days. With the COVID-19 lockdown, packed schedules have been cleared, and with the kind of time available, there is a surge of interest in making sourdough.  Bakers together  “Those who have wanted to bake now have the time for it,” says Sujit Sumitran, the ‘bread whisperer’ from Goa. Over the past few years, Sujit has travelled across the country taking intensive, day-long classes on how to make this fermented bread, as well as hosted classes at his home in Goa. Now, he has had many enquiries for online classes but so far he has demurred. “I can’t ship the starter, then how?” he wonders, since he uses his own starter for his sessions, and then gives some to participants, so they can start making sourdough with it. He also has starters of varying vintages and geography. A starter is the cultivation of wild yeast in a form that can be used for baking; wild yeast is present in all flour. It is used instead of yeast, for fermentation. Selvan Thandapani of Bengaluru’s Sour House (sourhouse.in) has been, for the last one week, posting short tutorial videos of how to make a starter. In each video he shows how the starter should look, grow, be discarded and ‘fed’. Thandapani conducts workshops and retails too. He uses 20 gm of all-purpose flour mixed with an equal amount of water, stored in a 150-200 ml transparent container at room temperature in warm cities. The container should be loosely covered — either a cap or cheesecloth. Each day, after the first 24 hours, around three-fourths of it is discarded and more flour and water added to remaining mixture to ‘feed’ it. This is done for five to seven days. Delhi-based expert Anita Tikoo, who conducts sourdough workshops, says the current shortage of bread in supermarkets and more time at hand are reasons for the surge in interest. “People need something to keep them occupied; they would have thought about baking earlier, but didn’t have the time to follow up. Now there is time,” she says. She recently conducted a live sourdough starter session via her Instagram handle (a_madteaparty). When Tikoo announced it, she had more than 250 requests to participate. She has since been getting regular updates on the starters. “There is a lot of excitement about it on Instagram, especially about making the starter from scratch. It is a great distraction and one can get very involved in the process,” she continues, “I want to remove the air of mystery around it. It is not intimidating and everybody can do it.” Side treats Sourdough bread is said to have many benefits as opposed to yeast-made bread, especially due to the use of the starter, making it easy to digest. Tikoo recently conducted a live session of how to make crumpets using the discard, “The discard is the leftover starter. You take a small amount of starter to make a fresh batch. The rest is called discard but can be used to cook a host of leavened breads from waffles and pancakes to pita and parathas.” The starter or discard can be added to the flour and mixed, depending on the bread one intends to bake. Dough for traditional Indian breads such as parathas are not fermented, but adding starter leavens it. This is Bengaluru-based Sufiya D’s first tryst with sourdough. “I have wanted to do this for sometime but never had the time. Now with the lockdown, I finally got down to it,” she says. She follows Tikoo and a few YouTubers for tips. It has been a week now and her starter is ready; she is excited about how it is turning out. The approach of bakers is cautious; they don’t want to waste ingredients and stretch resources. Like Anita Singh (whose Instagram handle is sourdoughbakesandfermentation) of Mumbai, who conducts workshops and bakes commercially. Singh says, “I have not been baking more as I have to be careful with the ingredients, since the lockdown is complete here. I use things that we have at home — wheat, millet, semolina — luckily we have a stock of whole wheat flour at home. I bake when we are done with our bread at home.” Adds Tikoo says, “It is also about mindfulness. Watching the starter grow is meditative and calming. You have to pay attention to it and be very involved with it. It also gives people a sense of community, of belonging, while inherently being a process suited to being on your own, being alone.” She, and others like Thandapani, suggest naming the starter; Sufiya calls hers ‘Bubbly’ while Thandapani called one of his ‘Gloopy’. As Tikoo says, “You think of it as your own, as something living — a pet. It occupies the mind positively.”  Give thy neighbour Although Sujit Sumitran is not conducting online classes for the time being, he has his hands full with baking — for his neighbours. “Here, in Goa, people eat a lot of bread — in the morning and evening. Only lunch would be something else like rice. Bread is important and there is not too much of it available now,” he says. One of the first batches of enriched loaves, he says on his Instagram handle, “has Goan jaggery, eggs, butter and milk instead of water.” The inclusions on some are blue poppy seeds and lemon pepper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/time-to-start-your-sourdough/article31243028.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Saturday night party||“Hi, where are you from?” A man breathes into my ear. But he isn’t talking to me, he is talking to another woman on this public group chat that I have entered on Rave. It is a multimedia messenger app that allows users to watch videos in sync, while also texting and speaking via VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol). “Argentina,” the woman breathes back while 14 of us are trying to watch Annabelle: Creation on Netflix. My phone pings, announcing that standup comic Aaquib Jaleel is live with House of T, hosting a quiz on Instagram. I discreetly leave the ASMR conversation at Rave to wash my ears and switch to the ‘Gram. Weekend pub-hopping has never really been my scene. But given that the world is currently practising physical distancing, the desperation for friends, acquaintances, or strangers to fill the silences in our homes is reaching a crescendo. So, pub-hopping has today mutated into app-hopping. And that is something I can get behind. I’ve been cruising the dirty lanes of Craigslist since I was 17. *** The Instagram live quiz is going well: I learnt that Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs is the first feature length animation, and Leo Fender, inventor of Fender guitars, couldn’t actually play one. Unexpectedly though, I get a call via the Dialup app, from QuarantineChat. This app arbitrarily connects you to any of its over-1,000 users across the globe. That is how I met Andrei, a Romanian warehouse worker who has been living near Yorkshire, UK, for the past three years. We take five minutes to adjust to each others’ accents, but in the next 30 minutes, the 49-year-old describes his life in Yorkshire, how he met his wife, and why he loves that she is as good at fixing things as he is. I tell him about all the cats and dogs I’ve known and how my parents live up in the hills, while I’m spending my years near the sea. “If I could give my 20-year-old self some advice, I’d tell him to live without fear, without worrying about what other people think of you,” he says in his gruff, slow voice. I am reminded of what Nishad, a 25-year-old from Mumbai I met through QuarantineChat, had told me about his experience speaking to a woman in her 50s, “There was so much warmth in her voice. You know she didn’t spend her time texting people on screens, like people of our generation.” *** Ican’t dwell too much on philosophical discussions, however. Because I am super popular, I have a House Party scheduled in half an hour, and I have to slap on some lipstick for it. This is one of the precious few times I (virtually) meet fellow humans, and I’m not doing it in pyjamas. Not even if it is to play yet another game while facetiming with five buddies. We can get competitive. I consider heading back to Rave after the House Party. But the scene there is dead: the Shrek watch party speaks a different language, with zero Eddie Murphy references, and the only person talking to me is a certain Diego asking if I’m on Snapchat. Instead, I convince one of my friends to download Squad. I’m constantly on the lookout for new places to meet the same eight friends I have, and this particular app allows screen sharing. Which means no more screenshots, you can spill tea in real time as your friend’s screen movements and vidoes come alive in yours. Mind you, downloading these apps, including House Party and Zoom, among others, means giving over a whole lot of personal information to third parties. So you might want to rethink who’s really spilling the tea here. The moon is rising, and I open up a bottle of wine to drink with my college friends living in Italy, US, and Germany, over Google Hangouts. We might dim the lights and turn it into a dance party — we have already made a joint Spotify playlist. I need to sleep soon though; I have RSVP’d “yes” to a Brooklyn 99 Netflix Party with my sister for brunch.  Serendipity Founders of QuarantineChat and Dialup, Danielle Baskin and Max Hawkins met at a Halloween party in San Francisco in 2016. They used the app Dialup to stay in touch before releasing it publicly last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/saturday-night-party/article31243007.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Comfort food in uncomfortable times||In these difficult times, it’s nice to turn to something that can be called comfort food. My lunch-time favourite meal consists of dal , chawal , and crispy fried potatoes. And while the comfort food takes different forms in the evenings, one constant favourite of mine is shredded lamb, cooked in the Oriental style. There was a time when I wouldn’t have a Chinese meal if it didn’t include shredded lamb in hot garlic sauce. We had it so often that the family finally revolted. I was forced to try out other kinds of lamb dishes, which I did – but the heart remained lost in my memories of lamb in hot garlic sauce. After all these years, I think I have found a new object of worship. It’s a dish called stir-fried sliced lamb spicy mustard. Last week, I was surfing the Net to see if I could order food from somewhere. We all wanted Oriental, after having feasted on biryanis and qormas , so I looked up some places, and zeroed in one when I saw that it had garnered several stars on Swiggy. The place is called Oriental Mom (Ph no: 011-45552728) and has six delivery outlets. It does its own delivery but also goes through food apps. The base kitchen is in Pitampura. Most popular on their menu are the dimsums, which come with various kinds of fillings such as Crystal Vegetables, Kaffir Lime and Greens, Hunan Mushroom, Prawn with Truffle Oil, and Chicken with Scallion, Garlic and Shallots. The most popular of all is something called the Original Juicy Chicken. I had ordered Diced Chicken, Soya, Ginger and Wine (Rs. 345), Green Thai Chicken Curry (Rs. 375), Asian Greens (Rs. 295) and, to get back to my lamb saga, Stir Fried Sliced Lamb Spicy Mustard (Rs. 365). Before I tell you about the lamb, let me describe the other dishes. The greens were excellent –crispy pak choy, Chinese cabbage, broccoli and baby corn sautéed in light soya and garlic. I am very fond of Thai green curry, and this was rather nice, with pieces of ginger, a mildly sweet and aromatic sauce, and chunks of chicken which had soaked in the flavours. The diced chicken, nicely succulent, came in a strong soya-led sauce that I quite enjoyed. But the dish that stole my heart was the lamb. I have never had Chinese lamb in a mustard sauce. But this worked really well. The sauce was so good that I actually lapped it up with a bit of plain rice at the end of the meal. It was sharp, without being pungent, and had a delicious aftertaste of heady mustard and chillies. The dishes were all a bit hot, but I am not complaining. I see that the menu includes Pan-fried Fish with Spicy Garlic (Rs. 395), Stir-fried Prawns in Black Pepper (Rs. 495), Garlic Tofu (Rs. 350), Crispy Lamb Hunan Style (Rs. 455), Vegetarian Nasi Goring with Satay (Rs. 290), Tangy Black Pepper Noodles (Rs. 260 with chicken), and Chicken Fried Rice (Rs. 240). The outfit has four main sauces -- soya-ginger, fragrant black bean, spicy garlic and spicy mustard. And the noodles are made from scratch, Oriental Mom tells us. When the world is locked in, it’s nice to find an open window. It’s nicer still to find a new version of an old favourite. Comfort food, after all, can always move with the times. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/comfort-food-in-uncomfortable-times/article31243012.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Covid 19: Coimbatore-based companies manufacture 3D-printed face shields for sanitation workers||It was the morning of the Janata Curfew. Ebin Ephrem Elavathingal, senior manager of AIC RAISE (an incubator backed by the Government of India under the NITI Aayog Programme); Hari Vigneshwaran, founder of Augment 3Di; and Vigneshwaran S, founder of Virtual Frontier Robotics were watching the news on television. “All of us are engineers and wanted to do something to help. Vigneshwaran told us about face shields being 3D-printed in a lab in Italy,” says Ebin. Over the next three hours, the team researched face shields and designs. “We could not find any open-source design and so we decided to develop one ourselves. Vigneshwaran and Hari have 3D printers and we put them to work. We did the entire discussion and designing over video calls,” he adds. Their first shield was ready on the same day, but the process took four hours. “So we reworked the design till each mask took an hour to make. We developed 350 masks and donated them to sanitation workers in Coimbatore. It covers the entire face and can be reused after cleaning with soap,” Ebin says. Of the 350 shields, 250 were directly given to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital. “The rest was donated to Coimbatore Corporation-South Zone in association with Rathinam Group of Institutions,” he says. Soon after the group posted photographs of the product on their social media, requests flooded in from across the country. “Our production capacity was limited. So we decided to open-source our design. Now anyone can use it free of cost. All one has to do is feed the memory card with the design into the 3D printing press,” Ebin explains. The team now plans to move into mass production. “We hope to make 1000 masks a day. We are looking for donors who can support us. Each mask costs Rs. 90 to make.” They are now working on a design to 3D-print ventilators. “It is a complex design. We have designed 60% of it. We should be done in the next few days. We hope to get a working model soon,” Ebin concludes. Call 7708019222 for details; visit Aicraise.com/facemask3dprint to download the design||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/covid-19-coimbatore-based-companies-manufacture-3d-printed-face-shields-for-sanitation-workers/article31243029.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A Twelve-Year Night||I loved this movie and was reminded of Vaikom Muhammad Basheer’s Mathilukal novel. A Twelve-Year Night is both political and a survival drama. What was striking for me was the way sound was used as a character. It is based on the real-life story of the former Uruguayan President Jose Mujica.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-twelve-year-night/article31243013.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Abstract: The Art of Design||The show is about reputed designers from all over the world. It offers a peek into the life of designers and their design concepts. For example, there is an episode about how the Instagram logo was designed. It is very interesting and I would strongly suggest this. I am also using this time to revisit Breaking Bad .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/abstract-the-art-of-design/article31243014.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales by Light||I really liked Tales by Light , which is an insight into the world of photography. The series follows the life of sought-after photographers from Australia and the other countries. It is pensive and beautifully-shot. Wild Wild Country is another TV show I would recommend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-by-light/article31243015.ece
03 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Migrants in distress seek help from Union Minister on Twitter||Fast running out of cash and ration, more than two dozen migrant workers of a furniture exporter company at Industrial Model Township in Manesar here, reached out to local Lok Sabha MP and Union Minister Rao Inderjit Singh, on Twitter seeking help. Money and ration Sanjay, a migrant worker from Bihar, said he along with fellow workers, at “Heritage Furniture”, were “trapped” in their rented accommodation because of the nationwide lockdown without any help from outside and were fast running out of supplies and money. Searching online for any possible contact for help, they stumbled upon the mobile number of one Sunil Yadav, who had shared his contact details on Facebook, offering to help the needy migrant workers. They called him to narrate their ordeal. Later, a tweet was posted from the official handle of Rashtriya Janata Dal tagging the Minister on Thursday afternoon seeking help for the workers. The tweet also carried a photo of a paper with the names and contact numbers of the workers. Ashok, one of the workers, said that he received a call on his mobile number from the Minister himself within minutes after the tweet with the promise to help. Fear of police Another worker, Santosh, said they were managing with the little cash they had, but were running out of essentials fast. “We did not venture out to walk to the relief centre fearing that the police might beat us,” said Santosh. Sanjay said, “Though a large number of migrant workers had left after the lockdown was announced, they preferred to stay back to avoid the crowd. The aim of the lockdown was to avoid crowds. Had we stepped out to go to our home village in Bihar, the purpose would have been defeated,” said Sanjay, a migrant worker. He also said they did not have money to pay the room rent.  The aim of the lockdown was to avoid crowds. Had we stepped out to go to our home village in Bihar, the purpose would have been defeated  Sanjay  Migrant worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/migrants-in-distress-seek-help-from-union-minister-on-twitter/article31243002.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||No money, hundreds of jobless migrants find shelter at govt. school||Hundreds of migrant workers and some people, who were shifted from the Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara, are now lodged at a government school in north Delhi’s Nehru Vihar. Due to the lockdown after the COVID-19 outbreak, many of them have lost their jobs and are unable to return to their hometowns. “Our hands are tied,” they said, adding that they are solely dependent on the food and shelter provided by the authorities. Ramkaran Das, a migrant worker from Bihar, said: “It has been months since we visited home. Ideally, during such difficult times, one would want to stay closer to their families. Even if we want to go, we can’t. For us, there is no option other than to continue living here and take whatever help we get.” Another worker Charan Kumar said it is the beginning of a new month and “there is depreciated cash in hand, as a result of which buying groceries is not an option”. Out of jobs “On usual days, we cooked for ourselves in our rented accommodations. Now, we have no money to spend. We have come to this school so that we do not have to worry about our meals and there is a roof over our heads,” he added. Sunil Saha, a 28-year-old migrant worker from Bhagalpur, added that even if there is a will, there are no resources” for the workers to be with their families. “We have heard about how a lot of workers were walking back to their homes but ours are 1,200-1,300 km away. There are no means of transportation available because of the lockdown and it is impossible for us to even think of such a journey on foot. Even though I have lived in this city for almost 16 years now, the virus has made things so much more difficult. What other option do we have other than depending on others for help?” asked Mr. Saha. The food served inside the school is the langar that is prepared at the nearby Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara. Similarly, several gurudwaras across the city under the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee are preparing langar , which is then taken to different locations for distribution. Entry to gurdwaras shut Even though entry to gurdwaras is currently closed, outside the Sisganj Gurdwara at Chandni Chowk, authorities have made marked areas to ensure enforcement of social distancing when the langar is distributed. Sitting on a sidewalk, next to a newly-tiled path under the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, Suresh Sahni, a differently abled person said: “I have been here all my life and have never seen this area empty. Everyone is scared of stepping out because of government order. For people like me, who used to depend on small mercies from passers-by, even that is lost now. The food provided by the gurdwara is all we depend on now. Sometimes we take it from the nearby mandir but majorly from the gurdwara.” “What can we say? Our lives have always been like this. The only difference is that earlier help would usually come from people and now it comes directly from the Almighty’s place,” the 58-year-old added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-money-hundreds-of-jobless-migrants-find-shelter-at-govt-school/article31243000.ece
03 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||After Noida DM, U.P. govt. replaces CMO||The Uttar Pradesh government has transferred Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Anurag Bhargav a day after COVID-19-positive persons in the district touched 48 — the highest in the State. The move came days after Noida District Magistrate B.N. Singh was replaced by the government. Dr. Bhargav has been replaced by A.P. Chaturvedi, Joint Director, Directorate of Family Welfare. On March 30, The Hindu reported that the decision was on the cards as the CMO was taken to task by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath when he visited the district to take stock of the situation. On Wednesday, 10 more people were tested positive for COVID-19. Out of the total number of cases in the district, many have been linked to one fire safety firm. Dr. Bhargav has been attached to the office of CEO of Greater Noida Narendra Bhooshan, who has been appointed the nodal officer to address the COVID-19 outbreak. Meanwhile, 11 persons were arrested on Thursday for allegedly praying in a group on a rooftop in JJ Cluster Sector 16, violating the restrictions imposed during the lockdown. The police arrested Sadiq, who led the prayer, and 10 others, said Deputy Commissioner ( Zone-1 Noida) Sankalp Sharma confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-noida-dm-up-govt-replaces-cmo/article31243001.ece
03 April 2020||New Delhi,||Case filed against gurdwara||The Delhi Police has registered a case against Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara, where over 200 people were stranded during the nationwide lockdown amid the COVID-19 outbreak, officials said on Thursday. A total of 225 people, who wanted to travel to Punjab, were residing in the gurdwara. Most of them were Punjab-based labourers employed at various places in Delhi-NCR. The case was registered under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Sec.270, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/case-filed-against-gurdwara/article31243004.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Online comic act||That Comedy Club is producing stand-up comedy shows on Instagram every night. Started on the first day of the nation-wide lockdown, they have a line-up of comedians who present jokes from their homes. It is a pay-as-you-like event and will feature the likes of Shamik Chakrabarti, Sumaira Shaikh and Neville Shah. Venue:Instagram.com/thatcomedyclub; register at Bookmyshow,com Time:10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-comic-act/article31243017.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||At home activities||Chennai-based children's publishing house Tulika Books has started free online activities around their books during this lockdown period. This will feature digital book reading and worksheet assignments by educators every day. Other activities include quiz programmes, simple maths, games and colouring. You can also post your imaginative creations on their social media. Venue:Tulikabooks.com Time:All day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-home-activities/article31243019.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Film fest||Purnam, a family of friends inspired by the praxis of purna yoga, along with Ritambhara, a space for contemplative conversations fostered by a community of seekers, is jointly hosting The New Emergence Film Festival. The fest will feature a film that is already available online and later the registered participants will discuss it on Zoom on Saturdays. Venue:Bit.ly/NewEmergenceREG Time:8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/film-fest/article31243021.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Read at home||Publishers Hachette India presents #IndiaReadsAtHome, a series of activities across their social media channels for the next few weeks. In addition to virtual author sessions that include book readings, essential exercises and cooking tutorials, there will also be book recommendations and a bookstagram challenge. Today’s is to post a book set in the future. Venue:Facebook.com/HachetteIndia Time:10 a.m. - 7:30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/read-at-home/article31243023.ece
03 April 2020||April 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Online Yoga classes||Mumbai-based fitness trainer Abhishek Sharma is conducting free online live yoga classes every morning. Each session includes elements of classical yoga and holistic fitness exercise, workshops and retreats. If you are not able to join the live session, you can replay it later and do it at your own time. Venue:Facebook.com/AbhishekSharmaYogaFitness Time:Weekdays 8:30 a.m.; Weekends 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-yoga-classes/article31243025.ece
