03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Question Hour dropped in LS schedule of monsoon session||The Lok Sabha Secretariat on Wednesday officially released the schedule for the monsoon Parliament session that starts on September 14, with Question Hour being dropped. Opposition leaders, including Congress leader in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, had written to Speaker Om Birla not to curtail Question Hour as it amounted to “encroaching upon a member’s right” and denied them an opportunity to question the government. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, private members business, usually fixed for every Friday, has also been skipped. ‘Extraordinary situation’ Asked about protests from the Opposition on Question Hour cancellation, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said Parliament was being held in the midst of an extraordinary situation. He said his colleague, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, was in touch with all parties, holding talks and would update at an appropriate time. In a statement late in the evening, Mr. Joshi said the Lok Sabha Speaker and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu were discussing the possibility of allowing unstarred questions, answers to which are given in writing and laid on the floor of the House. Mr. Joshi also said that except Trinamool Congress leader Derek O Brien, other leaders didn’t strongly object to cancelling the Question Hour. Mr. Joshi said they had requested the presiding officers of both Houses to have Zero Hour — when an MP can raise any important issue — for at least 30 minutes. The session will have staggered timings to accommodate members of one House in both chambers and follow strict physical distancing norms. On the first day, the Lok Sabha will have proceedings from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. From September 15 to October 1, it will sit from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. Similarly, on September 14, the Rajya Sabha will sit from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. From the second day, it will transact business between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/question-hour-dropped-in-ls-schedule-of-monsoon-session/article32509509.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India-China talks at Chushul remain inconclusive||The third day of Brigadier-level talks on Wednesday between India and China at Chushul to de-escalate the situation on the South Bank of Pangong Tso remained inconclusive. An Army source confirmed that a soldier from the secretive Special Frontier Force (SFF) was killed in an accidental mine explosion while patrolling in the area on August 30. “The talks remained inconclusive and will continue on Thursday,” a defence source said. Tension running high The talks are important as tensions are still running high in the Chushul sector, with a large number of troops deployed on both sides very close to each other along the disputed boundary. Company Leader Nyima Tenzin from the commando unit SFF, also called Vikas Battalions, was killed in a blast when he stepped on a vintage 1962 minefield during patrolling, the Army source said. One soldier was injured in the accident. The same was not a result of Chinese action or the action in the South Bank of Pangong Tso, the source added. There have been reports of the SFF being used in the recent action to dominate the peaks on the Indian side of the LAC (Line of Actual Control) on September 29 and 30. However, there has been no comment on this from the Army. The Army brought in additional troops following the developments on the night of August 29 and 30 on the South Bank, triggered by “provocative movements” by PLA troops and to pre-empt them from dominating the heights in the Chushul sector near the Spanggur Gap. The action is centred around the Black Top area and around Rezang La and Rechin La. At the same time, the Army also strengthened its positions on the North Bank as a precaution. “As part of the precautionary deployment carried out on August 30, some readjustments of our positions on North Bank of Pangong Tso on our side of to the Line of Actual Control had also been carried out,” the source stated. On August 29, PLA troops came towards Rezang La but they were pushed back, a second source said. On Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs said Chinese troops had engaged in “provocative action” along the disputed boundary once again on August 31 even as the Brigadier level talks were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-talks-at-chushul-remain-inconclusive/article32509503.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. bans PUBG, WeChat Work, 116 other mobile apps||The government on Wednesday banned 118 applications — a majority being Chinese, including popular ones such as PUBG, WeChat Work, Baidu, CamCard, Rise of Kingdoms: Lost Crusade and Alipay, stating that these were “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of State and public order”. This is in addition to the ban on 59 Chinese applications, including TikTok, Shareit, Mi Video Call, Club Factory and Cam Scanner, in June last. Wednesday’s announcement comes amid renewed tensions between India and China owing to the stand-off on the disputed boundary in Ladakh that has been on since May 2020. In a statement, the government said this move would safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and Internet users and the decision was a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) said it was invoking its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009, and “in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 118 mobile apps…[that are] engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. Complaints of misuse The Ministry said it had received many complaints about the misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers that have locations outside India. “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” it stated. Additionally, the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, Ministry of Home Affairs, has sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these “malicious apps” and similar bipartisan concerns have been flagged by various public representatives, both outside and inside Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-bans-pubg-wechat-work-116-other-mobile-apps/article32509507.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,||5 Pawan fans killed in accident||Less than an hour after they celebrated Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan’s birthday, five of his fans were killed when a sand-laden lorry collided with the car in which they were travelling in Warangal district in the wee hours of Wednesday. The victims were on their way to Mulugu, about 50 km from Warangal town, to drop one of them after cutting a cake and celebrating the Jana Sena Party chief’s birthday. A sand-laden lorry on its way to Hyderabad from Kaleshwaram hit the car from the opposite direction and as a result, five of the occupants of the car died on the spot. The accident took place between 1 a.m. and 1.30 a.m. at Pasaragonda Crossroads in Damera Mandal, said the police. The victims were identified as Mekala Rakesh from Warangal, Kande Jayaprakash of Hanomakonda, Medichandu Rohit, Naresh and Sabir, all aged around 25 years. Jayaprakash was behind the wheel. Speaking to The Hindu , Damera Sub-Inspector Bhaskar Reddy said that both lorry driver and Jayaprakash lost control over the wheels and collided head-on. The bodies were shifted to MGM Hospital, Warangal, for autopsy after they were retrieved from the mangled car. A case was registered against the lorry driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-pawan-fans-killed-in-accident/article32509782.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||I was not allowed to speak at Justice Mishra send-off: Dave||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, wrote to Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde expressing his “strong disappointment and condemnation” at the way in which he was “prevented” from speaking at the virtual farewell ceremony for Justice Arun Mishra on Wednesday. A source in the Supreme Court said it was a “technical glitch” and other participants, including judges, faced connectivity issues at the time. Mr. Dave refused to accept the explanation. He said Registry officials call to enquire if there is a connectivity issue. He had received no such calls. Mr. Dave said he would not participate in any function organised by the court till his term as SCBA president ends in December. He had defended advocate Prashant Bhushan in a suo motu contempt action recently. “I must confess, the Supreme Court has come to such levels where the judges are afraid of the Bar. Please do remember, judges come and go, but we the Bar remain constant. We are the real strength of this great institution because we are permanent,” Mr. Dave wrote in the letter shared with the media. He copied his short address wishing Justice Mishra well, in the letter to the CJI. He indicated that he may have been prevented for fear that “I might say something unpleasant”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-was-not-allowed-to-speak-at-justice-mishra-send-off-dave/article32509505.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Metro to pick up pace in three stages||The Delhi Metro is set to resume operations from September 7 in a graded manner with staggered timings, beginning with eight hours of services on the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro, Gurugram. The metro operations will restart in three stages. Under stage 1, services will resume between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. and between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m., the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said. The other lines to become operational in the first stage are the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21 to Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) and Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) on September 9. This will be followed by the Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal), Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Bahadurgarh) and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Ballabgarh) on September 10. In the second stage, services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh) will be made operational on September 11. With Stage 2 kicking in, metro timings will be extended to 12 hours a day. The Airport Express Line will be made operational in the last stage on September 12, when services will be made available throughout the day across all lines. DMRC Managing Director Mangu Singh said, “All lines will not be opened in one go. The hours of operation will be gradually increased. We will keep a close watch and if any correction is required, we will do it.” “Trains will not stop at stations falling in containment zones. Some of the stations may be skipped if social distancing is not adhered to by the passengers,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. The Noida Metro Rail Corporation said services on the Aqua Line will resume from September 7. “Trains will run from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 9 p.m., with a frequency of 15 minutes, from Monday to Saturday. On Sundays, the services will start from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-metro-to-pick-up-pace-in-three-stages/article32509695.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports more recoveries than new cases||Kerala reported 1,547 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 78,072. The number of recoveries so far reported in the State has reached 55,778, leaving the number of active cases to be 21,923. On Wednesday, 2,129 recoveries were reported, which was more than the new cases. The official death toll of the State has reached 305, with the Health Department adding seven more deaths to its provisional list of COVID deaths. The deaths reported were three each in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, and one in Kasaragod. The final official toll of the State would be revealed only after the State death audit committee scrutinised the cause of death. Low testing The sudden dip in the daily case burden of the State for the third consecutive day, by over a thousand cases, was once again attributed to the fewer number of samples tested than usual. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 23,850 much lesser than the normal target of the State, which had been hovering around 40,000. Continuing the trend and establishing the intensity of community transmission, about 94 % of the news cases – 1,461 out of the 1,547 new cases – are locally acquired infections, with 36 more health-care workers affected on Wednesday. In 156 cases, the source of infection remains untraceable. Thiruvananthapuram reported 228 cases, of which 217 were from local transmission, including that of 16 health-care workers. Kozhikode reported 204 cases, Alappuzha 159, Malappuram 146, Kottayam 145, Kannur 142, Ernakulam 136, Thrissur 121, Kasaragod 88, Kollam 81, Wayanad 38, Palakkad 30, Pathanamthitta 17, and Idukki 12. There are 577 hotspots in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-more-recoveries-than-new-cases/article32509849.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Staggered start to Metro from Sept. 7||Metro rail services in the country, except in Maharashtra, will resume in a staggered manner from September 7. If all goes well, that is if passengers follow social distancing and other COVID-19 related safety norms, normal operations could resume from September 12, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said on Wednesday. He said the decision would be reviewed if social distancing was not followed, and crowding was seen on the networks. Mr. Puri addressed a press conference to announce the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Metro trains, which have remained suspended for over five months due to the pandemic, after the Ministry of Home Affairs gave the go-ahead on August 28. Only asymptomatic people will be allowed to enter stations after thermal screening, and face masks will be mandatory for all passengers and staff. While not mandatory, the use of the government’s Aarogya Setu app would be “encouraged”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/staggered-start-to-metro-from-sept-7/article32509501.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Inter-district bus, rail services to resume from Sept. 7 in T.N.||Inter-district bus and passenger train services will resume in Tamil Nadu from September 7, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced on Wednesday. Government and private buses can ply by adhering to the standard operating procedure. The government’s decision follows representations from the public for the resumption of services to facilitate business and work-related travel to other districts. While welcoming the decision, private bus operators, however, indicated that they would not be in a position to resume services until buses were allowed to operate at full capacity. The Federation of Bus Operators’ Associations of Tamil Nadu contended that the restrictions on occupancy would be economically unviable, given the operational costs and overheads. “We urge the Chief Minister to allow us to operate at full seating capacity. Only then will we be willing to resume services even if standees are disallowed,” federation secretary D.R. Dharmaraj said. He claimed that full occupancy was allowed in States such as Kerala, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Meanwhile, on day two of the resumption of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation bus services in Chennai, there were concerns about COVID-19 safety protocols being compromised on some routes. Safety concerns For instance, on a bus plying on route number 71 between Tirunindravur and Broadway, all seats were occupied, violating the 50% occupancy (24 seats) limit. Many passengers were seen standing in close proximity to each other. “Most of them were office-goers. Such packed buses are unsafe for travel during the pandemic. The MTC should run more buses,” said K. Murugesan, an elderly commuter at the Lucas bus stop. An MTC conductor said some commuters got agitated when they were not allowed to board a bus. “Some even go to the extent of damaging the vehicle,” he said, adding, “It would be helpful if police personnel are posted at important bus stops during peak hours to regulate the crowd.” K. Natarajan, treasurer, Labour Progressive Federation, said, “The safety of the bus crew and passengers is more important than revenue.” “Only one or two buses were crowded. We will increase the number of buses depending on passenger traffic. We have instructed the crew to drive to the nearest police station if commuters forcibly enter the vehicle and flout personal distancing norms,” an MTC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-district-bus-rail-services-to-resume-from-sept-7-in-tn/article32509606.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||2,892 COVID cases recorded in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed 1.3 lakh as 2,892 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. While 59,421 samples were tested on September 1, results of 2,255 samples are awaited. Those who underwent screening include 26,739 who were primary contacts, and 8,319 secondary contacts. The toll reached 846 as 10 more COVID-19 patients died. The new 2,892 cases include 477 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 234 from Rangareddy, 192 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 174 from Nalgonda, 152 from Karimnagar, 128 from Khammam, 116 from Warangal Urban, 110 from Nizamabad, 108 each from Siddipet and Suryapet, and 102 from Jagtial. Apart from GHMC, ten districts recorded over 100 cases indicating that patients numbers are shooting up in other districts. Death toll at 846 Till September 2, a total of 1,30,589 cases were detected in the State, which include 32,341 active cases, 97,402 who have recovered and 846 deaths. A total of 14,83,267 samples were put to tests. In 42 State government hospitals, 3,412 oxygen beds, and 556 ICU beds were available on Tuesday. In case of 187 private hospitals 2,145 oxygen beds, and 1,153 ICU beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2892-covid-cases-recorded-in-telangana/article32509783.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||GST: State to go with first of the two options offered by Centre||The Karnataka government on Wednesday decided to opt for the first of the two options offered by the Centre of borrowing to meet the shortfall in the goods and services tax (GST), under which the State will be eligible for a total compensation of Rs. 18,289 crore. The decision was taken after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, held discussions with Finance Department officials. “After evaluating the two options, it is felt that option one would be more beneficial to the State’s finances,” a release from the government stated. It said this would help the State augment its revenue in the 2020–21 financial year. Under option one, Karnataka would be eligible for a total compensation of Rs. 18,289 crore, of which Rs. 6,965 crore would come from the cess collected. For the remaining Rs. 11,324 crore, the State would be able to borrow through a special window with the entire burden of principal and interest repayment being met out of the compensation cess fund in the future, it said. Further, an additional borrowing of up to 1% of the GSDP (Rs. 18,036 crore) will be available unconditionally and another 1% borrowing can be linked to certain reforms as suggested by the Centre. Under option two, the State would have been eligible for a total compensation of Rs. 25,508 crore, out of which Rs. 6,965 crore would come from the cess collected. The remaining amount of Rs. 18,543 crore would be allowed to be borrowed through an issue of market debt. However, in this option, unconditional borrowing of 1% of the GSDP would not be separately available to the State, as a result of which the net borrowing will reduce substantially by Rs. 10,817 crore, the release explained. Further, under option two, the interest on the borrowing through issue of market debt is to be paid by the State from its own resources, it added. During the GST Council meeting last week, the Union government wrote to States suggesting options of borrowing money to make up for the Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in the GST expected in the ongoing fiscal. The Centre has estimated that of this amount, Rs. 97,000 crore compensation requirement is owing to GST rollout and the remaining is on account of the COVID-19 impact on the economy. Giving two options, the Centre had said States can borrow either Rs. 97,000 crore deficit arising out of GST implementation or the entire Rs. 2.35 lakh crore. Non-BJP ruled States have rejected the Centre’s suggestion of States borrowing to make up for the GST shortfall, saying the Constitutional liability lies with the Centre. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represented the State in the GST Council, said Karnataka has to get Rs. 13,764 crore GST compensation from the Centre for the last four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-state-to-go-with-first-of-the-two-options-offered-by-centre/article32509559.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Over 10k cases for eighth day in a row||The State has again reported over 10,000 new infections in a day making it the eighth consecutive day. With 10,392 new infections reported in the past 24 hours as of Wednesday morning, the tally has increased to 4,55,531. The death toll went up to 4,125 with 72 new deaths. As many as 8,454 patients have recovered in the past day and the number of recoveries also increased to 3,48,330 registering a recovery rate of 76.47%. With 1,03,076 active cases currently, the State continues to be in the second position in the country after Maharashtra. In the past eight days, 83,892 infections were reported. The overall positivity rate has slightly increased to 11.85%, as a total of 38,43,550 samples were tested so far, including the 60,804 samples in the past day. The tests per million ratio has gone up to 71, 976 and the cases per million also increased to 8,531. About 7.20% of the State’s population has been tested so far and 0.85% of the 5.34 crore population was infected. Nellore and Chittoor continue to see a large number of deaths daily. Nellore reported 11 deaths while Chittoor reported 10 deaths. The latter has so far witnessed 439 deaths, highest in the State. West Godavari reported nine deaths while Prakasam reported eight, Visakhapatnam and Krishna reported six each, East Godavari, Guntur, Anantapur and Srikakulam reported four each, Vizianagaram reported three, Kadapa two and Kurnool reported one death. East Godavari and Chittoor reported over a thousand new infections at 1,199 and 1,124 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-10k-cases-for-eighth-day-in-a-row/article32509494.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Individuals can carry 3 liquor bottles, says HC||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday ordered that individuals be permitted to possess three bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) as per G.O. Ms.No.411 issued by the Excise Department in September 2019. A single-Judge Bench consisting of Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu said in the order that the petitioners — K. Srinivasulu, E. Anand, M. Hema Sundar, S. Nageswara Rao and N. Raju Satish (all from Maturu village in Anakapalli mandal of Visakhapatnam district) — were entitled to possess the above number of IMFL bottles and a prima facie reading of the FIR showed that only three bottles of 750 ml each were seized from them. Therefore, the proceedings in the relevant crime (registered in Rampachodavaram police station) should be stayed, Justice Somayajulu ruled. It was stated in the G.O. that a person could have in possession the following maximum quantities of intoxicants at a time without any permit or license with effect from September 25, 2019: IMFL and foreign liquor: three bottles of any size, denatured / methylated spirit: three bulk litres, beer: six bottles of 650 ml each and toddy: two bulk litres. The petitioners have contended that cases were being booked in spite of the individual entitlement to carry the stipulated numbers of liquor bottles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/individuals-can-carry-3-liquor-bottles-says-hc/article32509495.ece
03 September 2020||Pune,||At 17,433, Maharashtra records highest surge||In its highest single-day spike so far, Maharashtra reported 17,433 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its case tally to 8,25,739. As many as 292 more patients succumbed, taking the death toll to 25,195. The number of active cases in the State has crossed the two lakh mark to reach 2,01,703. As many as 13,959 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries till date to 5,98,496. Of the 292 deaths recorded, 201 fatalities are from the last 48 hours while 55 have occurred last week. The remaining 36 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said. “Of 42,84,000 samples tested, 8,25,739 (19.27%) have returned positive. The recovery rate is 72.48%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-17433-maharashtra-records-highest-surge/article32509974.ece
03 September 2020||Kolkata,||‘Don’t belie trust between States, Centre on GST’||Describing the denial of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the States as an “insufferable blow to federalist policy of our nation,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him “not to belie the trust between the States and Centre on matters of GST”. “When the consensus was arrived at between all the Finance Ministers of the countryand the Centre that Parliament shall compensate the State for five years, there was no legalist approach taken by bring in AG (Attorney General), since it was a matter of full cooperation between the Centre and the States,” Ms. Banerjee said. Objecting to the Centre taking legal opinions on the issue, the CM said it “appears to be act of subterfuge to undermine the trust reposed by the States in the spirit of cooperative federalism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-belie-trust-between-states-centre-on-gst/article32509917.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Chargesheet against 5 for terror links||The National Investigation Agency has filed a chargesheet against five accused who owed allegiance to the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) for allegedly “conspiring to utilise the anti-CAA protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian Government”. The NIA said the accused — Jahanzaib Sami, 36, Hina Bashir Beigh, 39, Abdullah Basith, 26, Sadiya Anwar Shaikh, 20, and Nabeel Siddick Khatri, 27 — instigated Muslims by “coining seditious slogans and making graffiti at public places and highlighting the same on social media”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-against-5-for-terror-links/article32509700.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. seeks CBI inquiry into murders||The Congress has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder of two DYFI workers in Venjaramoodu on August 29. The party leadership on Wednesday rejected the police theory that Congress-CPI(M) violence had resulted in the crime. The Thiruvananthapuram District Congress Committee has reportedly told the State leadership that the assailants were associated with the DYFI for years. They had parted ways with the organisation after a bitter feud with the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-seeks-cbi-inquiry-into-murders/article32509850.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Move upsets Opposition parties||The government’s decision to suspend Question Hour in the monsoon session of Parliament triggered widespread outrage among Opposition parties, which accused the government of using the pandemic as an excuse to do away with any form of accountability. Floor leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury urged the government to revisit its decision. Question Hour was an important instrument for both the Opposition and the treasury benches, he said. “Delayed monsoon session is one of special significance after the lockdown and phased unlocking. The proposal to exclude Question Hour is arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic. It is members’ privilege and the very life of a session,” tweeted Congress’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/move-upsets-opposition-parties/article32509510.ece
03 September 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal near 1.7 lakh||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 2,976 COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally to 1,68,697. The State also recorded 56 deaths, taking the total fatalities to 3,339. Seventeen fatalities were recorded in Kolkata, taking the city’s death toll to 1,318. With 11 deaths in Howrah, its toll touched 385. North 24 Parganas recorded six deaths, taking total mortalities to 757. The recovery rate in State increased raised to 83.53% with 24,445 active cases. Meanwhile, a meeting of senior officials of the State government and Metro Railway, Kolkata will be held at Nabanna, the State Secretariat, on September 3. As per the Unlock 4.0 guidelines of the Centre, Metro services can resume from September 8. Speaking to journalists at the State Secretariat Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that only 25% of the students who had enrolled for JEE (Joint Entrance Examination) examinations in the State had turned up. About 4,652 students were scheduled to appear for the exams, of which 1,167 turned up. Ms. Banerjee said the Centre could have rescheduled or postponed the JEE and NEET exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-near-17-lakh/article32509918.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Home care gains acceptance||Home care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients is becoming more acceptable in Kerala. As the State braces itself to get through the epidemic phase when hospitals could be overwhelmed, this may become a necessity. Kasaragod was the first district to implement the advisory on home care.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-care-gains-acceptance/article32509851.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Police conduct surprise drug check at bus stands||Police teams accompanied by the dog squad on Wednesday conducted surprise checks at bus stands and other transit points in and around the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-conduct-surprise-drug-check-at-bus-stands/article32509557.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees over 9,000 cases for third time||Karnataka on Wednesday reported the highest single-day increase of 9,860 new COVID-19 cases, taking its overall tally to 3,61,341. The death toll is 5,950 now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-over-9000-cases-for-third-time/article32509558.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||IPS officer in ICU after gun misfires||Senior police officer R.P. Sharma sustained bullet injuries at his home in Kothanur on Wednesday, when his service weapon misfired while he was cleaning it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ips-officer-in-icu-after-gun-misfires/article32509560.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||New COVID cases touch 2-month high in Delhi||The national capital on Wednesday recorded the highest number of daily new COVID-19 cases in over two months with 2,509 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi govern-ment. The total number of cases stood at 1,79,569.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-covid-cases-touch-2-month-high-in-delhi/article32509698.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC refuses to stay streaming of Netflix film||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined a petition by the Centre and the IAF to stay the streaming of Netflix film Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl. It said it would hear directly from former Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena on the allegations against the movie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-refuses-to-stay-streaming-of-netflix-film/article32509699.ece
03 September 2020||Patna,||Manjhi’s HAM(S) joins hands with NDA||In a sudden move, president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) Jitan Ram Manjhi on Wednesday announced that his party has become a part of the BJP-led NDA. He, however, made it clear that his party would not “merge” with the JD(U).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manjhis-hams-joins-hands-with-nda/article32509697.ece
03 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad district reports 10 COVID-19 deaths||Belagavi district recorded the highest single day spike of 470 COVID-19 positive cases and one death on Wednesday, while Dharwad recorded 327 new cases and 10 deaths. In Belagavi, 132 patients were discharged from hospital, while in Dharwad, 119 patients were discharged. Meanwhile, Davangere district recorded 321 new cases and one death and 119 discharged patients, Gadag reported 195 new cases, three deaths and 192 discharged patients, Bagalkot 166 new cases and 87 discharged patients, Haveri 149 new cases, two deaths and 67 discharged patients, Uttara Kannada 126 new cases and 130 discharged patients and Vijayapura reported 122 new cases, three deaths and 79 patients were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharwad-district-reports-10-covid-19-deaths/article32509753.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||Tower of Silence open for Parsis today||The Bombay High Court on Monday allowed Parsis to offer prayers for their departed ones at Doongerwadi, Tower of Silence on September 3 from 7 a.m. to 4.30 p.m., after being assured that all protocols related to COVID-19 will be followed. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar was hearing petition filed by Viraf Mehta, a Trustee of Bombay Parsi Panchayat, seeking direction from court to permit opening of Fire Temple, Doongerwadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tower-of-silence-open-for-parsis-today/article32509975.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||600 acres of Aarey to be declared reserve forest||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday announced the reservation of 600 acres of Aarey land near Sanjay Gandhi National Park as forest, stressing it as the first instance of an extensive forest blossoming within the limits of a metropolis in the world. “This implies that it will be declared a reserve forest after a hearing for suggestion and objections,” Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/600-acres-of-aarey-to-be-declared-reserve-forest/article32509977.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||‘Govt. ambulances handled 2 lakh patients’||The 108 ambulance network has handled 2,15,948 COVID-19 patients so far. More than five lakh persons have utilised the service, including for cardiac arrest, maternal care and accidents, during the pandemic, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-ambulances-handled-2-lakh-patients/article32509608.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||5,990 persons test positive for infection||Another 5,990 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally to 4,39,959. Chennai accounted for 1,025 of the fresh cases, while Coimbatore’s count stood at 579. Another 98 persons died of the nfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5990-persons-test-positive-for-infection/article32509610.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||Women show higher seroprevalence||Seroprevalence of the COVID-19 infection has been higher among women in Chennai, with 23.7% of the 6,493 women exposed to the infection, as per a serosurvey conducted in July. According to the survey, 19.3% of men have been exposed to the infection in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/antibodies-found-in-23-of-women-in-chennai/article32509611.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Karnataka records 9,860 new cases, 113 deaths||Andhra Pradesh’s 10,392 new infections on Wednesday showed a steady high-case trend in the State. There were also 72 deaths. With 1,03,076 active cases, the State was in second position after Maharashtra; infections reported in the past eight days stood at 83,892. The overall test positivity rate increased to 11.85%. In the past day, 60,804 samples were tested. Nellore and Chittoor saw a large number of deaths. In the past day, Nellore reported 11 deaths, Chittoor 10, West Godavari nine, Prakasam eight, Visakhapatnam and Krishna six each, East Godavari, Guntur, Anantapur and Srikakulam four each, Vizianagaram three, Kadapa two and Kurnool one death. Cases in Telangana crossed 1.3 lakh as 2,892 samples tested positive on Tuesday, as per data released on Wednesday. While 59,421 samples were tested on September 1, results of 2,255 samples were awaited. There were 477 new cases from Greater Hyderabad, 234 from Rangareddy, 192 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 174 from Nalgonda, 152 from Karimnagar, 128 from Khammam, 116 from Warangal Urban, 110 from Nizamabad, 108 each from Siddipet and Suryapet, and 102 from Jagtial. Kerala reported 1,547 new cases on Wednesday. The official death toll touched 305, with the Health department adding seven more deaths to its provisional list of COVID-19 deaths. Three deaths each at Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam and one at Kasaragod were reported. The final official COVID-19 toll would be revealed after the State death audit committee scrutinised the cause. The dip in the daily case burden for the third consecutive day, by over a thousand cases, was attributed to the lesser number of samples tested than normally done: In the last 24 hours it was 23,850, much less than the 40,000 normal target of the State. Community transmission was linked to 94% of new cases – 1,461 of 1,547 – and 36 more healthcare workers got infected. Thiruvananthapuram reported 228 cases, 217 as a result of local transmission, Kozhikode 204, Alapuzha 159, Malappuram 146, Kottayam 145, Kannur 142, Ernakulam 136, Thrissur 121, Kasaragod 88, Kollam 81, Wayanad 38, Palakkad 30, Pathanamthitta 17 and Idukki 12. Another 5,990 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s overall count to 4,39,959. Chennai accounted for 1,025 of the fresh cases, while Coimbatore’s daily count stood at 579 and Cuddalore and Salem had 400-plus cases each. While 5,891 persons were discharged following treatment, another 98 persons succumbed to the infection.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-cases-in-karnataka-no-respite-in-ap/article32509456.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||India is entirely responsible for tensions: China||China on Wednesday said “the responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side” for the continuing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and a new stand-off in the Chushul sector. Beijing also said it had “kept maximum restraint to prevent potential escalation” and called on India “to immediately withdraw all personnel who illegally trespassed across the LAC, and stop taking any actions that may escalate tensions or complicate matters”. India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Tuesday the Chinese troops had engaged in “provocative action” on August 31, while discussions between ground commanders were on-going. This followed earlier moves on the night of August 29 which, the Army said, were “provocative” military movements to change the status quo. To pre-empt these moves, the Army said, India undertook measures “to strengthen our positions” near the south bank of Pangong Lake in Ladakh. On Wednesday, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said, “The Indian side claims it ‘pre-empted’ some activities. Like the Chinese saying ‘There are no 300 taels of silver buried here’, which means one accidentally gives away the hidden truth in an explanation, India’s statements reveal the fact that the Indian troops were the first to have illegally crossed the LAC, made provocations, changed the status quo in the border areas and violated bilateral agreements and important consensus.” ‘Discipline troops’ Ms. Hua said, “Since the beginning of year, India has breached bilateral agreements and important consensus many times in the western sector of the China-India boundary, attempted to unilaterally change the status quo by force, undermined peace and stability in the border region and caused tensions. The responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side. China has kept maximum restraint to prevent potential escalation.” “We urge India to strictly discipline its border troops, stop all provocations at once, immediately withdraw all personnel who illegally trespassed across the LAC, and stop taking any actions that may escalate tensions or complicate matters. We hope India will work with China to implement bilateral agreements and important consensus reached by leaders of the two sides, and make concrete efforts to uphold peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” India has said the latest tensions on the south bank of the Pangong Lake followed China’s similar moves along the the border since early May, where it has sought to redraw the LAC in the Galwan Valley, Depsang Plains, north bank of Pangong Lake and in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, in addition to mobilising large number of troops. A clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 killed 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers. Asked on Wednesday by Reuters to comment about reports that a Tibetan officer part of India’s Special Frontier Force had died in a landmine blast near the site of recent border tensions and on the presence of Tibetan officers in India’s Special Frontier Force, and the role of the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in setting up the force going back to the 1960s, Ms. Hua said: “I’m not aware of what you said about these ‘Tibetans in exile’ in the Indian armed forces. You may ask the Indian side for this. But I noted some words you mentioned, including ‘the 1960s’, ‘CIA’, and ‘Tibetans in exile’. These words prompt us to ponder over the ins and outs of the Tibet-related issues and the role the U.S. has played in this process. China’s position is very clear. We firmly oppose any country providing convenience in any form for the ‘Tibet independence’ forces’ separatist activities. I am also wondering what is the connection between so-called ‘Tibetans in exile’ and the Indian border troops. I hope you can do some in-depth investigation...” On Wednesday, the Communist Party-run Global Times , in an editorial published in its English and Chinese editions, said “the system that has managed the border situation for decades is now crumbling” and “regular border frictions will exhaust both countries.” ‘Damaging nationalism’ “India’s actions have seriously increased the strategic mistrust between China and India, and heightened the damage border frictions are creating on relations between the two countries. India has cancelled much cooperation with China since Galwan Valley clash. Its nationalism is inflicting damage to itself,” it said. “Neither China nor India is willing to keep their relations at the cost of losing territory. But the same disputes have been there for decades, and they shouldn’t have been allowed to resurface. Chinese public opinion hasn’t focused on the China-India border issues, but India has always been fanatical,” the editorial added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-entirely-responsible-for-tensions-china/article32509457.ece
03 September 2020||Patna,||Manjhi’s HAM(S) joins hands with NDA||In a sudden move, former Bihar Chief Minister and president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) (HAM-S) Jitan Ram Manjhi on Wednesday announced that his party has become a part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Mr. Manjhi was to make the announcement on Thursday. “From today, my party has become a part of the NDA in Bihar... Earlier, I was to announce it on Thursday but I thought there should not be any delay in good work,” he said in a press meet at his official residence in Patna. Mr. Manjhi made it clear that his party would not “merge” with the Janata Dal(U) (JD-U) as speculated, but would be a part of the NDA as an ally. “I’ve also not demanded any number of seats for the forthcoming Assembly election in the State... When a mutual understanding between us has reached then, I think, there should not be any talk of any demand... My party workers and I will put in all strength to make Nitish Kumar the Chief Minister again,” he said. Mr. Manjhi slammed the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) constituents, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, for not meeting his demand of forming a coordination committee for a long time. “They kept dilly-dallying on my demand and then we decided to sever our ties with the Mahagathbandhan ,” he said. The HAM(S) will be the fourth alliance partner of the NDA in Bihar. Sources in the party told The Hindu that Mr. Manjhi had to rush to Patna on Wednesday from his native Mahakar in Gaya district on some “express message” from the Chief Minister’s house. However, others said, “Since the inauspicious period of ‘pitripaksha’ begins tomorrow, Mr. Manjhi made this announcement today itself”. “Yes, we’ll be joining the NDA tomorrow [Thursday] in Patna and our party president Jitan Ram Manjhi ji would announce it formally,” HAM(S) leader and spokesperson Danish Rizwan had told The Hindu over the phone. On August 27, Mr. Manjhi met Mr. Kumar and since then the talk of his joining the ruling NDA had been doing the rounds in the State’s political circle. Mr. Manjhi is the lone member of his party in the State Assembly. He was made the Chief Minister in May 2014 after the JD(U) faced a crushing defeat in the Lok Sabha polls and Mr. Kumar had resigned on moral grounds. However, Mr. Manjhi had to step down from the post of Chief Minister in 2015 to make way for the return of Mr. Kumar. He later formed the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and contested the 2015 Bihar Assembly election as an NDA constituent, but with the return of Mr. Kumar to the NDA in July 2017, Mr. Manjhi parted ways to join hands with the Mahagathbandhan . Party sources told The Hindu that the HAM(S) may get seven to nine seats from the JD(U) quota in the poll that is due in October-November. The seats the party is likely to get are Barachatti, Imamganj, Kutumba, Makhdumpur, Rajauli, Atari, Tekari, Sursand and Purnea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manjhis-hams-joins-hands-with-nda/article32509468.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi/Ahmedabad,||Mundra terminal deal under scanner||A proposal to transfer partial ownership of a terminal at India’s busiest Mundra port in Gujarat to a Chinese company is now under the scanner of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), after an agreement between the Adani Group’s French joint venture partner CMA Terminals and the China Merchants Group (CMG), a Chinese state-owned enterprise. While the Adani Group has clarified that it has not filed the application itself, the proposal could see red flags from the government’s security agencies that have already put other Chinese acquisitions on hold for the past few months. 50% stake According to the application submitted by CMA Terminals of France on May 21 this year, the company that is a joint venture partner of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ), engaged in “developing, operating, maintaining terminal CT-4 at Mundra Port”, wants to turn over its 50% stake to the CMA-CGM group, under a joint venture between the French company and the China Merchants Group (CMG). Effectively, the transaction would result in a China Merchants Group subsidiary taking an indirect, minority stake of 24.9% in the Adani-CMA Mundra Terminal. Senior government officials who confirmed receiving the application told The Hindu that the deal has “not been cleared as of now”. The application has been forwarded to the MEA, MHA, Reserve Bank of India and the Ministry of Shipping by the Commerce Ministry’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). When contacted, the Adani Group said that it was not involved in the applications process filed by its French partner. “We are not the applicant. We partner with CMA-CGM for the terminal in Mundra Port. We are the operator of the terminal as well as the port at Mundra port,” a senior official of the Adani group told The Hindu . “CMA-CGM is the third largest shipping company in the world and they are our partner in Mundra,” he said, adding that the permissions would have been sought in accordance with the requirements of Indian law. APSEZ, which is India’s largest private port operator, entered into the Indo-French joint venture with CMA Terminals for the Mundra port in 2014, and the container terminal at Mundra was commissioned in 2017. Worldwide move On December 20, 2019 CMA-CGM announced it was going to sell stakes in 10 terminals worldwide to its venture with China Merchants Group for $968 million. The list included the Mundra port in India, and others in China, Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, Netherlands and other countries. Last week, the Nikkei Asian Review journal reported that two of the 10 terminals, including the ones in India and Vietnam, had held up the deal, quoting a CMG official who said that “because of the influence of the epidemic, as the examination and approval process of the local governments was delayed”. The MEA and the MHA declined to comment officially on the matter, and officials at the Shipping Ministry, which oversees ports, did not respond to calls. Despite the Adani Group’s considerable importance in the infrastructure business, it is unlikely the proposal for a Chinese stake in the Mundra port would be given swift clearance, said officials who did not wish to be named, citing the heightened tensions between Delhi and Beijing. About 200 investment proposals from China are awaiting security clearance from the MHA after new rules were notified in April. ( With inputs from      Vijaita Singh )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mundra-terminal-deal-under-scanner/article32509491.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Production disruption likely, says HAL||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Wednesday signalled a “short term” disruption in production at its factories/facilities as the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the entire supply chain ecosystem and logistics around the globe. Since the pandemic has caused worldwide lockdown, suppliers in general are financially stressed due to cash flow and liquidity problems, possible production hold up in suppliers’ facilities and restriction on movement of goods through international freights can lead to disruption of established supply chains. Hence, there could be likely disruption of production in the short term at HAL, said its Chairman and Managing Director R. Madhavan. Annual report In the company’s annual report, he said HAL was a highly technology-intensive company with product spectrum including both ToT (transfer of technology) as well as indigenous platforms that contained systems/ sub-systems/ raw materials etc., of foreign origin used on these platforms. While the pandemic had impacted all major industry sectors, in the aviation and defence sector, it had put severe supply and demand challenges for the commercial aviation business world over, he further said. HAL produced 31 new aircraft and helicopters, covering Su-30 MKI, LCA Tejas, Dornier Do228, ALH Dhruv, Cheetal helicopter and Chetak helicopter during the fiscal 2019-20. Additionally, the company produced 117 new engines and accessories, he said. On the future outlook, Mr. Madhavan said the past one decade had seen consistent growth of military and commercial sectors of the aerospace and defence industry, both in the international as well as the domestic market. During this period, HAL had reported an impressive growth with an increase in sales of the order of 62%. “Looking at the Indian scenario, demand on aerospace and defence manufacturing sector in the country is dominated by the demands from the defence sector. The company business is mainly concentrated on defence services and major negative impact on the demand side of the business due to the pandemic in the long term is not anticipated currently as the defence contracts reflect long term requirements of national interest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/production-disruption-likely-says-hal/article32509442.ece
03 September 2020||Srinagar,||JCO killed in Pak. firing in Rajouri||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was killed in “an unprovoked ceasefire violation” by the Pakistani Army in Rajouri district of Pir Panjal on Wednesday. The Pakistani side also opened a new front by shelling in north Kashmir’s Gurez sector, close to the Drass sector of Ladakh. Drass is the only road link connecting the Kashmir Valley with Ladakh and it was very volatile during the 1999 Kargil war. An official said the officer of the rank of Naib Subedar, a resident of Punjab, was hit by sniper fire from across the Line of Control (LoC) in Keri Sector of Rajouri during the intervening night of September 1-2. “The Indian Army gave a befitting response,” an official said. Second casualty This is the second such casualty in the past four days in Rajouri. Pakistan’s sniper fire from across the LoC killed a JCO in the Nowshera Sector on August 30. In cross-LoC shelling and small arms firing, the Pakistani Army opened a new front in the Gurez sector, first time since February 3 this year. An official said it started shelling Bagtore and Tarabal areas around 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday and continued shelling till 10:30 p.m. “A total of seven structures, which included five houses and a building of a government school, were partially damaged. A shell damaged the ceiling of the school too”, a senior official said. Deputy Commissioner of Bandipora, Owais Ahmad, told The Hindu, “The local officers have been directed to keep concrete bunkers ready for any evacuation in case of further shelling. Blankets have also been stocked up. Relief is being provided to the damaged private house through the Red Cross. ”. An Army spokesman said the Pakistan also violated the ceasefire agreement along the LoC in Poonch’s Kirni and Qasba Sectors around 6:45 p.m and fired from small arms and mortars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jco-killed-in-pak-firing-in-rajouri/article32509460.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues SOP for holding exams||Only asymptomatic staff and students shall be allowed inside the examination hall and only those examination centres which are outside the containment zone shall be allowed to function, noted the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday while issuing SOP (standard operating procedure) on preventive measures to be followed while conducting examinations to contain the spread of COVID- 19. The Ministry said that these centres are frequented by a large number of students and staff for the entire duration of the exam and it is therefore vital to plan and conduct these examinations while following specific preventive measures. Universities, educational institutions, examination conducting authorities and examination centres have been advised to plan out the examination schedule in a staggered manner. “Examinees from containment zones, who were unable to take the scheduled exams, shall be given an opportunity to undertake the examination through other means or the Universities/Educational Institution shall arrange for taking the exam at a later date for such students,” the Ministry added. It further elaborated that if a student is found to be symptomatic and insists on giving the examination, he may be allowed to take examination by shifting the candidate to a separate isolation room. The permission in such cases shall be granted as per the policy already enunciated on the issue by the Examination Conducting Authorities. The Ministry said that all staff that are at high-risk (older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions) shall not be deployed for invigilation/conduct of examination. The Ministry added that in case of PwD (Persons with Disabilities) candidates availing a scribe, both the candidate and scribe must wear masks and be made to sit with adequate physical distance. “Adequate arrangements for safe drinking water (preferably with disposable cups/glasses) should be made in the examination hall and seating arrangement in the examination hall to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. For pen and paper based tests, the invigilator will sanitise his hands prior to distribution of question papers/answer sheets. The examinees will also sanitise their hands before receiving such papers and handing them back to invigilators... The answer sheets will preferably be opened up after 72 hours have elapsed post collection of papers,” states the SOP. ‘Death rate is lowest’ Data released by the Health Ministry on Wednesday said 54% of COVID-19 cases in India are in the 18-44 age group but 51% deaths are reported in the 60 and above age group, said. It added that currently India has 1,578 dedicated COVID hospitals. “The deaths per million population in India is one of the lowest in the world. While the global average is 110 deaths per million population, India is reporting 48 deaths per million population,” said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-issues-sop-for-holding-exams/article32509470.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Banks must not profit from the pandemic’||Circulars issued by the RBI on August 6 and hailed by the government in the Supreme Court came under intense criticism from individual borrowers and commercial sectors across the spectrum who called it “old wine in a new bottle”. The circulars allow individual banks discretion to resolve COVID19-related stress and customise relief to individual borrowers facing the reality of payment of accrued loan interest post the moratorium period. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan on Wednesday, senior advocate Rajiv Dutta said asking borrowers to pay interest on interest accrued during the moratorium period which expired on August 31 is “worse than taking a pound of flesh”. “I [borrowers] did not default on the loans. Moratorium on EMI was meant as a respite when cash flow is strapped. How can the banks say it is a loss for them? When the country is down under, the banks want to make a profit? This is worse than taking a pound of flesh. Profit of COVID? Give me time to restore my finances, stand up on my legs,” Mr. Dutta appearing for the borrowers community contended. Mr. Dutta said the RBI is “not an agent of the banks, only a regulator”. Senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan, for the power and real estate sectors, said the government and the RBI were going in circles without addressing proportionality and waiver of interests required in an “extraordinary force majeure situation” like the pandemic. Nerve centre He said the sectors he represents form the nerve centre of the economy. The moratorium has only postponed the burden. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, for the Shopping Centres Association of India, asked whether the computer-managed banking system has already rendered the loan accounts NPAs with the moratorium having expired on August 31. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for the construction sector, sought a complete waiver of interest for the moratorium period. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for both the Centre and the RBI, said a variety of banks are dealing with a variety of loans and borrowers. The thrust is to revive the economy and sectors. He said the majority of the economy runs on small businesses. The court will continue the hearing on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/banks-must-not-profit-from-the-pandemic/article32509484.ece
03 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Follow letter and spirit of GST Act: CM tells Centre||Kerala has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and advise the Finance Ministry not to go ahead with the ‘plans of transferring the burden’ of the Good and Service Tax (GST) compensation on the States and instead follow the ‘letter and spirit’ of the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017. Transferring the obligation of GST compensation to the States by way of borrowing is not in accordance with the ‘spirit of understanding’ reached between the Centre and the States during the discussions preceding the constitutional amendment for bringing in GST, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a letter to the Prime Minister on Wednesday. “The two borrowing options sent by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, to the States on August 30, 2021 go against this and need to be withdrawn,” the Chief Minister said. Conveying the concerns of Kerala with regard to the payment of the GST compensation to the States, Mr. Vijayan pointed out that the States were assured of an annual compound growth of 14% in the GST revenue with 2015-16 as the base year during the initial five years of implementation when GST was implemented from July 1, 2017. This was incorporated in the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act. Moreover, Section 7 of the Act said that the compensation shall be payable to the States at the end of every two-month period. Unfortunately, Mr. Vijayan said, since 2019-20, the provision has not been adhered to. From April 1, 2020, no compensation has been released to the States. The Chief Minister pointed out to Mr. Modi that the amount to Kerala during April to August financial year 2020-2021 is Rs. 7,000 crore. Criticising the argument that the part of the loss is unprecedented as a result of COVID-19, Mr. Vijayan said the revenue loss and the expenditure pressures have been much greater for the States and this ‘artificial distinction’ that is being sought to be drawn would exacerbate the severe fiscal stress of the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/follow-letter-and-spirit-of-gst-act-cm-tells-centre/article32509853.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||A divide within the Congress G23?||A section of the Congress ‘G23’, or the group of 23 dissenting leaders, who had questioned the party’s functioning in a letter to interim president Sonia Gandhi, may meet over the weekend to plan their future strategy, a senior leader from the group said on Wednesday. There seems to be a divide within the group, with one section keen on ending the public debate, while the other determined to “take the issues raised in the letter to their logical end”. Fresh push This could mean giving a fresh push to have elections to the top party post and the Congress Working Committee (CWC). “There is no divide among the 23 of us and we have been speaking among ourselves. In fact, we hope to meet over the weekend as more people have called us and extended support. The letter was never about any person but about an issue,” said the leader from the G23. After an explosive meeting of the CWC on August 24, the Congress had called upon everyone to treat it as a “closed chapter”. Some of the signatories, including Shashi Tharoor, Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Jitin Prasada, endorsed the stand, asking everyone to put the controversy behind them. Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda even got a resolution passed among the State MLAs endorsing Ms. Gandhi’s leadership. However, another section is not happy that the party doesn’t seem interested in dealing with the issues raised in the letter. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, reiterated in an interview his views of having elected members to the CWC. Senior leader Kapil Sibal also expressed disappointment over the party’s response. Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari, without mentioning the Congress, wrote an opinion piece in which he underlined the importance of dissent in ancient Indian philosophy and how even the ‘tallest King’ had to face questioning. “These divergent views and calls for reforms are coming up as we are not in power. Had we been in power, you wouldn’t have found any dissenting voices,” said Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. “Some of the signatories are beneficiaries of ‘the system’ they now want to change,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-divide-within-the-congress-g23/article32509462.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan penalty will remain a matter of debate, says A-G||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal called Justice Arun Mishra an “iron judge”, but referred to the punishment of civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt, saying it would be a point of discussion for long. “Personally, I would have been happy if no punishment had been levied, but the judgment laid down the law on the principle of contempt elaborately. It will be a matter of debate. It will be discussed for a long time,” Mr. Venugopal addressed Justice Mishra, who retired on Wednesday. A Bench led by Justice Mishra had punished Mr. Bhushan with a Rs. 1 fine for his tweets “scandalising the court”. Mr. Venugopal, the top law officer, was speaking at a short farewell session held as soon as the virtual hearing in the Chief Justice of India’s court was over. Justice Mishra was sitting along with Chief Justice S.A. Bobde. It is convention that a retiring judge sits with the Chief Justice on his last working day. ‘Firm and unshakeable’ Mr. Venugopal, in his short address, said he enjoyed an “excellent relationship” with Justice Mishra. Their acquaintance goes back to 30 years. He described Justice Mishra as “firm and unshakeable”, whose resolve shone through his judgments. Justice Mishra replied to Mr. Venugopal that what the latter said about punishment was something “we discussed till the last moment.” “System has been upright,” he said. He had been faithful to his convictions and conscience. His efforts on the Bench had always been to “unearth the truth”, he observed. He thanked the Bar for being the power behind him. “I have been harsh... I have used harsh words... Nobody should feel hurt,” Justice Mishra said. Chief Justice Bobde described Justice Mishra as a “beacon of courage”. “You have been a beacon of light, a beacon of courage, beacon of fortitude in the face of all adversity, which you faced bravely in the discharge of duty”, he said. Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave, who was seen on the screen, could not speak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhushan-penalty-will-remain-a-matter-of-debate-says-a-g/article32509488.ece
03 September 2020||Kozhikode,||‘Bineesh has links with drug racket accused’||Muslim Youth League (MYL) State general secretary P.K. Firoz has alleged that Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, has close ties with Anoop Mohammed of Kochi, one of the gang members taken into custody in connection with a Bengaluru-based celebrity drug racket. At a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Firoz alleged that Anoop had started two restaurants in Bengaluru with financial assistance from Mr. Bineesh Kodiyeri in 2013. Both had taken part in night parties during the COVID-19-induced lockdown period, he alleged. ‘Examine call details’ Mr. Firoz said a comprehensive inquiry should be launched into the alleged links of Mr. Bineesh Kodiyeri with the Bengaluru drug racket and his call list details, especially on July 10, should be examined to ascertain the facts. It was on this day that Swapna Suresh, accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Bengaluru, he said. Last week, officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau had busted the racket that had been catering to many in the Kannada film industry. Ecstasy pills such as 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine, nicknamed Molly, and LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide, a hallucinogenic drug), were seized from a woman, Anikha, who was allegedly heading the racket from her flat at Doddagubbi.  Drugs seizure Anoop was apprehended from a service apartment at Kalyan Nagar, east of Bengaluru. About 145 Ecstasy tablets and Rs. 2.25 lakh were recovered from his flat. He also had connections with K.T. Rameez, a Malappuram-based businessman who was arrested in connection with the gold smuggling case, Mr. Firoz alleged. ‘Lent Rs. 6 lakh’ Responding to the allegations, Mr. Bineesh Kodiyeri told TV channels that he had maintained a good relationship with Anoop since 2013. He had lent around Rs. 6 lakh for starting his hotel business. He said he did not know that Anoop had links with the drug racket. He also denied attending parties hosted by Anoop during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bineesh-has-links-with-drug-racket-accused/article32509438.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. to protest today against CPI(M) attacks on its offices||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran has called for a Statewide protest on September 3 to condemn the widespread attacks on Congress offices by Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers in the wake of the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists at Venjaramoodu here late Saturday. The KPCC has positioned the sit-in agitation planned for Thursday as a propaganda counter to the ‘black day’ observed by the CPI(M) on Wednesday to protest against the murder of its party activists allegedly by Congress workers. Houses attacked Mr. Ramachandran said workers of the CPI(M) and the DYFI targeted the houses of Congress workers. They attacked offices and destroyed party symbols and flags. The police remained a mute witness to the organised violence, which resulted in damage to 142 premises, he said. In Thiruvananthapuram, unknown persons vandalised the house of G. Leena, former State secretary of the Youth Congress. Mr. Ramachandran and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala visited the house. Mr Chennithala said the Congress did not believe in tit-for-tat violence. It would fight the CPI(M) electorally. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy condemned the attacks. In Kannur, G. Sudhakaran, MP, said the CPI(M) should not take the non-violence of the Congress as a sign of weakness. The spree of attacks commenced with the firebombing of a Congress office at Nadapuram in Kozhikode on Tuesday. The police said unknown persons destroyed Congress symbols, cut-outs and flags placed on the roadside in Kannur and Kozhikode. The miscreants appeared to have chosen party offices on busy thoroughfares for the attack to make a leisurely getaway. Most of the attacks occurred at night and during the early hours. No major injuries or causalities were reported. War of words The political temperature in the State shot up on Wednesday with the CPI(M) squarely blaming the Congress leadership for the double murder. The Congress hit back, stating that internecine feuding in the DYFI had ended in the street killings. The issue had also caused a heated war of words between Congress and CPI(M) leaders. The police said they continued to remain vigilant in localities that had witnessed political violence in the past given the impending Congress protests on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-protest-today-against-cpim-attacks-on-its-offices/article32509444.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||NIA chargesheets 5 for links to IS group||The National investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against five accused who owed allegiance to the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) for allegedly “conspiring to utilise the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian Government”. The NIA said the accused, including two women, instigated Muslims by “coining seditious slogans and making graffiti at public places and highlighting the same on social and international media”. ‘Plan for arson’ “They were also provoking some gullible youth to participate in anti-CAA protests actively. In case these protests failed to provoke the Muslims, they were planning for arson of Government buildings and public property so that riots could happen and they could exploit the sentiments of Muslims,” the agency said in a chargesheet filed in a Delhi court on Wednesday. The five accused have been identified as Jahanzaib Sami, 36, Hina Bashir Beigh, 39, Abdullah Basith, 26, Sadiya Anwar Shaikh, 20, and Nabeel Siddick Khatri, 27. Sami and Beigh are from Srinagar and were arrested by the Delhi police from Jamia Nagar in southeast Delhi in March for allegedly running social media handles active during the anti-CAA protests. The case was transferred to the NIA. The NIA claimed that Beigh studied in Pune and got radicalised in 2014-15 by reading ISIS-related content on social media. It said that Sami and Beigh married in 2017 as both supported the ideology of ISIS. The other suspect, Basith, is from Hyderabad; Shaikh and Khatri belong to Pune. In 2015, when Shaikh was a student at a convent in Pune, she was detained and counselled by the Maharashtra police as she planned to exit the country to join the Islamic State (IS) in Syria. She was allegedly radicalised on the Internet by a Sri Lankan handler who promised her medical education in Syria. The NIA said that Sami, who pursued B.Tech. from Ferozpur in Punjab, “got radicalised and inclined towards ISIS/ISKP by reading about it on the Internet”. “He established contact with ISIS handler Huzaifa-al-Bakistani and latter’s father-in-law viz. Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri (Head of Indian affairs of ISKP) in 2017 on a secure messaging platform. Huzaifa-al-Bakistani further introduced him to Abdullah Basith, another ISIS operative, who is already in judicial custody at Tihar jail in connection with another NIA case,” the agency said. The NIA said that Sami, Beigh, Basith and Shaikh “were continuously in contact with ISIS operatives based in Khorasan (Afghanistan) and Syria”. “On receiving instructions from ISKP head Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri, accused Sami and Basith prepared a magazine titled ‘Voice of Hind’, inciting Muslims against non-Muslims ... The magazine eulogises ISIS/ISKP terrorists, including Huzaifa-al- Bakistani, who was killed in July 2019 in a drone strike in Afghanistan...” NIA said. Investigation also revealed that Sami, Beigh, Basith and Khatri tried to make an improvised explosive device and were planning to carry out mass killings in crowded places to further the activities of ISIS/ISKP in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-chargesheets-5-for-links-to-is-group/article32509466.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Extraordinary measures for extraordinary times, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday termed the Opposition’s uproar over the suspension of Question Hour in the upcoming Lok Sabha session “masterclass in hypocrisy”. “It is amusing to see Opposition MPs who don’t have the power to question even their party president create a fake narrative on this issue,” said BJP Rajya Sabha MP and party media cell head Anil Baluni. He added that Parliament would be convening only for four hours daily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, leading to the cancelling of Question Hour, but unstarred questions would be allowed. “It is far-fetched and too dramatic to say that this is being done by the government to evade questions. This is simply a case of extraordinary measures for extraordinary times. The government has always answered each question with sincerity,” he said. “State Assemblies have functioned in various States after March 2020 and there has been no Question Hour in the Assemblies of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. BJP is in Opposition in most of these States and it did not raise a hue and cry there,” he said. “Parliamentary Affairs Minister and Defence Minister spoke to parties where they all supported this move. But now suddenly they have changed their stand,” he said. Even in normal times, he said, it was important to note that Question Hour was routinely disrupted by the Opposition. “The extent of disturbance is visible from the fact that in the last eight sessions, out of the 162 hours allotted for Question Hour, only 59 hours were used and more than 102 hours were lost due to disruptions and adjournment,” he said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had earlier said that an abbreviated Zero Hour of 30 minutes would be allowed for members to take up particular issues of interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extraordinary-measures-for-extraordinary-times-says-bjp/article32509473.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Facebook caught in BJP-Opposition war||At a more than three-hour meeting of the Standing Committee on Information and Technology on Wednesday, Facebook India officials were caught in the middle of a shouting match between the Opposition and BJP members as each side blamed the social media giant for showing bias towards the other. The Facebook team was summoned by the panel on the subject, “Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space.” Over 100 questions were raised by 17 members (11 BJP and 6 Opposition) who attended the meeting, for which Facebook has assured written replies later on. According to sources, the meeting began with the BJP members raking up the political affiliation of Facebook India’s Managing Director Ajit Mohan. They accused him of having worked in the past with the Congress government both at the Centre and in Kerala. The Opposition members, meanwhile, pointed out that Ankhi Das, head of Facebook’s public policy in India, was an ABVP member. They also raised the recent articles published in The Wall Street Journal and the Time magazine. Company’s record Facebook officials defended the company’s record, claiming that globally it had taken down 22.5 million pages in just the second quarter of this year alone. The firm also told the panel that it had instituted an oversight board to do a second round of checks. The Facebook officials said this board followed the global community standards. “We asked Facebook to clarify on how global community standards are applicable to India considering the wide range of religions and castes here,” another member said. Chairman of the committee Shashi Tharoor suggested that the Facebook officials should be called for a second round on September 10, a day before the current standing committee’s tenure ends. However, the sources said the BJP members did not relent and said the new committee, whenever it was reconstituted, could take the issue forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facebook-caught-in-bjp-opposition-war/article32509489.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mission Karmayogi to train govt. officials||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval for Mission Karmayogi, a new national capacity-building and performance evaluation programme for civil servants. The scheme will cover 46 lakh Central government employees at all levels, and involves an outlay of Rs. 510 crore over a five-year period, according to an official statement. An annual subscription of Rs. 431 will be charged per civil servant. Announcing the Cabinet decision, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the scheme was meant to be a comprehensive post-recruitment reform of the Centre’s human resource (HR) development, in much the same way as the National Recruitment Agency approved last week is pre-recruitment reform. ‘Roles-based’ The programme will support a transition from “rules-based to roles-based” HR management, so that work allocations can be done by matching an official’s competencies to the requirements of the post, Department of Personnel and Training Secretary C. Chandramouli told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting. Apart from domain knowledge training, the scheme will focus on “functional and behavioural competencies” as well, and also includes a monitoring framework for performance evaluations. Eventually, service matters such as confirmation after probation period, deployment, work assignments and notification of vacancies will all be integrated into the proposed framework. The capacity-building programme will be delivered through an Integrated Government Online Training or iGOTKarmayogi digital platform, with content drawn from global best practices rooted in Indian national ethos. Mission Karmayogi is aimed at “building a future-ready civil service with the right attitude, skills and knowledge, aligned to the vision of New India,” said Dr. Chandramouli. The Prime Minister’s Public Human Resource Council will be set up as the apex body to direct the reforms, with an autonomous Capacity Building Commission to be established to manage the reformed system and harmonise training standards across the country, said the Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mission-karmayogi-to-train-govt-officials/article32509476.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug smuggling: police conduct checks||Police teams accompanied by the dog squad on Wednesday conducted surprise checks at bus stands and other transit points in and around the city after they received Intelligence reports of peddlers bringing drugs into the city via buses. Search operations were carried out at Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and private bus stands, while several teams also conducted searches at checkpoints across the city. Last week, the CCB arrested three people who were caught red-handed smuggling 204 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 1 crore into Bengaluru from Andhra Pradesh in a truck. According to the police, the accused provided details about their clients and local peddlers in their confession. “Soon after this, the peddlers changed their plans and started using public transport to send drugs into the city,” a senior police officer said. Earlier in the day, Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, tweeted about the city police’s crackdown. “Since we have information on drugs being supplied into the city via buses, extensive checks have been conducted,” he said. Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood had said that the investigations into the drug menace have so far revealed that the contraband was coming into the city from Andhra Pradesh and Goa. The CCB is also in touch with the Narcotics Control Bureau, which had cracked a major drug racket with alleged links to actors and others in the Kannada film industry. The NCB also busted another international racket where smugglers were allegedly sending consignments of illegal drugs from Delhi and Mumbai by air to their clients in the U.S. and Canada. The NCB is following the trail to Goa where a cab driver had ordered marijuana online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-smuggling-police-conduct-checks/article32509439.ece
03 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha seeks time to conduct univ. exams||The Odisha government on Wednesday requested the University Grants Commission to extend the deadline of the final year university exams for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses from September 30 to October 10. On behalf of the Chief Minister and Chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority Naveen Patnaik, Higher Education Department secretary Saswat Mishra wrote a letter to the UGC mentioning that the extension will ensure scheduling of the exams with at least one day gap so that the test centres can be sanitised properly. “Preparedness to conduct the examinations was discussed with the Vice-Chancellors and principals of autonomous colleges. All of them are of the view that since they had earlier not planned to conduct final semester/year UG and PG examinations, about 25 days’ time would be required,” the letter to the UGC secretary mentioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-seeks-time-to-conduct-univ-exams/article32509701.ece
03 September 2020||Lucknow,||SP shuts Lucknow office due to COVID-19 cases||The Samajwadi Party on Wednesday said it has shut its State unit office here for six days after “some people” working there tested positive for COVID-19. In a tweet in Hindi, the party said the office will remain shut till Monday as a precautionary measure. “Some people working at the Samajwadi Party office were tested for coronavirus after they showed initial symptoms. Their test reports returned positive. As a precautionary measure, the party office in Lucknow will remain closed till Monday. May all recover at the earliest,” the party said. Sources in the party said some senior office-bearers are among those who tested positive for the virus, but the party officially did not give details such as the number of people infected or their position in the SP. Lucknow reported 720 infections on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-shuts-lucknow-office-due-to-covid-19-cases/article32509702.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Three arrested for swindling KSAMB funds||The Central Crime Branch police on Wednesday arrested three people, one of whom is the prime accused, for allegedly misappropriating around Rs. 50 crore of Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board (KSAMB) funds. The money was part of the Rs. 100 crore that the board had deposited at SyndicateBank. The arrested — Vijay Akash, 57, who is the prime accused, Dorai Raj, 32, and Dinesh Babuji, 30, — have been on the run since the scam was discovered in January this year. According to the police, Vijay colluded with the branch manager and assistant manager of SyndicateBank, Uttarahalli branch, to transfer the money into different accounts in Chennai. The board had placed Rs. 100 crore in two fixed deposits of Rs. 50 crore each in Uttarahalli branch in November 2019. In January this year, however, the board realised that the money in one of the FDs had been transferred to various current accounts without their knowledge. The CCB has so far arrested 15 people. “Vijay is a habitual offender with criminal cases pending in Tirupati, Hyderabad, and Coimbatore,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-arrested-for-swindling-ksamb-funds/article32509562.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS , AP record high on drunk driving deaths||After Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh, Telangana has achieved the dubious distinction of witnessing maximum road accident deaths due to driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs in year 2019. With 177 persons getting killed because of driving under influence of alcohol/drugs, Telangana stood at fourth position vis-a-vis other States. Figures for UP, Jharkhand and MP were 849, 413 and 199 respectively. In fact, the two Telugu States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh put together witnessed 218 such deaths. This figure is more than that of Madhya Pradesh. Within the two Telugu States, AP has far lesser such deaths when compared to Telangana. Forty-one persons died in road accidents in AP due to driving after consuming liquor or drugs. Data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) said Hyderabad recorded five such fatalities while Vijayawada witnessed two. Visakhapatnam, another big city of AP, has no such deaths. The two Telugu States put together recorded highest number of road accident fatalities next to UP. While 14,948 lives got snuffed out in AP and Telangana, the figure stood at a staggering 23,285 deaths for UP. Maharashtra lost 14,608 lives in such accidents. Compared to 2018, lesser number of road accidents were reported in both Telugu States in 2019. The percentage of variation was 1.6 for AP and 3 for Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-ap-record-high-on-drunk-driving-deaths/article32509831.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Staggered start to Metro from September 7||Mr. Puri said the Maharashtra government had decided not to start operations of the Mumbai Line-1, the Maha Metro in Nagpur and the monorail in September, instead planning to open from October or as it may decide further. Stating that “resumption of economic activity is an imperative” behind the decision, Mr. Puri said the Metro corporations would ensure all precautions, including sanitising trains. According to the guidelines, Metros with more than one line should re-start operations of different lines from September 7 in a staggered manner so all corridors become operational by September 12. The hours of operations may be staggered to start with, but will be increased gradually till “resumption of full revenue service by September 12”. The stations in containment zones would remain closed. The Ministry’s SOP said hand sanitisers should be available at the entry and Smart Card use should be encouraged over tokens and paper tickets. Mr. Puri said Metro corporations would be able to skip stations if they find social distancing is being violated on the station. Those found not wearing masks or violating social distancing norms could be named and shamed, he added. Mr. Puri said the Metro corporations in Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bengaluru, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur), Kolkata, Gujarat and U.P. Metro (Lucknow) had prepared their own SOPs based on the Ministry’s SOP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/staggered-start-to-metro-from-september-7/article32509449.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||PUBG, WeChat Work and other mobile apps banned||“There has been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against apps that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens,” the Ministry said. “In the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India and security of the State. And using the sovereign powers, the Government of India has decided to block the usage of certain Apps, used in both mobile and non-mobile Internet enabled devices,” it added. Some of the applications banned are APUS Security, Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, FaceU - Inspire your Beauty, ShareSave by Xiaomi, CamCard, InNote, Super Clean, WeChat Work, Tencent Weiyun, Cyber Hunter, Knives Out-No rules, just fight!, Dawn of Isles, Ludo World-Ludo Superstar, Chess Rush, PUBG MOBILE, Rise of Kingdoms: Lost Crusade, Art of Conquest: Dark Horizon, AppLock, Road of Kings- Endless, VPN for TikTok and Legend: Rising Empire NetEase Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pubg-wechat-work-and-other-mobile-apps-banned/article32509453.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Not allowed to speak at Mishra send-off, says Dave||He had defended advocate Prashant Bhushan in a suo motu contempt action recently. “I must confess, the Supreme Court has come to such levels where the judges are afraid of the Bar. Please do remember, judges come and go, but we the Bar remain constant. We are the real strength of this great institution because we are permanent,” Mr. Dave wrote in the letter shared with the media. He copied his short address wishing Justice Mishra well, in the letter to the CJI. He indicated that he may have been prevented for fear that “I might say something unpleasant”.  Recounting the series of events, Mr. Dave wrote that the court Registry had sent him a video link, inviting him to participate. He had accepted the invitation. In his letter, he said he was repeatedly disconnected for “some unknown reasons”. “But I persisted and rejoined each time,” he wrote. Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association president Shivaji Jadhav even acknowledged his presence in his address, he said. “I saw and heard Shri Jadhav fully and at the end of his address again, I was not requested to speak though Shri Jadhav has acknowledged my presence in his address. After that Your Lordship (the CJI) spoke, which I saw and heard, and then invited Justice Mishra to speak. At that stage realising the game plan I exited in the larger interests of the dignity of the Bar and myself,” he wrote. Mediapersons saw the CJI repeatedly asking if anyone wanted to speak soon after Mr. Jadhav finished his address. Mr. Dave's window box was not visible on the TV screen. “The entire episode leaves much to be desired on the part of this great Institution. The whole attempt was to prevent me from addressing on behalf of the SCBA and its EC, after having invited and invitation having been accepted. This was clearly an affront to the Bar and to me personally,” Mr. Dave wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-allowed-to-speak-at-mishra-send-off-says-dave/article32509452.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Talks at Chushul remain inconclusive||The action is centred around the Black Top area and around Rezang La and Rechin La. At the same time, the Army also strengthened its positions on the North Bank as a precaution. “As part of the precautionary deployment carried out on August 30, some readjustments of our positions on North Bank of Pangong Tso on our side of to the Line of Actual Control had also been carried out,” the source stated. On August 29, PLA troops came towards Rezang La but they were pushed back, a second source said. On Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs said Chinese troops had engaged in “provocative action” along the disputed boundary once again on August 31 even as the Brigadier level talks were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/talks-at-chushul-remain-inconclusive/article32509450.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Question Hour dropped in monsoon session||The two-hour break between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. would be used to disinfect both the chambers, said an official. Earlier, as reported by The Hindu , two four-hour slots (10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 p.m.-8 p.m.) were under discussion for staggered timings for the two Houses to meet instead of simultaneous proceedings. The session will have 18 sittings, which includes two working Saturdays and Sundays each, and will end on October 1. Deputy Leader of the Lok Sabha and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had reached out to senior Opposition leaders, including Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mr. Chowdhury and Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien before finalising the plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/question-hour-dropped-in-monsoon-session/article32509451.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||UNSC blocks Pak. bid to name Indians in terror list||The UN Security Council, led by France, UK and the U.S., has rejected attempts by Pakistan to designate Indians as terrorists under its 1267 Committee for Counterterrorism Sanctions. The UNSC committee decided to block the designations of Angara Appaji and Gobinda Patnaik on Wednesday, part of a group of four Indians that Pakistan alleged formed an Afghanistan-based “Indian terror syndicate” that was organising the banned terror groups Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and Jamaat-Ul-Ahrar to carry out attacks in Pakistan. Two other Indian names proffered by Pakistan were also blocked: Venumadhav Dongara was blocked by the US on June 19, and Ajoy Mistry had been blocked by US, UK, France, Germany and Belgium on July 16, respectively. The same five countries had also placed a “hold” on Mr. Appaji and Mr. Patnaik’s names, asking Pakistan to furnish evidence of their involvement. Since the evidence was not provided, officials said the committee decided to “block” or reject all the names. According to sources, all five countries placing the hold also blocked it, although U.S., UK and France were prime movers, indicating that the other permanent members, China and Russia, did not try to block the move by Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unsc-blocks-pak-bid-to-name-indians-in-terror-list/article32509463.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Right to question govt. will be lost: Opposition||Opposition parties have objected to the decision to suspend Question Hour in the upcoming session of Parliament, seeing in it a ploy to do away with any form of accountability. Trinamool Congress Parliamentary Party leader (Rajya Sabha) Derek O’Brien said the Opposition would lose the right to question the government. “The government says they have allowed Zero Hour in which matters of urgent importance can be raised, but one has to remember that Ministers are not liable to reply to the issues raised during the Zero Hour,” he said. He pointed out that there had only been four special sessions when there was no Question Hour. “During the 33rd (1961), 93rd (1975), 98th (1976) and 99th (1977) sessions there was no Question Hour as these sessions were summoned for special purposes — [passing of State budget of] Orissa, Proclamation of Emergency, 44th Amendment, President’s Rule Tamil Nadu and Nagaland. The upcoming Monsoon Session is a regular session,” he added. CPI’s Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam, in a letter to Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, said Question Hour and other instruments like the calling attention motion were integral to the democratic functioning of Parliament and had never been done away with in the history of Independent India. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad has convened a meeting of Parliamentary Strategy Group of the Congress on Thursday to discuss the upcoming session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-to-question-govt-will-be-lost-opposition/article32509478.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Probe into another case led to drug case suspect||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday said investigation into a separate case led it to one Basit Parihar with suspected links to those under the scanner in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Based on inputs from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), pertaining to mobile chats about procurement, transportation and consumption of drugs by some suspects in Sushant’s case, the NCB registered an FIR under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. On the intervening night of August 27 and 28, the NCB conducted a raid in Mumbai and arrested Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora after the seizure of bud (curated marijuana) from them. The follow-up investigation uncovered the linkages of Lakhani with one Zaid Vilatra, said the NCB. It picked up Zaid and during searches, over Rs. 9.55 lakh in cash and foreign currency ($2,081, £180 and 15 Dirham) were seized. He said that they were proceeds of alleged drug peddling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-into-another-case-led-to-drug-case-suspect/article32509482.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Researchers detect virus using mass spectrometer||Using mass spectrometer, researchers at the Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) have been able to detect COVID-19 with 95% sensitivity and 100% specificity with respect to RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). Detection of the virus takes less than three minutes; time from sample preparation to detection takes less than 30 minutes. The new method can directly detect the virus without amplifying the RNA for detection, as is the case with RT-PCR. The new method relies on detecting the presence of two peptides unique to SARS-CoV-2 and not seen in any other coronavirus or other viruses. Quick detection Though seven peptides were found to be unique to SARS-CoV-2, only two peptides are used for quick virus detection. One of the peptides is the spike protein and the other is a replicase protein. The unique peptides were seen in over 54,000 genomic sequences of SARS-CoV-2 deposited in a public database (GISAID) as on July 1. “The sensitivity is 90.4% when compared to RT-PCR if we have very high stringency. By that we mean if the ratio of signal to noise is tenfold. If we use the standard 3.3 times signal to noise ratio [where signal peak is 3.3 times higher than the noise], then the sensitivity is 95%,” said Dr. Shantanu Sengupta from IGIB, who led the team. The results have been published in the Journal of Proteins and Proteomics . “We could detect the peptides of SARS-CoV-2 virus even in patients who have recovered from the symptoms and have tested negative for the virus by RT-PCR. The peptides were present even after 14 days of initial infection. This highlights the sensitivity of the technique.”  “The mass spectrometer is expensive but it would cost only about Rs. 100 per test, and so cheaper than RT-PCR. Many research labs have the mass spectrometer,” Dr. Sengupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/researchers-detect-virus-using-mass-spectrometer/article32509486.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The way of great men||The significance of purana stories lies in the many deep Vedanta truths they convey to the common man. For instance, all of us are aware of the human tendency to err very easily and naturally. This is because the senses in human beings are outward bound and it requires great penance, self control and determination to overpower the senses, pointed out Sri Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The Bhagavata Purana quotes the incident of how Brahma, who is guided by the Supreme Lord to create the world and its beings, gets trapped in his desire for Vak, a being of his own creation. He then feels ashamed for this unethical intention. At this point, his own sons, the sages Marichi, Angiras, Atri and others, advise him that his dishonourable desire does not become one who has been endowed with extraordinary powers to create by the Lord. It is a fact that at times even Indra and other celestial beings yield to passions and commit sins. There is much danger in such acts of theirs as these can send wrong signals to the common man. But by virtue of their severe penance, they make amends for their sins. In the case of Brahma, he sheds his present body as prayaschitta and then gains another one to continue creation. Similarly, during the instance of Daksha Yagna, Dakshayani too gives up her body through severe penance when she feels remorse at the turn of events and she regrets her act of not heeding Siva’s words. Such rigorous penance and prayaschitta are not possible for all. That is why in the Gita, Krishna states that much depends on the character and behaviour of great men whose example has a strong and guiding effect on common people. “Whatsoever a great man does, the same is done by others as well. Whatever standard he sets, the world follows.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-way-of-great-men/article32509479.ece
03 September 2020||Abhinay Deshpande Hyderabad,||Five Pawan Kalyan fans killed in road accident||Less than an hour after they celebrated Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan’s birthday, five youngsters were killed when a sand-laden lorry collided with a sedan car they were travelling in Telangana’s Warangal district in the wee hours of Wednesday. The victims were going to Mulugu, about 50 km from Warangal town, to drop-off one of them after cutting a cake and celebrating the Jana Sena Party chief’s birthday. A speeding sand-laden lorry on its way to Hyderabad from Kaleshwaram hit the car from the opposite direction, as a result, five people occupied in the ill-fated car died on the spot. The accident took place between 1 a.m. and 1.30 a.m. at Pasaragonda Crossroad in Damera Mandal, according to police. The victims were identified as Mekala Rakesh from Warangal, Kande Jayaprakash of Hanomakonda, Medichandu Rohit, Naresh and Sabir, all aged around 25 years. Jayaprakesh was behind the wheel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-pawan-kalyan-fans-killed-in-road-accident/article32510015.ece
03 September 2020||Srinagar,||Lt. Governor Sinha tours Pulwama||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday toured the most volatile and militancy-affected Pulwama district and said his administration was “committed to adding value to the lives of people in J&K.” The Lt. Governor met public delegations and e-inaugurated 20 developmental projects worth Rs. 40.86 crore. He also chaired a meeting to review the developmental scenario in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lt-governor-sinha-tours-pulwama/article32509458.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||3 more official languages for J&K||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Bill to include Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as official languages in the newly-created Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Only English and Urdu were official languages in the erstwhile State. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet had approved the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill to be introduced in Parliament to make Urdu, Kashmiri, Dogri, Hindi and English official languages for the Union Territory.  Parliament is scheduled to meet from September 14 to October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-more-official-languages-for-jk/article32509464.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests ‘hawala’ operator||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested notorious “hawala” operator Naresh Jain who, along with his accomplices, is alleged to have rotated funds to the tune of Rs. 96,000 crore in India using over 600 bank accounts. The accused also got transferred about Rs. 11,800 crore to 114 overseas accounts. The agency has secured Mr. Jain’s nine-day custody for questioning. Investigations have so far revealed that 450 shell companies were used to rotate the funds for providing accommodation entries of about Rs. 18,680 crore to more than 970 beneficiaries. International syndicate It is alleged that Mr. Jain ran an international syndicate of transferring funds through “hawala” channels using shell companies, tour-and-travel firms and through the formal banking network. He was once pursued by the law enforcement agencies of Italy and the United Arab Emirates. Earlier, he had also come under the scanner of authorities in the United States and the United Kingdom. The ED in January 2016 served a show-cause notice on him and others for alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violations involving about Rs. 1,204 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-hawala-operator/article32509471.ece
03 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Kafeel Khan to stay away from U.P.||“I will not bend,” said Kafeel Khan soon after he stepped out of the Mathura jail late on Tuesday following the revocation of the charges under the National Security Act (NSA) against him by the Allahabad High Court. Talking to The Hindu over the phone, Dr. Khan said the Uttar Pradesh government had targeted him and planned to keep him inside jail indefinitely for asking questions about the 2017 oxygen tragedy in the BRD Hospital in Gorakhpur. ‘Paying the price’ He said he was paying the price for “raising voice of 70 kids who died in the oxygen tragedy”. “All I asked is — if Dr. Kafeel is not the murderer, then who is?” said Dr. Kafeel. Soon after his release, Dr. Khan was driven by his family to Rajasthan where he is expected to spend the next few weeks. His family says they want him to avoid U.P. for the time being due to safety reasons and the fear of being falsely implicated. “When I was arrested in Mumbai, I had said even then I would be killed in an encounter. For this reason, we will spend some days outside U.P.,” he said. The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday set aside the NSA charges against Dr. Khan, terming it illegal, and directed the Uttar Pradesh government to forthwith release him from jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kafeel-khan-to-stay-away-from-up/article32509474.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to stay Gunjan Saxena||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined a petition by the Centre and the Indian Air Force (IAF) to stay the streaming of Netflix movie Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl. It, however, said it would hear directly from former Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena on the allegations that the movie depicted the force in a bad light. Justice Rajiv Shakdher made Ms. Saxena, based on whose life the movie is made, a party in the suit filed by the government and sought response from her on the issue. The court also sought the response of movie producer Dharma Productions Private Limited, director Karan Johar and Netflix. The court asked the government as to why it did not approach it before the release of the movie on the Over The Top (OTT) platform. It said a stay could not be granted now as the film was already streaming. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain said the movie was never shown to the preview panel, set up in accordance with the Ministry of Defence’s 2013 guidelines. The Ministry of Defence and the IAF, in the suit filed through Central government standing counsel Gaurang Kanth, stated that the IAF “has always provided equal opportunities to the meritorious officers irrespective of their gender, caste, region, religion, etc.” ‘Image tarnished’ The Ministry stated that a historical film made on the IAF, based on the life story of a war hero, had to be based on true incidents or instances as the audience watching such a biopic film assumed so. “Such a movie cannot be fictionalised or dramatised to such an extent as in the present movie, wherein an entirely different perspective is created based on false and misleading facts/events that leave an adverse impression in the minds of the viewers, thereby tarnishing the image of the true characters and the organisation,” the Ministry argued. “The facts have been completely distorted to give an impression to the public at large that the Indian Air Force practises gender bias and discrimination,” it said. The suit stated that the producers of the movie went ahead with its release on Netflix without obtaining a no objection certificate from the IAF. Senior Advocate Harish Salve, representing Dharma Productions, said the movie was only ‘inspired’ from the life of Ms. Saxena. Mr. Salve, who claimed to have seen the movie, said the Air Force came out in glory. “There is no organisation which does not have gender issue. Anything said in criticism is not slander,” he added. Netflix’s counsel argued that the script was shared with the IAF and that the movie was shown to the IAF in February 2020. The High Court will hear the case again on September 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-refuses-to-stay-gunjan-saxena/article32509492.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bitumen scam: ED attaches firm’s assets||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 1.83 crore in connection with the bitumen scam in Jharkhand. A commercial and a residential property are located in Ranchi, while a parcel of land is in Ramgarh. The assets are in the name of Classic Coal Construction Pvt. Ltd., its then managing director Pawan Kumar Singh and Classic Multiplex. The ED probe is based on four FIRs registered by the CBI against Classic Coal Construction and 26 others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bitumen-scam-ed-attaches-firms-assets/article32509704.ece
03 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,||Narayanasamy writes to PM on GST compensation issue||Completely disagreeing with the Centre’s proposal that the States and the Union Territories borrow to meet the shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) after the COVID-19 pandemic hit the country, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said under the GST Act, 2017, the Union government was bound to compensate the States for loss of revenue. In an online press conference, the Chief Minister said the Centre’s proposal at the GST Council meeting was that the States and the Union Territories consider borrowing to compensate the deficit of Rs. 2.3 lakh crore in the current fiscal. “The Centre has asked us to borrow and repay the amount in five years. It is not at all acceptable and I have written to the Prime Minister, asking the Centre to compensate for the loss. It is easy for the Union government to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India or other agencies,” the Chief Minister said. Expressing displeasure at the lack of public cooperation to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Chief Minister said that without the public adhering to the advisory of maintaining social distancing and personal hygiene, the pandemic could not be controlled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narayanasamy-writes-to-pm-on-gst-compensation-issue/article32509653.ece
03 September 2020||ANDIPATTI,TAMIL NADU||11th standard student ends life||A 11th standard student ended his life as he could not cope with the online classes. Police said that Vikrapandi, 16, son of Illangovan of Karadupatti near Andipatti in Theni district, was studying in a private school in Tiruchi. The school was conducting online classes. Vikrapandi told his father that he could not understand them. His father told him to follow the classes. Unable to do so, the student hanged himself. When his father rushed him to the Government Hospital, the doctors declared him ‘brought dead.’ K Vilakku police have registered a case and sent the body for post mortem. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11th-standard-student-ends-life/article32509954.ece
03 September 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur Collector distributes medical kits||Collector D. Rathna on Wednesday inaugurated the distribution of Amma COVID-19 medical kits for patients in home isolation. She said that all 39 primary health centres, three block-level government hospitals, Ariyalur Medical College Hospital and a mobile hospital were working in tandem to identify and treat COVID-19 patients in the district. Fever camps were being conducted at 40 locations daily. Patients, who tested positive for the virus, were treated at various government hospitals. In addition to them, a Siddha Covid-19 Care centre had also been established to treat asymptomatic patients. Depending on the condition of patients, doctors advised asymptomatic patients to undergo home quarantine. Free of cost Such patients would be given Amma COVID-19 medical kits. Each kit would have 14 face masks, sanitiser, soap, packets ofkabasura kudineerand multi-vitamin and zinc tablets. They were being distributed free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-collector-distributes-medical-kits/article32510000.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Can’t suspend life sentence of teacher: HC||“The petitioner, a teacher, has behaved like a monster,” the Madras High Court observed, refusing to suspend the life sentence imposed on the 38-year-old mathematics teacher convicted for having subjected a 12-year-old girl student to aggravated sexual assault after taking her to Tirupati and Hogenekkal in June 2016. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani agreed with Additional Public Prosecutor M. Prabhavathi that the convict S. Rajiv Gandhi of Panruti taluk in Cuddalore district did not deserve any mercy. They also rejected the convict’s claim that the act was consensual and hence it could not be termed as aggravated sexual assault. “This court is unable to understand how a minor girl’s consent can be taken as consent… A teacher who is supposed to mould a student by his teaching has done an act which is prohibited under law. It is going to last long and pain the victim throughout her life,” the Bench said while dismissing a petition for suspension of sentence. However, when advocate R. Sankarasubbu contended that the convict had a right to speedy trial, the judges directed the High Court Registry to list the convict’s appeal for final hearing on September 14. The appeal was preferred against a verdict delivered by Cuddalore mahila court judge D. Lingeswaran on November 14, 2018. “Today, 14th November is celebrated as Children’s Day. A teacher who should protect a student in the school, a teacher who should be a mentor for the student has betrayed the faith of her parents and also that of society,” the judge said before sentencing the convict to a life term, besides imposing a fine of Rs. 1 lakh with a default sentence of two more years. He pointed out that the victim was exactly 12 years and 8 months old when she was exploited by the convict. She had just then completed Class VIII and got promoted to Class IX. The convict, in turn, had got married to a woman five months before he took the student to Tirupati and tied a thali just to hoodwink hotel staff. The child was exploited between June 6 and June 13, 2016, and was sent back to her parents after the teacher came to know of a police complaint lodged by them suspecting him to have kidnapped her. The convict, however, remained absconding for about three months and surrendered to the police only on September 14, 2016, after making attempts to obtain anticipatory bail. Though his wife deposed before the court that her husband was with her between June 6 and 13, 2016, the trial court rejected her evidence and held that the evidence adduced by the victim, despite being subjected to cross examination, was “clear, cogent, consistent, believable and definitely inspires the confidence of the court.” The court said the child’s deposition corroborated with medical evidence and materials, such as a register maintained by a lodge in Hogenekkal, and the failure of the convict as well as the victim to attend school during the days in question. It convicted the appellant under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act of 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cant-suspend-life-sentence-of-teacher-hc/article32509629.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,990 persons test positive for infection||Another 5,990 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally to 4,39,959. Chennai accounted for 1,025 of the fresh cases, while Coimbatore’s daily count stood at 579. Cuddalore and Salem each saw 400-plus cases. While 5,891 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment, another 98 persons (57 in government hospitals and 41 in private ones), including three non-agenarians, succumbed to the infection. With this, a total of 3,80,063 persons have been discharged in the State so far, while the toll has touched 7,516. Of the fatalities, Chennai recorded 19, while nine persons died in Kanniyakumari and eight in Chengalpattu. Fatalities recorded A 37-year-old man from Tiruvallur had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 20. He was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulties on August 31, but died within a few minutes of admission due to COVID-19 pneumonia. He had no co-morbidities. Among the three nonagenarians was a 91-year-old woman who was admitted to a private hospital in Vellore on August 28 with complaints of cough for three days, breathing difficulty for a day and myalgia for three days. She died on August 31 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. Of the fresh cases, Cuddalore recorded 405 and Salem 402. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur saw 390 and 285 cases respectively, while Villupuram had 224 and Tiruvannamalai 213. Ten districts had 100-plus cases each. Apart from these indigenous cases, 28 persons who returned from other States and abroad tested positive for COVID-19. The number of children below 12 years who have tested positive for COVID-19 till now crossed the 20,000-mark. Till date, 20,131 children and 57,306 persons aged over 60 have tested positive for the infection in the State. A total of 49,64,141 samples, including 75,829 in the last 24 hours, have been tested in the State. The Government District Head Quarters Hospital in Usilampatti, Madurai, and a private facility — the Gudalur Adivasi Hospital in the Nilgiris — have been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are now a total of 64 testing facilities in the government sector and 90 in private.  Apart from the indigenous cases, 28 persons who returned from other States and abroad tested positive for COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5990-persons-test-positive-for-infection/article32509648.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flower merchants stage protest near Vanagaram||Traffic on the stretch of the Poonamallee High Road near Vanagaram was disrupted on Wednesday as several flower merchants held protests over loss in business and lack of facilities at the temporary market. Several wholesalers, who were allotted space in the Vanagaram temporary market, dumped flowers on the premises as a sign of protest. It may be recalled that the market started functioning on August 20 at a site belonging to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. While nearly 230 shops were allotted on the four-acre plot, about 500 merchants, who were earlier functioning in different parts of the city, gathered to trade. Wholesalers alleged that there was no transparency in rent collection. Arul Visuvasam, a wholesaler, said the site lacked basic amenities and there was a risk of COVID-19 spreading at the market as safety norms, including physical distancing, were not followed. The market was also overcrowded.  “Many merchants have already settled in various parts of the city in smaller groups. We now have to bear more than 50% losses after setting up shops in Vanagaram without any basic facility,” he said. Fruits and vegetable markets were allotted temporary business locations in Madhavaram and Thirumazhisai, immediately after the Koyambedu Wholesale Market complex was closed after it became a COVID-19 hotspot. Forced to move “Several merchants were forced to move to the Vanagaram market and therefore had to bear severe losses,” said A. Manohar, another wholesaler. Merchants demanded that they be allowed to continue their trade from various parts of the city like earlier until the flower section in the Koyambedu Wholesale Market reopened. They dispersed after the Maduravoyal police held discussions with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-merchants-stage-protest-near-vanagaram/article32509613.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘108 ambulances handled over 2 lakh COVID-19 patients’||The 108 ambulance network has handled 2,15,948 COVID-19 patients so far. More than five lakh persons have utilised the ambulance service, including for cardiac arrest, maternal care and accidents, during the pandemic, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “Like all times, the ambulance network provided uninterrupted services, round-the-clock, during the entire lockdown. Other services, such as those for persons with chest pain, cardiac arrest, maternal care and accidents, were not affected, and over five lakh such persons utilised the ambulance service during the pandemic,” he said after inspecting the 108 ambulance network’s emergency response centre on Wednesday. “The Chief Minister is strengthening the 108 ambulance network, and has sanctioned 500 more vehicles, of which 108 have been flagged off. The remaining will be put to use in a phased manner,” he said. In Chennai, the response time of ambulances was being maintained at 8.36 minutes and this was on par with international standards, he said. He also noted that for the first time, a woman ambulance pilot had been recruited. He urged the people to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. “It is important to adhere to the norms laid down by the government to prevent the transmission of COVID-19.” To a question on imposing fines on people for violations, he said steps were being taken to amend the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. On the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, he said the Chief Minister had never given up the rights of the State government and continued to take forward such issues legally. “The Chief Minister is taking necessary steps to protect the State’s rights,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-ambulances-handled-over-2-lakh-covid-19-patients/article32509638.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents worried about boundary markers in Cooum||Stones and poles placed on the Cooum river bed as boundary markers near Arumbakkam have raised concerns over encroachment among residents. They fear it may lead to shrinking of the waterway and affect the efforts to restore the river. However, it turned out to be a tussle for ownership of land between the Water Resources Department (WRD) and the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB). B. Kasturi, a resident of Muthumariamman Nagar, said a few days ago, she spotted stones marked in white and yellow paint and wooden poles on both the river bed and in the water. Several encroached structures had been cleared in the area two years ago and people were given alternative accommodation in Padappai and Tiruvottiyur. TNHB authorities had engaged machinery to level the land near the river bank a fortnight ago, she said. Residents wanted the issue to be solved and the river to be restored to its original width. According to officials of the WRD, TNHB authorities had sought a no objection certificate for construction on the department’s land along the river bank in Arumbakkam. “We inspected the area and found the boundary markers on the river bed. We have informed the board that the 120 m of land from the existing river bank belongs to the WRD as per the field measurement book (FMB),” a WRD official said. The WRD has sought a surveyor from the Survey and Land Records Department to measure the FMB of the lands belonging to it and to the TNHB. According to sources in the TNHB, a 8.5 acre plot of land had been earmarked for development in Muthumariamman Nagar, Arumbakkam. “We will measure the TNHB land for reverification of the FMB,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-worried-about-boundary-markers-in-cooum/article32509616.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seroprevalence of COVID-19 higher among women||Seroprevalence of the COVID-19 infection has been higher among women in Chennai, with 23.7% of 6,493 women exposed to the infection, as per a serosurvey conducted in July. According to the serosurvey, 19.3% of men have been exposed to the infection in the city. Of the 5,785 men who participated in the serosurvey in Chennai, 1,115 were exposed to the infection. Just 12.2% of individuals of the third gender have been exposed to COVID-19. Nearly half the cases in Tamil Nadu have been reported from Chennai. The number of cases have been increasing since May. Following the rising trend in cases, an intense lockdown was imposed in the city from June 19. The objective of the serosurvey was to estimate the seroprevalence of the COVID-19 infection in a general population aged over 10 in Chennai. The serosurvey data will also be used to determine socio-demographic risk factors for the infection in the Greater Chennai Corporation, covering 426 sq km and spanning 15 zones. Survey procedure The sampling procedure of the serosurvey included the selection of 50 of the 200 wards by population proportion-to-size method and the selection of six streets from each ward by simple random sampling. According to the serosurvey, Korrukkupet registered the highest seroprevalence with 50%. Areas such as New Washermenpet, Royapuram, Royapettah, Egmore, Pulianthope and Kaladipet also registered high seroprevalence in the city. But Lakshmipuram in Madhavaram registered only 2% seroprevalence. Raja Annamalaipuram registered a seroprevalence of 25%. Seroprevalence in Chetpet is 22%, Saidapet 23%, Thiruvanmiyur 16%, Anna Nagar 15%, Teynampet 33%, West Mambalam 15% and Saligramam 10%. The estimated number of infections was the highest in Royapuram, with 2.99 lakh persons infected.  The estimated number of infections was the highest in Royapuram with 2.99 lakh persons infected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seroprevalence-of-covid-19-higher-among-women/article32509636.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On Day One of JEE (Main), distancing norms to the fore||On the first day of the Joint Engineering Entrance (Main) test for undergraduate engineering and technology courses on Wednesday, students felt some questions were tough. The test will be held every day until September 6 in two batches. The students had to report at least two hours in advance as they were allowed into the exam centres only in small batches. C. Aditya, who took the test in the first session, said: “We were allowed into the centre in small groups and there were volunteers who ensured that physical distancing norms were strictly adhered to at all times.” He said questions in physics required lengthy calculations and were challenging. Pawan Kumar, deputy director of FIITJEE Chennai, said the test’s difficulty level was moderate. “Physics was more challenging than chemistry and mathematics,” he said. The evening session was held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Balaji Sampath of AhaGuru, which coaches students for competitive tests, said he advised students to take the test from the second day on, so the students “get an idea of how the paper is”. One of his students who took the test in the first session found physics and chemistry easier. According to Grade Up Exam Analysis, the overall level was easy to moderate. Though the mathematics section was lengthy, students were able to attempt 13-14 questions. As much as 60%-70% of the questions were directly from NCERT. A strong conceptual clarity will help students ace the test, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-day-one-of-jee-main-distancing-norms-to-the-fore/article32509642.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail may have trips every 15 minutes||When Metro Rail resumes operation on Monday, there is likely to be a train every 15 minutes throughout the day. The first train may start at 8 a.m. and the last one at 8 p.m. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had a detailed meeting with officials of the Chennai Metro Rail Limited to discuss the Standard Operation Procedure ahead of service resumption. Trials to assess the step by step process of how passengers would be handled in order to ensure physical distancing within stations and trains would begin on Thursday, sources said. The trials will ensure signalling, track, trains and electrical systems function well without any glitches. Stations were disinfected almost every other day, and entry points would be guarded to regulate passenger inflow and avoid crowding, another source said. Passenger movement and adherence to physical distancing will be carefully monitored through CCTV cameras. Officials will ensure that trains run at 50% capacity to maintain physical distancing. Besides this, hand sanitisers will be provided at all important locations. Primary concern “From the time a passenger enters the station and exits at the destination, various arrangements have been made to make sure they feel safe. This is the primary concern now. Frequency and timings of trains can be gradually increased as and when need arises, depending on the patronage,” an official said. Trains will also stop at each station for longer to allow passengers adequate time to board and ensure that there is no crowding at the doors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-may-have-trips-every-15-minutes/article32509619.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumazhisai market will be shut on Sundays this month||The temporary vegetable market in Thirumazhisai will not function on Sundays from September 6 as most demands of the merchants remain unfulfilled. According to D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders’ Associations Koyambedu Wholesale Market complex, a decision was taken to close the market on Sundays till they shift to Koyambedu on September 28. “Traders have been asking for a weekly holiday for many days now as it was tedious for them to travel long distances to do business every day,” he said. The Federation also has plans to request the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority to declare Fridays as a weekly holiday when the market reopens in Koyambedu. Retailers may find it convenient to visit on Sundays due to the proximity, unlike at Thirumazhisai. Since a lot of functions were not organised on Saturdays, the demand for vegetables would be comparatively less on Fridays, Mr. Rajasekaran added. On average, the Thirumazhisai market receives 5,000 tonnes of vegetables daily. Wholesale vegetable merchants were allotted shops at the site in May after the Koyambedu market was shut after it became a COVID-19 hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirumazhisai-market-will-be-shut-on-sundays-this-month/article32509622.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||123 children of policemen get to study courses of their choice||N. Satheesh Babu, a traffic policeman, thanked City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal when his daughter received the admission card from an engineering college in the city. Mr. Babu said, “I never dreamt that my daughter would get admission without a hitch. Thanks to the initiative of the City Police Commissioner, my daughter S. Pauvurnika has been admitted with a full waiver of fees at St. Joseph’s College of Engineering under the management quota. Now I need not pay Rs. 9.28 lakh for the four-year course.” The chairman of St. Joseph’s Group of Institutions, B. Babu Manoharan, handed to her a letter for the waiver of fees at a function. R. Vetrivel Murugan, a sub-inspector, got admission for his daughter V. Senthamizh to B.Sc. (plant biology and biotechnology) in Women’s Christian College. He said, “During the pandemic, we are on the field round the clock and had no time to visit college after college for admission. Personnel who are in the lower rank may not be able to get admission for their wards to dream courses. Now, the Commissioner facilitated the admission of my daughter to the course of her choice...” Like them, 123 children of policemen got admission to courses and colleges of their choice, thanks to an initiative of the city police this year. Mr. Aggarwal handed over the admission cards to them. Mr. Aggarwal said, “Police personnel have been preoccupied with COVID-19 prevention duties round the clock. Many do not have time to look after their families. We have taken a small step to help in the admission of their wards to colleges... So far, we have secured admission for 123 children of police personnel to colleges of their choice.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/123-children-of-policemen-get-to-study-courses-of-their-choice/article32509624.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery water realisation: 11 tmc ft shortfall for Tamil Nadu||After witnessing a heavy inflow of the Cauvery water in the early part of last month, Tamil Nadu ended up with a total shortfall of around 11 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) in the realisation of its share since June. During the period of June-August, the State should have received 86.38 tmc ft. But it got 75.048 tmc ft, of which August accounted for 57.497 tmc ft. The quantum prescribed by the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) for September is 36.76 tmc ft. Though the State received marginally higher last month than its due of 45.95 tmc ft, the quantum it got this time was much lower than what it recorded in August of 2018 and 2019. In those two years, the realisation in the same month was 176.5 tmc ft and 92.331 tmc ft respectively. Senior officials of the Public Works Department express the hope, quoting the forecast by the meteorological department, that in the next one week, the Cauvery catchments in Karnataka and Kerala will experience heavy rain, which will yield another round of heavy flow into Tamil Nadu. Last week, at the meetings of the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee (CWRC) and the CWMA, Karnataka representatives pleaded their inability to give water, as demanded by Tamil Nadu. According to them, this year is a “sub-normal” one, as four reservoirs in the Karnataka portion of the Cauvery basin have not received what they should have. On the contrary, at the Biligundlu gauging site on the inter-State border (which is the reference point for measurement of water flow), Tamil Nadu realised last month more than what it was due. However, Tamil Nadu pointed out that as per the information provided by the meteorological department, areas upstream of Biligundlu had recorded higher rainfall than the normal. This was why Karnataka should stick to water release as stipulated by the CWMA. The next meeting of the CWRC is scheduled for September 9 when Tamil Nadu will reiterate its demand that Karnataka honour the monthly release, as designed by the CWMA, the officials add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-water-realisation-tn-in-for-11-tmc-ft-shortfall/article32509627.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. failed to ensure equal access to online classes: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged the Tamil Nadu government to ensure that all students had equal access to the necessary technology and equipment to be able to attend online classes during the COVID-19 lockdown. Referring to the case of Nithyashree, the daughter of a farmer in Ulundurpet, who reportedly committed suicide following a quarrel with her two sisters over using the only mobile phone available in their house for online classes, Mr. Stalin said her death had proved that online classes were not for everyone. Access to resources “Before taking a decision on online classes, the government seems to have not thought about whether everyone has access to the technology and the financial strength to attend these classes,” he said. The DMK leader alleged that the government was not concerned about whether all students had access to smartphones in order to be able to attend classes, and the potential issues that may arise when, for instance, there are three children in a house — whether all of them have smartphones and internet access, and whether the connection is uninterrupted. “The government is not bothered about any of these issues. It is because of this attitude of the government that Nithyashree’s life was lost,” he said. NEET had taken yet another life with the suicide of Harishma of Kabalam village in Alangudi, he said. “Education should provide equal opportunities to all. Education is not just for getting a degree,” Mr. Stalin added.  Before taking a decision on online classes, the government seems to have not thought about whether everyone has access to technology and the financial strength to attend these classes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-failed-to-ensure-equal-access-to-online-classes-stalin/article32509650.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Disposal of RTI appeals online gathers pace||The pandemic has reportedly not impacted the disposal of cases filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act much. In fact, the disposal of cases has gathered pace online with the Tamil Nadu Information Commission passing orders by making enquiries with petitioners/Public Information Officers (PIOs) over the phone. Initially, the COVID-19 outbreak did pull down the number of judgments to an all-time low of just one case in April. However, the TNIC quickly migrated to an online system, where the Chief/State Information Commissioners conducted enquiries on appeals over the phone with petitioners and PIOs, and wrote judgments. From a single digit in April, the number of judgments/orders passed steadily rose to 934 in July. Lack of public transport “Petitioners or PIOs could not travel since there was no public transport during the lockdown. The commission decided that the pandemic should not slow down the process of disposing cases and quickly moved online. We fix the time with both parties and conduct enquiries over the phone. Since there is no need for the petitioner or PIO to travel to Chennai, it saves a lot of their time and travel cost,” a senior official in the TNIC told The Hindu . Online enquiries are being held on all working days and the TNIC, in its orders, provides a mobile number for WhatsApp communication for petitioners/PIOs to update the status of compliance. However, going by the orders passed in the last three months, it appears that the TNIC is not dealing with appeals related to the police and the Health Department, where a majority of the employees are at the forefront in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic in the State. “Under normal circumstances, if a PIO based in southern districts such as Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Kanniyakumari, Theni and Thoothukudi has to appear for a hearing, it takes two days’ travel by train, either way, to reach the headquarters to appear for enquiry. This involves cost of travel and accommodation, in the form of travelling allowance, dearness allowance, etc. Similarly, the petitioner also has to incur cost, at his own expense, and appear for the hearing. Now, the process has been simplified… Besides the cost of travel and stay, considerable time is also saved for both parties,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disposal-of-rti-appeals-online-gathers-pace/article32509643.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report schools asking for full payment of fees, says Collector||The Chennai District Collector has asked parents to report issues relating to private schools demanding full payment of fees. A press release from Collector R. Seethalakshmi said parents could send their complaints to feescomplaintcell@gmail.com, with details of the educational institution concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-schools-asking-for-full-payment-of-fees-says-collector/article32509614.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petition that had sought lockdown relief closed||The Madras High Court on Wednesday closed a suo motu writ petition that it had taken up after the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to grant extraordinary relief such as extending the validity of bail and parole orders passed by criminal courts across the State, besides staying all eviction, dispossession and demolition drives. Omnibus protection Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha closed the writ petition after observing that the lockdown norms had been relaxed to a great extent and, hence, there was no need for granting such an omnibus protection to litigants who could now approach the jurisdictional court concerned and obtain individual relief in their favour. The case was closed after hearing State government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan and Greater Chennai Corporation standing counsel K. Raja Shrinivas, who stated that the civic body was unable to lock and seal unauthorised and illegal buildings in the city due to the orders passed by the High Court on the suo motu writ petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-that-had-sought-lockdown-relief-closed/article32509640.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ID cards taken from MNREGA workers in Tiruvallur||Confusion prevailed in Mufuskhanpet village in Tiruvallur after local administration officials reportedly snatched the identity cards of 74 Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers and threatened them, forcing them to undergo COVID-19 tests on Tuesday. Over 74 workers, including persons with disabilities, work under the MNREGA scheme in the village. “On Tuesday, panchayat staff asked us to undergo a COVID-19 test. We refused, stating that we did not have any symptoms but they immediately snatched all our identity cards and went away,” claimed A. Amudha, a beneficiary. “Around 50 workers then took the test. When they got their cards back on Wednesday, the words ‘COVID Done’ was written on them,” alleged D. Anandakumar, Tiruvallur district president, Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers. A local administrative official denied that the workers were forced to undergo the test after their ID cards were snatched. “A COVID-19 testing camp was conducted and we wanted everyone to undergo the test,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/id-cards-taken-from-mnrega-workers-in-tiruvallur/article32509625.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Last date extended for other State candidates||Candidates from other States who wish to apply to the undergraduate and MCA programmes offered by Anna University may do so till September 30. The university has extended the last date for registration and submission of applications online for admission to B.E/B.Tech/B.Arch/M.C.A degree programmes (for other State candidates only).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-date-extended-for-other-state-candidates/article32509634.ece
03 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department administers medicines to injured elephant||Multi-grain flour (s athu maavu) and rice flour are among the favourite food of ‘Bulldozer’, a makna (tuskless male elephant) that earned the nickname for damaging houses for food in villages in the forest peripheries of Coimbatore and Palakkad districts. When the makna was recently found with a grave injury in its mouth, believed to be caused in a crude bomb explosion, the Forest Department did not have a second thought on the food in which the medicines can be mixed and administered to it. The makna had damaged a few houses within the limits of Pooluvapatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division last week and officials found that it had particularly relished multi-grain flour and rice flour. “One of the house owners said that the makna mainly ate multi-grain flour. So we mixed essential drugs in powder form with the flour and kept at different places. The elephant ate all of them,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle. The makna that was active in Sholayur and Attappadi areas of Palakkad came to Coimbatore side in early August. It later returned to Sholayur and the Kerala Forest Department tranquillized it for treatment. Kerala officials informed their counterparts in Coimbatore that its condition was serious due to the grave injury in the oral cavity. “The makna is unable to chew due to the injury. It sprays water into its mouth and small amounts go inside. Similarly, it takes flour using trunk and sprays into the mouth,” said an official who has been monitoring the elephant’s health. The makna was found within the limits of Coimbatore forest range on Tuesday night. It moved around eight km at night, damaged three thatched houses and raided crops in Nanjundapuram village. As the elephant is likely to raid houses for soft food, the Forest Department has issued advisory to the people in the villages where the elephant might stray into. Storing edible items such as rice, maize, millet flour, wheat, salt, jaggery, sugar etc., in houses close to forests may attract elephants. Hence, villagers were asked to sprinkle turmeric and chilli powder around the houses and over the stored items. They were also advised to keep lights on at night and use flickering lights to discourage elephants from coming into houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-administers-medicines-to-injured-elephant/article32509681.ece
03 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Parents can complain against schools demanding full fees||The district administration in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Salem said on Wednesday that parents could lodge complaints against schools if the institutions compelled them to pay 100 % fees for the lockdown period. Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani said complaints could be e-mailed to ceocbe1feescomplaint@gmail.com if any private school demanded a fee greater than 40% of that of the previous academic year. All complaints received through this mail address will be investigated, he said. The Madras High Court in July permitted private schools in the State to collect only 40% of the fees that was fixed for the academic year 2019-20. Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said parents could send their complaints to schooleducationtiruppur @gmail.com. In Salem, Collector S.A. Raman said parents can send their complaints to ceosalemfeescomplaint@gmail.com. Demanding 100 % fee would be in violation of the court order. If the complaints were found to be true, show cause notices would be issued to the institution and stern action taken against them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-can-complain-against-schools-demanding-full-fees/article32509676.ece
03 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents submit petition against builder||Owners association of a gated community on Tiruchi Road petitioned District Collector, Police Commissioner and Corporation Commissioner levelling various allegations against the builder on Wednesday. TVH Vista Heights Owners’ Association petitioned the authorities, alleging that the project was delayed for 10 years and no compensation was handed over to them. They alleged that they were not given proper plan of the project. The petition alleged that works of facilities such as mall and clubhouse were not completed and they were yet to get drinking water supplied by the Corporation. The petitions submitted by association president G.R. Mohan further said that the builder was giving no answer whenever owners asked about the corpus fund of about Rs. 4 crore. It said that the owners had represented the issue before the Collector four years ago and he had given strict warning to the builder. The petition alleged that the owners and their family members were getting threats from the builder when they raise various issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-submit-petition-against-builder/article32509687.ece
03 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from house||The Singanallur police have registered a case in connection with a house break-in reported at SIHS Colony between Saturday evening and Tuesday morning. Police said that four sovereigns of jewellery was stolen from the house of Venkadsala Moorthy at Karunanidhi Nagar. The burglars had entered the house after breaking open the front door.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-house/article32509686.ece
03 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise an online training course in occupational health and safety from September 16. The last day for registration is September 14. Those with any degree or diploma can register. For registration, visit https://tinyurl.com/CPC-SAFETYCOURSE For details, call or WhatsApp 99524 04302 and 82200 00371/2/3/4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article32509685.ece
03 September 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cash assistance given to ineligible PM-KISAN beneficiaries recovered||The district administration has recovered cash assistance to the tune of Rs. 4.2 crore credited into the bank accounts of 18,125 ineligible beneficiaries and non-farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme in Cuddalore district. The cash was recovered after an enquiry by the district administration revealed that over 40,000 ineligible beneficiaries had received benefits under the scheme. The PM-KISAN scheme aims at giving Rs. 6,000 in three instalments a year to farmers who own up to two hectares of cultivable land. The scam came to light recently after the third instalment was credited into the bank accounts of beneficiaries. As many as 1.79 lakh farmers are covered under the scheme in Cuddalore district. Official sources said that the administration cross checked the list of beneficiaries with their land holdings and bank accounts across the district. Of the 80,752 beneficiaries added under the scheme after April, over 40,000 were found to be ineligible. Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri said that officials from the Revenue and Agriculture Departments conducted field verification and prepared a list of ineligible beneficiaries. 18,125 beneficiaries A sum of Rs. 4.2 crore has been recovered from 18,125 beneficiaries while steps have been initiated to recover the amount from another 23,000 ineligible beneficiaries in Cuddalore district. Sources said that the amount had been remitted into the public account of the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-assistance-given-to-ineligible-pm-kisan-beneficiaries-recovered/article32509633.ece
03 September 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Three-year-old boy electrocuted||A three-year-old boy was electrocuted here on Tuesday. The incident happened when Srivarshan had accompanied his father Kandasamy to his field where he was cultivating groundnuts. The boy, left on his own, was playing with a stick, which was suspected to have come into contact a live wire that had snapped. The boy was rushed to the Dharmapuri Government Medical College hospital, where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-year-old-boy-electrocuted/article32509671.ece
03 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Three students drown in tank||Three students - all in the age group of 13 and 14 years - had a watery grave here on Wednesday. According to Fire and Rescue Service department personnel, Rahul, 14, son of Anbalagan of Palamarathupatti, Satish, 13, son of Baskar Arulanandam of Rediyapatti and Sujeeth Brono, 13, son of Sahayaraj of Sirumalaipirivu near here went to Kondaiya Pillai tank in their locality for a swim. Two other friends joined them. It is said that when Rahul went inside a deep area, he drowned and raised an alarm. Immediately, two other friends rushed there to save him but they reportedly drowned within a few minutes. The three bodies were taken to the Government Hospital for post-mortem. Dindigul Taluk police have registered a case.  Four surrender in court Four suspects wanted in connection with the murder of Arun Prakash, 22, surrendered before a Judicial Magistrate Court in Lalgudi on Wednesday. The police said that Left Shaik, Saddam, Ajis and Kasim Rahman surrendered before the court. The Kenikarai police had registered a murder case and were on the look out for the accused persons. The police detained three persons after the heinous crime was reported two days ago in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-students-drown-in-tank/article32509943.ece
03 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plan to fill water bodies with LBP canal seepage opposed||Stating that the proposed project to draw Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal seepage to fill water bodies in Perundurai Town Panchayat will turn 2,400 acres of agriculture land barren, various farmers’ associations have raised concern over the project. The Perumal Temple at Thiruvachi village in Perundurai block owns land near the LBP canal. The panchayat had purchased one acre from the temple and created a pond. It has planned to draw water from the pond and fill three water bodies to benefit the local people. But farmers said the LBP canal seepage was the main source of water for Perumpallam Canal that reaches anicut at Surampatti from where Nanjai Uthukuli canal originates to irrigate 2,400 acre. “Drawing water for non-ayacut areas will result in acute water shortage for farmers”, said Subbu, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association. He alleged that the anicut at Surampatti and six seepage ponds in Thindal areas would turn dry if the seepage was drawn for filling water bodies. C. Nallasamy, president, Keel Bhavani Pasana Vivasaigal Nala Sangam and K.V. Ponnaiyan, president, Tamil Nadu Swadeshi Farmers’ Assocaition said the new project was proposed for political gain and the district administration and the Public Works Department officials who should protect the LBP canal project are acting against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-fill-water-bodies-with-lbp-canal-seepage-opposed/article32509683.ece
03 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Rain leaves puddles on roads in Erode||Several parts of the district received widespread rain during the intervening night of Tuesday- Wednesday bringing down the temperature here. Gunderipallam received the highest rainfall of 85.5mm followed by Talavadi with 69 mm in the last 24 hours ending 8 a.m. on Wednesday.  The rain also led to stagnation of water on many roads in the city while the vegetable market at VOC Park Ground turned slushy. Traders wanted concrete flooring to be done so that vehicles do not get struck in the slush and people can move without trouble. Due to heavy winds at a few villages in Anthiyur, standing banana crops were damaged as farmers wanted compensation for the crop loss. The rain also led to formation of temporary waterfalls on Dhimbam Ghat Road and Dindigul – Mysuru National Highway on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-leaves-puddles-on-roads-in-erode/article32509669.ece
03 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Demolish encroachments in Kanirowther Lake’||Members of the Kanirowther Lake Retrieval Movement have accused the Erode Corporation of helping encroachers by constructing a pathway to protect the unauthorised buildings in Kanirowther Lake. According to the members, the lake, originally spread over 40 acre, was reduced to 14.40 acre following the construction of a four-storeyed commercial building. As per the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Building Rules, 1972, buildings or any structures should be constructed 15 metres away from water bodies after obtaining permission. “But the buildings were constructed on the lake bed. The court, district collector and the district revenue officer had termed it as an ‘unauthorised structure’ and asked the civic body to demolish it many years ago. But instead of initiating action against the encroachers, the Corporation was constructing a pathway,” they alleged. They alleged that the water inlet channel to the lake was closed and a road was laid for the benefit of encroachers. They wanted the authorities concerned to carry out a detailed survey of the lake and mark the boundaries. Led by the Movement’s coordinator Nilavan, the members along with various political parties staged a protest here recently demanding demolition of the illegal buildings in the lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolish-encroachments-in-kanirowther-lake/article32509679.ece
03 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite road re-laying works on Sipcot premises’||Members of the Perundurai SIPCOT Affected People Welfare Association have urged the Sipcot management to expedite the ongoing road re-laying works on the premises. In a letter to the Managing Director of Sipcot, Chennai, association coordinator S. Chinnasamy said that over 250 industries were functioning on Sipcot premises, spread across 2,700 acre, for the last 20 years. Two years ago, the roads were badly damaged and Rs. 12.5 crore was sanctioned by the government to re-lay them. However, the roads re-laid by the contractor were in poor quality and the association lodged a complaint demanding action against the contractor. But no action was taken.The letter said that they would be forced to organise a protest if the road works were not completed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-road-re-laying-works-on-sipcot-premises/article32509682.ece
03 September 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Post-Covid 19 Care Clinic at Karaikal govt. hospital||The Karaikal district administration will start a post-COVID 19 Care Clinic at the Government General Hospital. The outpatient department will be functional from Monday to Saturday from 8 a.m. to 10.30 a.m., Collector Arjun Sharma said in a press release. The District Health Helpline (04368-261242) has been operationalised for providing round-the-clock support. In another release, the Collector has said the post-COVID 19 psychological support service will be provided to discharged patients by a counselling team to identify symptoms of post-intensive care syndrome. The team of Assistant Professors to provide non-medical psychological counselling comprise K. Sivakumar (9842054554), V. Lakshmanapathy (9486537933), T. Peter Antony (9487034068), Sundar Arumugam (9443956694) and S. Padmavathy (9487671911). They will maintain a log book of calls attended and details of counselling services provided, and submit monthly report. Callers requiring medical counselling support will be referred to Balan Stephen (9486940820), Specialist in Psychiatry, Government General Hospital, Karaikal, or the Post-COVID 19 Care Clinic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-covid-19-care-clinic-at-karaikal-govt-hospital/article32509995.ece
03 September 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri Collector assumes charge||Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy assumed charge as Collector of Krishnagiri District on Wednesday. Dr. Bhanu Reddy, who had completed his medicine from NTR University of Health Sciences, was earlier Executive Officer, Dhandayudhapani Temple, Palani. In a brief meeting with reporters, Dr. Bhanu Reddy said he would act as a bridge between the government and the people. He has taken charge as the 11th District Collector of Krishnagiri, replacing S. Prabhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-collector-assumes-charge/article32509673.ece
03 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Artist alleges assault by Minister’s supporters||A wall painting artist, P. Gajendra Muthu, 43, has alleged that supporters of a State Minister, assaulted him for tearing posters on the compound wall of a Corporation school here on Wednesday. In his complaint to Teppakulam police, Mr. Muthu said the school Headmistress had asked him to tear the posters and write the name of the school along with couplets from Tirukkural on the compound wall. He alleged that when he was peeling off the posters, some of them containing the minister’s image, on the wall of Manimegalai Girls High School on Kamarajar Salai, a policeman summoned him to a nearby building. “When I went there, the minister angrily questioned me as to how I could tear the posters? Some of the AIADMK cadre then asked me to leave the spot,” Mr. Muthu said, adding that he returned to his work spot. “Suddenly, some of the minister’s supporters rushed towards me and abused me. The watchman of the other building, along with another man, slapped me,” he said. The complainant, who is a Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre, took up the issue with his party functionaries. “We advised him to lodge a complaint as a precaution as he has been assaulted,” said CPI(M) Madurai urban district secretary Vijayarajan. The police have promised to register a case after consulting with their higher-ups, Mr. Vijayarajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artist-alleges-assault-by-ministers-supporters/article32509958.ece
03 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tree falls in rain, power supply cut||A big neem tree on the veterinary polyclinic campus in Tallakulam was uprooted following rain which lashed from Tuesday night to the early hours of Wednesday. The tree fell on a power line, disrupting electricity supply to the hospital and adjoining government offices of the Animal Husbandry department. It also blocked the entrance to the polyclinic. A source from the department said had the tree fell during working hours, many lives would have been lost. Without power supply and lack of a power generator, the services at the veterinary hospital was also affected. The veterinarians were unable to take scans or X-rays. Vaccines stocked in the fridge were shifted to another centre for safe keeping. “Senior officials from the department, including the Joint Director, had informed the Public Works Department that the neem tree could fall anytime. However, despite repeated requests, no action was taken,” the source said. Joint Director R. Rajathilagan said they had informed the PWD about the fallen tree in the morning. "Power supply is yet to return. They have promised to clear the area by Thursday morning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tree-falls-in-rain-power-supply-cut/article32509966.ece
03 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Jobs to be generated for rural youth in IT sector||Steps were being taken to generate employment opportunities for youth in the information technology sector, said Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar. Addressing the media after having a meeting with Additional Chief Secretary (IT) Hans Raj Varma here on Wednesday, he said global IT majors had been invited to visit Tamil Nadu and invest in the State. Once they set shop across the State, they would open avenues for employment in rural areas for the benefit of the youth. “Last year, when Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and some of us (ministers) visited the United States of America, we discerned a lot of interest among expatriates from Tamil Nadu to develop the IT sector in the State,” Mr. Udhayakumar said. The Chief Minister also took part in a number of meetings in the US to attract investments to the State. “Once rural areas start generating employment with the setting up of industries and IT firms, migration of youth to big cities would stop and bring prosperity to rural areas, he said.  We discerned interest among expatriates from Tamil Nadu to develop the IT sector in the State  R. B. UdhayakumarRevenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jobs-to-be-generated-for-rural-youth-in-it-sector/article32509959.ece
03 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No action against suspended staff means loss to exchequer’||Deprecating the practice of placing government employees under suspension without initiating disciplinary proceedings, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that this amounted to loss to government exchequer as subsistence allowance is paid to them without extracting any work from them. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that it had become a practice to place erring officials or employees under suspension for months, years and sometimes even decades. Instead, the authorities could speed up disciplinary proceedings by issuing charge memos, and conducting and completing inquiries. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Poomani who was placed under suspension by the District Social Welfare Officer, Tiruchi, on the ground that an inquiry was pending against the petitioner for failing to attend office. However, the petitioner cited lack of transport during the COVID-19 lockdown as the reason for not being able to attend office. The judge said for the past four months, the officials had not taken any further action, except placing the petitioner under suspension. The court wanted to know why no disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the petitioner, and adjourned the case till September 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-action-against-suspended-staff-means-loss-to-exchequer/article32509963.ece
03 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Annai statue issue: BJP functionary booked||A Bharatiya Janata Party functionary has been booked for adorning the statue of Tamil Annai here with a saffron garland. On being elected as district office-bearer for Tamil Development, Sathish Azad and some of his party men offered prayers at the statue at Tamukkam on August 28. A flower garland and artificial garland in saffron was used for adorning the statue on the occasion. The Tallakulam police have booked him and others on charges of wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riots and negligent act. He was arrested and let on bail, the police said. Other incidents The arrest comes close on the heels of controversies over draping of statues of Dravidian leaders Periyar, Anna and M.G. Ramachandran in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-annai-statue-issue-bjp-functionary-booked/article32509964.ece
03 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cashier booked for embezzlement||A cashier working at Tamil Nadu Food Grains Marketing Yard in Sikkander Chavadi has been accused of misappropriating Rs. 6 lakh. In his complaint, the yard’s managing director S. Rethinavelu said it was found that the cashier had been siphoning off funds since December 2018. The annual audit revealed that she had not properly deposited money collected from traders to the marketing yard’s account. She had misappropriated Rs. 6.05 lakh. The Koodal Pudur police have booked her for criminal breach of trust and cheating.     In another case, pawn broker Suresh Balan of South Avani Moola Street has been accused of cheating his friend K. Manikandan of 362 grams of gold jewellery. Police said Manikandan had pledged the jewellery to get a loan. When he repaid the loan, the Suresh Balan return the gold ornaments. When he questioned Suresh, he had reportedly threatened him with dire consequences. Thilagar Thidal police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cashier-booked-for-embezzlement/article32509957.ece
03 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Maoist Vivek booked for social media post||Madurai City police have booked Maoist J. Vivek on charges of posting messages on social media against democracy in the country and people with an intention to disrupt public peace. Tallakulam police said Vivek had posted themessages on his Facebook page. He has been booked under provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 and under Section 505 (1) (b) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maoist-vivek-booked-for-social-media-post/article32509962.ece
03 September 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||200 kg. of ganja seized||Police arrested three persons for smuggling about 200 kg. of ganja into the State during the late hours of Tuesday. According to police, the seizure was made near Cauvery bridge in Vellur from a truck. According to police, the accused were transporting the ganja from Andhra Pradesh to Dindigul district. Police also seized Rs. 2.04 lakhs from the accused. Police have arrested the truck owner Kumar, cleaner Palaiya and their accomplice Krishna Perumal. The seizure was made based on a tip-off from Organised Crime Investigation Unit of Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-kg-of-ganja-seized-from-truck/article32509677.ece
03 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘95% of population in Puducherry susceptible to virus’||About 95% of the population in Puducherry is susceptible to COVID-19, according to the three-member Central team which had a discussion with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday. The team from the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, said that though a serosurvey had not yet been carried out in Puducherry, from the data available, it is likely that 95% of the people are at risk, a note from Raj Nivas said. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, who led the NIE team, stated that though the initial response of the government of Puducherry was matching with the number of cases, it required augmentation after the unlocking of activities. More resources needed “After unlock, the response is required to be ramped up to meet the challenge, which may continue for a longer duration of time, say for one year. Therefore, the health infrastructure in terms of resources, human resources and support of agencies need to be augmented to trace and treat the positive cases, reduce fatalities and flatten the curve,” Dr. Kaur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/95-of-population-in-ut-is-susceptible-to-virus/article32509651.ece
03 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||19-year-old girl ends life||A 19-year-old Dalit girl of T. Kalabam near Karambakudi, who consumed poison on Saturday, died on Tuesday. Sources said the girl had applied for NEET. Alangudi police recorded her father’s statement that she suffered from chronic stomach pain. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-year-old-girl-ends-life/article32509972.ece
03 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for dishonouring national flag in FB post||A. Manikandan, 48, of Kamarajapuram was arrested by the police here on Wednesday for allegedly dishonouring the national flag in a Facebook post. Mr. Manikandan, who is district secretary of Tamizhar Kazhagam, also made adverse comments about Independence Day that could affect the sovereignty and unity of the country, disturb public peace, instigate others and encourage secessionism, police said. The accused, who runs a hotel in the town, was arrested by a police team and booked under various sections of IPC read with Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Amendment Act 2003 and Section 67 of Information Technology Act. He was later remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-dishonouring-national-flag-in-fb-post/article32509999.ece
03 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced to 9,000 cusecs from Wednesday afternoon. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 89.01 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 51,526 mcft and the inflow to the dam was 6,522 cusecs. The outflow from the dam to Cauvery river was reduced from 16,000 cusecs to 9,000 cusecs. The outflow through East-West canal was maintained at 800 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article32509678.ece
03 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers invited for butterfly counting||The Salem Nature Society is inviting volunteers for butterfly counting held as part of Big Butterfly Month here. According to the organisers, the enumeration exercise would take place between September 14 and 20. Interested persons can count butterflies in their area following all COVID-19 safety protocols and upload the data on portals such as iNaturalist, ifoundbutterflies and India Biodiversity Portal. For details, mail tobigbutterflymonth @gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-invited-for-butterfly-counting/article32509684.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||People living along Vayalur Road struggle with daily commute||Residents of scores of colonies off Vayalur Main Road continue to endure harrowing rides on the rain-battered and congested stretch even as the Highways Department awaits funds to redevelop it. Vayalur Road has emerged as an arterial route in the city after scores of residential colonies mushroomed on both sides over the past couple of decades. Despite being flood-prone, it is among the fastest growing residential belts as real estate developers have been quick to cash in on the locality’s proximity to the city. The two-lane road, once a village pathway, is literally bursting at its seams now, unable to cater to rapid urbanisation and manifold increase in volume of traffic. With encroachments shrinking the road further at many places, everyday commute to the city is proving to be a nightmarish experience for hundreds of thousands of residents. Chaotic traffic is witnessed on the road almost right through the day. The recent wet spells have only compounded the problem as water stagnates at various stretches. Local residents complain that accidents have become all too frequent. Several shops and some houses are alleged to have encroached upon public space in a few places. “There are lot of encroachments along the road. There is no pedestrian pathway and the existing open drains at some stretches are not properly covered,” says V. Sundararaju, a retired District Forest Officer and resident of Srinivasa Nagar South. Stressing the need for widening the road, he says a proposal appears to have been put in cold storage. The traffic is so heavy that people and vehicles find it difficult to cross the road. The route is also popular among farmers from Somarasamapettai, Vayalur and villages beyond for transporting vegetables and flowers to city markets. They ride at high speed on two-wheelers, posing a threat to other road users, Mr. Sundararaju adds. “Widening the road is an immediate necessity. It should be at least for five feet on either side and a road median should be built,” says P. Kadirvel, former president of Malliyampathu panchayat, situated off the road. The road has suffered heavy damage due to absence of proper drains and, in some places such as Uyyakondan Thirumalai and Shanmuga Nagar, the situation is bad. Tiruchi West MLA K.N.Nehru has promised to pursue the proposal to widen the project, he adds. There are plans to comprehensively redevelop the road by building drains on both sides and relaying the road end to end. The road width varies from nine to 14 metres. However, funds are awaited to execute the proposal, said a Highways Department official, when contacted. “We want to develop the road comprehensively as just black-topping will not be adequate.” Due to anxiety of overflooding, many property owners have raised the ground level of their houses by three to four feet, leading to water stagnation on the road. If relaid without proper drains on both sides, the road will be prone to frequent damage. “That is why we are planning to execute the work comprehensively,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-living-along-vayalur-road-struggle-with-daily-commute/article32510005.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||664 new positive cases, seven deaths reported in central region||The central districts on Wednesday recorded 664 fresh cases of COVID 19. Seven more people have succumbed to the virus in the region including three from Tiruvarur, two each from Tiruchi and Nagapattinam and one from Pudukottai, according to the Health Department bulletin. List of fatalities In Tiruvarur, a 64-year-old woman suffering from bilateral bronchiectasis, a 70-year-old man with no existing conditions and a 72-year-old man with comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension succumbed to the viral infection. A 62-year-old man who had been suffering from Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and a 52-year-old man with existing conditions including hypertension and diabetes died in Tiruchi. In Nagapattinam, two men aged 70 and 67 with comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension and a 75-year-old man from Pudukottai who suffered from Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and diabetes succumbed to the viral infection. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases on Wednesday with 147 new cases. Among them were staff nurse of the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, an armed reserve policeman, an assistant professor at a private university, a staff nurse of the Government Raja Mirasudhar Hospital, a revenue inspector, an assistant professor at the Department of Microbiology at the TMCH and a doctor at the Department of Orthopaedics at TMCH. Patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses, primary contacts and index cases identified at fever camps were also among those who tested positive. Tiruvarur recorded a spike in cases with 133 patients testing positive for the virus. Tiruchi recorded 120 fresh cases. Two containment zones were created in Srirangam zone of the Tiruchi City Corporation- Veereswaram Keezha Street and Sivaram Nagar, while Anna Nagar 5th cross road was also declared a containment zone and barricaded. Meanwhile, 76 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 52 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Pudukottai recorded 76 new cases, while Nagapattinam recorded 71 new cases. Of the 71 in Nagapattinam, were 40 local index cases with no travel or contact history of the infection, eight patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses, 11 primary contacts and one traveller from another state. A total of 64 patients tested positive for the viral infection in Karur, while 43 fresh cases were recorded in Ariyalur. Of the 43 in Ariyalur, 13 hailed from Ariyalur block, six from Thirumanur, three from Sendhurai, 13 from T. Palur, two from Andimadam and six from Jayankondam blocks. As many as 841 new throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts, residents in containment zones and people with symptoms of COVID-19, and sent for testing. Ten patients tested positive for the coronavirus in Perambalur, among which five were patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI), three contacts of patients with ILI, and two inter-district travellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/664-new-positive-cases-seven-deaths-reported-in-central-region/article32509998.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of garbage on open plot irks Duraisamypuram residents||Residents living in Duraisamypuram complain of an empty plot being used as a dumping yard by sanitary workers of the civic body. Authorities have paid no heed to the complaints raised; they alleged. While public dumping adds to the wretched look of the arterial road, residents in Doraisamypuram, a residential area in Keezhapudur, allege that sanitary workers who conduct door-to-door collection dump the waste collected in the empty plot, owned by the Tiruchi Corporation before segregating it and sending it for processing. “This are the main reason for the unhygienic condition in this road. Since the sanitary workers themselves do it, some among the public too has added to it amid the lockdown,” a shop-owner said. Complaints were raised by authorities by a school located opposite to the dumping site nearly two years ago, after which the civic body cleaned up the area, but soon, the problem crept back, said Sebastian Alexander, a resident. School children who are forced to travel along the road fall ill often, he said. “Senior citizens fear to walk on the road for the fear of falling ill. Children too, cover their noses with a handkerchief or their hands when they enter the school. We have written to Tiruchi y Corporation but in vain,” he said. With the recent rains, the sight is unbearable. Garbage clogs the drains and overflows onto the road while garbage, especially food waste and plastic, is dumped in the area. “Mosquitoes are a menace during the monsoons. They breed in the dirty water here. At a time when there are already infections spreading, the residents are afraid of malaria, chikungunya and other such diseases,” Mr. Alexander said. The residents suggest that the land, owned by Tiruchi Corporation could be developed into a public park. “While other parts of the city have parks and walking tracks, we do not have any in this area. They can also construct open gyms or even a micro composting yard so that waste could be dumped in a covered space,” he added. Officials of Tiruchi City Corporation denied the charges. “Our sanitary workers do not dump waste. The public might have dumped domestic waste in the area where the sanitary workers keep the pushcarts,” they maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-garbage-on-open-plot-irks-duraisamypuram-residents/article32510003.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||JEE Main: many skip second attempt||Blame it on the prolonged lockdown due to COVID pandemic, a large chunk of students have seemingly chosen not to appear for the second attempt of JEE Main exam, which is now in progress. The attendance of candidates hovers around just 50% at three examination centres in Tiruchi district. It takes enormous practice to perform well in JEE Main that determines eligibility for admission of candidates into National Institutes of Technology, Indian Institutes of Information Technology, and other institutions participating through Central Seat Allocation Board. JEE (Main) will also be an eligibility test for JEE (Advanced) to be in the reckoning for admission into IITs. The lockdown period had apparently diluted the confidence of many a student who would have already got through the first attempt to keep away from the second attempt, observe faculty of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) From 2019, NTA began conducting JEE Main twice a year, during January and April. Candidates can appear in both sessions, and the best of the two NTA (National Testing Agency) Scores will be considered. This year, the April examination had to be pushed to July and again to September due the pandemic. This element of uncertainty had unsettled the minds of many a student, a senior professor of NIT-T observed. “Since the best of the two NTA scores will be considered for preparation of merit list/ rankings, those who had performed fairly well in the first attempt would have chosen not to appear for the second attempt. This factor, probably, explains why there are many absentees for the ongoing second session of JEE Main exam,” said K. Sankaranarayanasamy, Director, National Institute of Technology - Puducherry. Nevertheless, the awareness level of students of availing the utility of Home State quota has been on the rise over the last two decades. About 15 years ago, NIT-T used to get students only from a handful of schools in Chennai for the entire 50 % Home Quota seats. With the progression of years, students of smaller cities and towns are also able to make their presence felt, he said. On their part, heads of a few leading CBSE schools that roped in coaching academies to train their students have not lost hope that there will be improvement in the number of students appearing for JEE Advanced. Only the top 2,50,000 candidates in JEE Main will be eligible to take up the JEE Advanced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jee-main-many-skip-second-attempt/article32510001.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||30 traders of Gandhi Market observe fast, detained by police||A group of traders of Gandhi Market on Wednesday were detained by police after they went on a fast in front of the market demanding a commitment from officials on the reopening it. The traders, some of them owing allegiance to Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam, resorted to the protest in the morning. As they refused to disperse, police took them into preventive custody. Revenue officials held talks with the traders, who were taken to a private marriage hall. The officials reportedly told the traders that steps would be taken to reopen the market subject to the lifting of the injunction granted by Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. The traders, numbering about 30, were released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-traders-of-gandhi-market-observe-fast-detained-by-police/article32510007.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prizes distributed||Winners of painting and oratorical competitions for students conducted by the city police during Independence Day celebrations were presented with prizes here on Wednesday. The city police had organised the competitions under four categories. The competitions were on topics such as ‘Children’s role in COVID-19 awareness,’ ‘Field workers in COVID prevention,’ and ‘Lockdown experiences of students.’ As many as 1,060 students, including some from abroad and other States, participated in the online competitions held between August 8 and 13. City Police Commissioner J. Loganathan distributed prizes to 24 winners of the competitions held in the presence of A. Pawan Kumar Reddy, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), R. Vedarathinam, Deputy Commissioner of Police, (Crime and Traffic) and other officials. Earlier, participants at the event observed two minutes silence as a mark of respect to former President Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday. An awareness programme on COVID-19 was also organised as part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prizes-distributed/article32510009.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC operates 30 more buses||Even as the State government has decided to resume inter-district bus services and allow train services in the State from September 7, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has weeded out flaws in its services resumed on Tuesday. As buses were operated from Tirunelveli up to the place closer to the district’s geographical border on Tuesday, commuters had to get down in these places and hire autorickshaw or other private vehicles to take the second bus operated from the neighbouring district’s headquarters to the destination closer to the border. Since these two destinations up to which the buses were operated are situated a few km apart, passengers were forced to hire autorickshaws. This time-consuming break in their journey irked passengers a lot. So, the TNSTC operated buses up to the district’s geographical borders from both directions on Wednesday. Though there was a break in the journey, passengers, on getting down from the first bus, could take the second bus to continue their onward travel within a few minutes from the point where they were dropped. “The extension of buses up to the right point where passengers travelling from both sides were dropped was helpful to the commuters to continue the travel without hardship,” opined N. Rajakumar, a service engineer. In addition to the 301 buses operated in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts on Tuesday, the TNSTC operated 30 more buses on Wednesday in the sectors where more number of passengers travelled with physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-operates-30-more-buses/article32509946.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Patient seeks Rs. 1 cr. as damages for ‘false’ discharge summary||A man has sought Rs. 1 crore compensation from the dean of the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for giving him a “false” discharge summary after he underwent treatment there for COVID-19. According to Sivasubramanian, 35, from Sindhupoondurai, Tirunelveli Junction, blood samples were collected and swabs lifted from him and his family on July 7, after his neighbour and house owner tested positive for the infection. After the urban primary health centre authorities informed him the next morning over phone that he had tested positive for COVID-19, he was admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital the same afternoon. “Though I did not have any COVID-19 symptoms, I was admitted to the ward meant for patients undergoing treatment for the infection, and was given tablets and other medicines for four days. When I was discharged from the hospital on July 12, the fourth day of my admission, I asked them questions to understand the reason behind my discharge before completion of the mandatory 14-day quarantine and treatment. They gave me the discharge summary while I was being sent out,” said Mr. Sivasubramanian. The discharge summary given by the hospital said Mr. Sivasubramanian was admitted on July 3 and was under treatment for fever that lasted for four days, and he was discharged on July 12 after he recovered from the viral infection. “The quarantine notice pasted in front of my house says I tested positive on July 8, but the discharge summary says that I was under treatment for COVID-19 from July 3. Though I was asymptomatic, the discharge summary says I was running high fever and had cough for 4 days, for which treatment was given. I was not even given a bed in the hospital, from where I was forcibly sent out,” he alleged. Seeking Rs. 1 crore as compensation for the alleged mental agony caused to him, Mr. Sivasubramanian sent a notice to TVMCH dean M. Ravichandran and other officials. Efforts to reach the hospital authorities for a response were futile.  The notice pasted in front of my house says I tested positive on July 8, but the discharge summary says I was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 since July 3 Sivasubramanian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-seeks-rs-1-cr-as-damages-for-false-discharge-summary/article32509639.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC issues notice after hospital charges in excess||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has issued notice to the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services following a report that a private hospital in Tirunelveli allegedly demanded Rs. 4 lakh for handing over the body of a COVID-19 patient to his family. A 48-year-old cable television operator was admitted to a private hospital in Tirunelveli Junction on August 22. The patient died on August 30. Reports of overcharging Though the patient’s family reportedly paid Rs. 7 lakh towards treatment, the hospital administration allegedly asked them to pay Rs. 4 lakh more. As the family could not pay the amount, the hospital administration allegedly refused to hand over the body of the patient. This prompted the relatives to hold a protest. The body was later handed over after Rs. 25,000 was paid. Following information about the incident, the SHRC issued notice to the Director of Medical and Rural Health, the Joint Director of Health Services, Tirunelveli, and the Tirunelveli District Collector. The officials have been directed by the commission to submit their reports on the incident within a period of two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-issues-notice-after-hospital-charges-in-excess/article32509645.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine COVID-19 patients die in Kanniyakumari||Kanniyakumari witnessed nine COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, marking the second highest number of fatalities in the State after Coimbatore, which recorded 19 deaths. With the new fatalities, Kanniyakumari’s death toll rose to 185. The district recorded 111 new cases to have an overall tally of 9,821, with 1,001 active cases. Twenty-three people were discharged from hospitals. Tirunelveli reported 110 fresh cases, which took the tally to 9,796, with 1,232 active cases. A total of 121 people were discharged from hospitals, and three people died taking the district’s toll to 178. Tenkasi, after registering 82 new cases and 276 discharges on Wednesday, has 742 active cases. The district’s tally went up to 5,547. With 57 new cases, Thoothukudi’s tally rose to 11,532. After 99 people were discharged and one person died, the district now has 841 active cases. Madurai recorded 123 fresh cases – all indigenous – which took its case count to 14,386. There were 201 discharges and two deaths in the district. The district, which has marked a toll of 360, has 806 active cases. Theni reported 96 new cases to have an overall tally of 12,827. A total of 173 people were discharged. Dindigul’s tally moved up to 6,802 with the addition of 133 cases. The district witnessed 104 discharges. Ramanathapuram registered 57 fresh cases, which took its case count to 4,815. Thirty-eight people were discharged. Sivaganga reported 25 new cases, with which its tally rose to 4,114. There were 17 discharges. Virudhunagar recorded 62 fresh cases to mark a tally of 12,842. After the discharge of 104 people from various hospitals, the number of active cases stands at 401. With one fatality registered on Tuesday, the district’s death toll went up to 191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-covid-19-patients-die-in-kanniyakumari/article32509961.ece
03 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||In memory of Othakomban||In memory of a deceased bull, a farmer has installed its life-sized statue on his private land near Vellakoil in Tiruppur district. P. Chellamuthu, who was born into a family of farmers, said that the Kangeyam bull was born in the cowshed at his residence in Pappampalayam in Mettupalayam village panchayat in Vellakoil Panchayat Union. Died of illness It died at the age of eight in 2018 after prolonged illness. “Ever since the death, I wanted to do something to honour its memory,” he said. The bull was nicknamed ‘ Othakomban ’ (one-horned) after one of the horns broke when it was young, Mr. Chellamuthu recalled. Installed at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh, the bull’s statue was unveiled on Monday with rituals held in the presence of residents from the village. The sculpting took nearly five months, Mr. Chellamuthu said, as the original photographs of the bull were used to ensure resemblance. The nearly five feet tall statue was placed on a pedestal. “It now gives me some satisfaction,” Mr. Chellamuthu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-memory-of-othakomban/article32509675.ece
03 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued along Amaravathi||The Public Works Department on Tuesday issued a flood warning to those living on the banks of River Amaravathi as the water level in Amaravathi Dam was expected to reach full capacity. As the water level was 87.01 feet with inflow of 705 cusecs on Tuesday morning, water will be released from the dam if the level reaches 88 feet or if the inflow rises to 2,000 cusecs, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-along-amaravathi/article32509688.ece
03 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||Tiruppur South police arrested a man on Wednesday on charges of murdering a person on Palladam Main Road near Old Bus Stand. Police said that Baskaran, 40, was murdered by Sakthivel, 52, who dropped a rock on the head of the deceased while he was sleeping on a pavement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article32509655.ece
03 September 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||School fees||Parents and students of private schools in Virudhunagar can complaint against school managements on fees-related issues through e-mail to ceovnr2020@gmail.com In a statement, the Chief Educational Officer, M.K.C. Subashini, said that they could lodge complaints against the schools that are forcing the parents to pay 100% fees against the Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-fees/article32509951.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||579 new cases, five deaths in Coimbatore||As many as 579 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 16,662. The district had 4,269 active cases as on Wednesday. The Health Department declared the death of five more COVID-19 patients in the district, raising the toll so far to 315. Two men aged 62 and 65 died of the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday. A 74-year-old woman and a 69-year-old man succumbed to COVID-19 at private hospitals on Tuesday. The Government Medical College and ESI Hospital reported the death of a 75-year-old patient on Tuesday. Salem district reported 403 positive cases. Health officials said that of these, 394 were indigenous, including 282 cases from Salem Corporation limits. Erode district saw 106 new cases, taking the tally to 3,359. A total of 145 persons were discharged on Wednesday, while 1,130 continue to be under treatment. One person died taking the toll in the district so far to 44. Tiruppur district reported three deaths and 87 cases, taking its overall tally to 2,904 cases. A 71-year-old man from the district, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Coimbatore, died on Tuesday. Two men, aged 60 and 55, died on Tuesday at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Out of the 2,904 cases in the district so far, 1,941 have recovered, 894 were active cases and 69 patients died. Fifty-eight patients were discharged on Wednesday from various hospitals. In Namakkal, 83 cases were reported. According to officials, 23 persons had returned from other districts. Fifty-four persons tested positive in Dharmapuri, taking the total number of cases to 1,309. Krishnagiri had 49 new cases, and district’s tally so far is 2,236. Fourteen new cases were reported in the Nilgiris. So far, 1,667 people have tested positive in the district and 1,339 had recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/579-new-cases-five-deaths-in-coimbatore/article32509657.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Amid lockdown, private school focuses on organic farming||Amid the uncertainty prevailing over reopening of schools, a private school in Coimbatore has been utilising its premises for organic farming since May with the support of its faculty members. Eight teachers and three non-teaching faculty members of St. John’s Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Press Colony has been involved in cultivating over 10 different types of crops including groundnut, sunflower, tomato, corn and pumpkin. The school principal. P. Baskar. said that the cultivation of groundnut and sunflower was being carried out in nearly 0.75 acres of the school ground, while the other crops were being cultivated in about 40 cents of land. The school started terrace farming in 2016 to educate the students, Mr. Baskar recalled. However, as the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown came into force, he consulted the school correspondent R.P. Aravinthan and the management on whether organic farming could be carried out on the school premises. “We started ploughing the ground in May,” he said. As the residences of 11 volunteers were close to the school, they were able to come to the school amid the lockdown, he said. After three months, the school has seen the yield of nearly 200 kg of cucumber and about 40 kg of oyster mushrooms, he said. “We have collected the native seeds required for organic farming,” Mr. Baskar said. A. Sakthivel, a Tamil teacher for Classes X, XI and XII, said that the teachers have been conducting online classes from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and engage in the farming activities in the afternoon. “We feel stressed after conducting online classes, so these farming activities help us to de-stress,” he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-lockdown-private-school-focuses-on-organic-farming/article32509667.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,012 buses to ply in Coimbatore dt.||The Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) is slated to operate 1,012 town and mofussil buses in the district from September 7 following the State government’s nod to operate inter-district buses on Wednesday. Officials said that only 401 buses were operated on Tuesday as the bus services resumed after COVID-19 lockdown. This was only around 30% of the total fleet of buses as inter-district buses were not allowed. However, all the buses will be operated from September 7 by adhering to the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the State government, officials said. An official announcement regarding the total number of buses operated under the division in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris districts will be made before September 7. Meanwhile, TNSTC Coimbatore Division reduced the intra-district bus operations across the four districts owing to poor patronage. While 800 buses were operated in total on Tuesday, only 598 buses were operated on Wednesday. Coimbatore district saw a reduction of 144 buses as only 257 buses were operated within the district. As the State government also approved the resuming of intra-State train services on Wednesday, sources at the Salem Division of Southern Railway said that the details of trains to be operated from Coimbatore are likely be announced by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1012-buses-to-ply-in-coimbatore-dt/article32509656.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Revenue dept. launches awareness campaign||Following the easing of COVID-19 restrictions in the Nilgiris, the revenue department has started a series of awareness campaigns aimed at ensuring people follow proper protocols established to prevent the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. On Wednesday, a team of revenue department officials, led by Udhagamandalam Sub-Collector Monikha Rana, and other revenue department officials, inspected the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market on Wednesday. D. Kuppuraj, Tahsildar (Udhagamandalam taluk), said that the team of revenue department officials had already been inspecting public spaces which are known to lead to large gatherings of people, such as the Udhagamandalam bus stand. Safety norms “We had also visited carrot-cleaning units around the town, and had clearly instructed the people working at the machines, as well as the owners, to wear masks while working and to ensure personal distancing,” said Mr. Kuppuraj. The team of revenue department officials also levied fines on people found not wearing masks. “Many traders inside the market were not wearing masks and we imposed a fine on them. It is important that people realize that we need to be even more vigilant from now onwards to prevent a spike in the number of COVID-19 infections,” the Tahsildar said. Teams of revenue department staff, including Village Administrative Officers are being sent to six revenue villages located within the taluk to ensure that protocols are followed. Officials said that to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the villages, including adivasi communities, it was important that people working in crowded places wear masks at all times. Repeat offenders would face steeper fines, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-dept-launches-awareness-campaign/article32509660.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inscriptions found in village||Several inscriptions have been found at a mutt in Kinnimangalam in Madurai, out of which one inscription has the earliest mention of the word ‘pallipadai’ (sepulchral shrine). A team led by Deputy Director of Archaeology R. Sivanandam visited the mutt on August 19. According to a report released by Mr. Sivanandam, a Tamil-Brahmi inscription was found on a broken pillar at the mutt. The inscription read: ‘Egan Aadhan Kottam.’ This inscription is said to belong between the 2nd century and 1st century BCE. Another vattezhuthu inscription, which is said to belong to the 7th or 8th century CE was also found. This was the inscription which had the word ‘pallipadai.’ This is the first time that the word ‘pallipadai‘ written in vattezhuthu has been discovered. This shows that this mutt is Tamil Nadu’s first ‘pallipadai’ and has been discovered near Madurai, said the report. Another inscription belonging to 18th century was also found. This also mentions ‘pallipadai.’ An inscription belonging to 1942 also has been found. Mr. Sivanandam said it could be interpreted that the pillar with the Tamil-Brahmi inscription, which had the word ‘kottam', could have been a memorial pillar. There is potential in this place to undertake more research, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inscriptions-found-in-village/article32509956.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors allege fraud in allocation of space||Street vendors, who reportedly had shops at Anandha market premises here protested in front of the Ammapet Corporation zonal office alleging irregularities in allocation of shops. They alleged that bribe is being demanded by the leasee for allocating shops. Members of Salem rural and urban roadside vegetable vendors and self-employed traders association protested in front of the office alleging that they are being charged heavily for allocation of space in the area by the leasee and huge amount is being demanded as deposit. The petitioners alleged that despite repeated petitions no action has been taken. The petitioners urged the authorities to regularise allocation of shops. Corporation officials said that the leasee has been advised to allocate shops only according to rates fixed by the Corporation and not to collect excess amount from vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-allege-fraud-in-allocation-of-space/article32509664.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain in Virudhunagar and Dindigul districts||Eastern parts of Virudhunagar district on Tuesday received good rainfall with Tiruchuli recording the highest of 68.20 mm. I was followed by Kovilankulam 47.20 mm and Sattur 47 mm. Rainfall recorded in other places (in mm) is: Aruppukottai 37, Vembakottai 27.30, Kariyapatti 20.20, Virudhunagar 11.80, Sivakasi 5, Watrap 3.60, Srivilliputtur 2 and Pilavakkal 1 mm. The average rainfall in the district was 22.53. Among the eight small dams in the district, only Periyar Pilavakkal dam and Sasthakoil dam had significant storage. The storage in the Periyar Pilavakkal dam was 49 mcft (maximum storage 192 mcft) and Sasthakoil 19.86 mcft (36.5 mcft).  Dindigul Widespread rain lashed the town and peripheries during the last 24 hours and many low lying areas were inundated on Wednesday. PWD officials said that Dindigul recorded 41.9 mm, Natham: 30, Kamakshipuram:111.9, Vedasandur: 51.2, Kodaikanal: 30, Palani: 32, Kodaikanal Boat Club: 34, Oddanchatram:25 and Nilakottai: 98 mm. In total, the district recorded 505 mm of rainfall, they added. Heavy rain, accompanied by gutsy wind, on Tuesday destroyed hundreds of acres where horticultural crops, drumsticks, sapotta, goose berry, among others, were raised. Farmers of Sikkupallampudur at V Pudukottai near Vedasandur, complained that many crops, which were ready for harvest in less than a month, were uprooted in the wind. Trees which were over 15 years old fell down. A few dwellings, motor room and store room’s roof, which were covered with asbestos, were thrown off, farmers said. In a petition submitted to the Collector M Vijayalakshmi, they urged her to visit the affected areas and take action for compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-in-virudhunagar-and-dindigul-districts/article32509950.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bed strength to be increased in Salem||Health officials here are planning to increase the bed strength to treat COVID-19 patients as more cases are being identified each day through increased testing. The district administration and health department have increased number of swab samples collected a day and intensive fever camps are being conducted in over 200 places a day in the district. According to officials, on Tuesday alone, 3,922 swab samples were collected and 335 COVID-19 positive cases were reported, all of them indigenous. As a precautionary measure, the health department is planning to increase the total bed strength in the district to 5,000 by setting up additional COVID Care Centres. The bed strength has already been increased in Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and three other government hospitals in Attur, Omalur and Mettur. J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services here said, “we are planning to increase the bed strength and more number of CCCs would be set up. At the moment, we are planning to set up one COVID Care Centre in each block and buildings are being identified.” Health officials said, 11,412 patients have contracted the disease and till Tuesday, 7,727 have recovered and 156 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bed-strength-to-be-increased-in-salem/article32509662.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ICU upgraded at Ooty GH||The 20-bedded Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in the Government Headquarters Hospital in Udhagamandalam was upgraded at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh with help from the Rotary Club of Nilgiris West and its partners. In a press release, the Club, headed by V. Balasubraniam, said that through its partnership with Rotary Clubs in the U.S., it had procured equipment worth Rs. 33.50 lakh as part of a Rotary International matching grant process. Dr. Raveendran, the Dean of the Government Medical College and Hospital, which is under construction along with hospital superintendent Dr. Hiriyan Ravikumar virtually received the equipment for the hospital in the presence of District Collector J. Innocent Divya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icu-upgraded-at-ooty-gh/article32509661.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Great expectations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/great-expectations/article32509953.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Good times are back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-times-are-back/article32509971.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All in the name||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/under-govt-control/article32509631.ece
03 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Saundatti Yallamma temple revenue reduced||COVID-19-induced lockdown has reduced revenue at Saundatti Yallamma temple in Belagavi district. The Yallamma temple, one of the biggest in the country in terms of devotees it attracts, has witnessed a significant fall in its revenue. The temple attracts over 40 lakh devotees earning anywhere between Rs. 18-Rs. 25 crore from donations and fees for various rituals in an average year. The temple gets crowded on the four auspicious full moon days in December, January, February and April, when nearly five lakh devotees walk up the hill from Saundatti town, to pray before the mother Goddess. But the temple has remained shut for devotees for over 160 days now. Yallamma temple was closed on March 22, the day of the Janata curfew. The closure continued from the next day due to the nation-wide lockdown. In these five-and-a-half months, devotees have been banned from visiting the temple. Daily puja and VIP darshans have continued, however. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has extended the temple lockdown period till the end of September. The temple attracts devotees from several States. The extension was necessary to reduce the chances of the spread of the epidemic, say officers. They hint that the temple is likely to open by the first week of October. The lockdown has hit the temple-centric economy, say local residents. “Petty traders who sell puja material, the Jogammas who perform for pilgrims and alms seekers have all been badly hit. Our earnings have been reduced. We are forced to dig into our savings to sustain our families,’’ said Mallanagouda Patil, one of the archaks of the temple. He hopes the temple opens its doors to devotees soon. The temple has around 150 permanent and temporary staff. They are being paid out of the temple’s fixed deposits and other savings, the officers say. Some infrastructure development initiated by the government has slowed down due to the lockdown. The State government approved development projects on the mountain and the water bodies in Saundatti town. This includes the construction of a Yatri Nivas guesthouse with 250 rooms, provision of clean water kiosks and individual and community toilet blocks, garbage collection and sewage treatment plants and construction and repair of roads and gutters. “While the work on the Yatri Nivas is being taken up with the temple’s funds, the government funded the other works. Most of the works have been completed except the Yatri Nivas. The guesthouse building is ready, while furnishing is pending. It will be completed in six months,’’ said temple committee executive officer Ravi Kotargasti. He said that the temple’s annual revenue could come back to normal before next April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saundatti-yallamma-temple-revenue-reduced/article32509779.ece
03 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Nine-man gang held on murder, dacoity charge||Belagavi district police have arrested a gang of persons on the charge of committing murder, dacoity and other crimes in Gokak. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi told journalists in Gokak on Wednesday that the nine-member gang was looting people, attacking families in isolated houses and was involved in other heinous crimes. It called itself the “Tiger Gang” and was intimidating traders and land owners. The police seized Rs. 30 lakh in cash, a gun, 20 bullets, swords, knives and other weapons from the gang. Vehicles, mobile phones, SIM cards and other material such as voter identity cards and bond papers were also seized. The accused, Gangadhar Santram Sindhe, Vinayak Basavaraj Hadaginal, Vithal Pawar, Vinod Hosmani, Kiran Doddannanavar, Ravi Choonannanavar, Kedari Jadhav, Sunil Murkibavi and Santosh Chigadolli, have been produced before court.  The police seized Rs. 30 lakh in cash, a gun, 20 bullets, swords, knives and other weapons from the gang||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-man-gang-held-on-murder-dacoity-charge/article32509756.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Make hay while the sun shines as solar rooftop mapping tool goes live||After a series of delays, the ambitious project — touted to be the first of its kind in India — to assess Bengaluru’s rooftop potential to harness solar energy finally took off on Wednesday. CREST — CSTEP’s Rooftop Evaluation of Solar Tool (CREST) was launched virtually, enabling consumers to assess their rooftop’s potential to generate solar energy for their own consumption, as well as to supply additional power generated to the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) grid. G. Sheela, General Manager, Demand Side Management, Bescom, said though the target set by Karnataka Solar Policy is to achieve 2,400 MW by 2022, with Bescom’s target being 1,200 MW, only 140 MW has been commissioned so far through 2,200 installations. Saptak Ghosh, Research Scientist, CSTEP, said the project has covered 1,076 sq km and estimated that 2.8 GW is the actual realisable potential in Bengaluru. Mahendra Jain, Additional Chief Secretary, Energy Department, Karnataka, said the State is already a leader in renewable energy with 63% of it coming from renewable sources, including solar and hydel. “The world’s largest solar park is located in Pavagada, which is fully functional. Although we have achieved such stupendous success, in the matter of solar rooftop we have been below the mark. Once generation and consumption are localised, there is greater scope for storage and it becomes viable at a solar rooftop level,” he said. He admitted that Bengaluru was still “woefully behind target” in solar rooftop generation. “Why we have not achieved our potential despite solar radiation scope is because of inhibitions about high cost, lack of information whether the particular rooftop is viable, and also because people are at a loss as to who to approach,” he said. The LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging)-based project, he said, maps the minutest detail of the rooftop, including how much it would cost. “It will help us in accelerating the rooftop plan. We will be able to resolve a lot of problems in power supply. Renewable has problems of unpredictability, and evacuation of solar power in a large plant becomes problematic. It took a long time in Pavagada too and was capital intensive. In a rooftop, generation and consumption are localised, and so it is advantageous. If you pair renewable and storage, the day is not far when we can do away with thermal energy completely. If any State can dream of becoming a thermal-free State, it has to be Karnataka,” he said. Bescom Managing Director M.B. Rajesh Gowda said with rooftop generation picking up, it will be a win-win situation for Bescom and consumers, as transmission costs will also come down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-hay-while-the-sun-shines-as-solar-rooftop-mapping-tool-goes-live/article32509570.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 60% of Karnataka’s COVID-19 caseload was reported in August||Karnataka is one among the seven States that has contributed 70% of the total COVID-19 cases in the country. The State’s caseload which is 11.27% of the country’s tally is only behind Maharashtra that has contributed 21% and Andhra Pradesh at 13.5%. In fact, over 60% (2,18,308) of the total 3,61,341 cases and nearly 57% (3,388) of the total 5,950 fatalities in the State have been reported in August alone. On a positive note, 1,99,679 patients have recovered and were discharged in August. From 101 cases in March, the State witnessed a four-fold rise in April and subsequently a six-fold increase in May. From May to June there was a five-fold rise and then an eight-fold increase from June to July when the number of cases crossed one lakh and touched 1,08,873. As many as 2,068 deaths were reported this month. Since then, the numbers more than doubled and touched 2,18,308 in August while fatalities rose to 3,388. Steady rise since June The number of positive cases in the State have been rising steadily since the beginning of June and 80% of the total 10,118 positive cases reported as on June 24 were from June alone. The State recorded the first 1,000 cases on May 15, which is two months and six days after the first case was detected on March 9. Thereafter, the cases doubled to 2,000 on May 24. The cases crossed the 10,000 mark on June 24. After May 24, the doubling rate reduced to eight days and subsequently to an average of three days. The number of days taken to double in Karnataka now stands at 22, which is lesser than the national average of 28 days. Karnataka is now the fourth State in the country to cross 3.5 lakh cases. In terms of Case Fatality Rate (CFR), the State is in the 9th position. While the State’s average CFR is 1.6%, the recovery rate is 70%. Bengaluru highest Bengaluru Urban that has been recording the highest number of cases since June is driving the pandemic in Karnataka. With an average of 2,500 cases a day in the last two months, the State capital now has 1,35,512 cases. This is 37.5% of the total caseload in the State. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, attributed the increasing caseload to aggressive and targeted testing across the State. “Our caseload is high because testing has been ramped up almost four times compared to June-July. All hidden cases and asymptomatic cases are getting detected,” he said. “Many States in the north are not conducting enough tests because of which their case load is low. It gives an impression that those States have a better control of the pandemic but it is not so,” he added.  Many States in the north are not conducting enough tests because of which their caseload is low. It gives an impression that those States have a better control of the pandemic but it is not so.  C.N. Manjunath nodal officer for labs and testing, COVID-19 task force   Month-wise number of cases and deaths  March: 101 cases, 3 deaths  April: 464 cases, 18 deaths  May: 2,656 cases, 30 deaths  June: 12,021 cases, 195 deaths  July: 1,08,873 cases, 2,068 deaths  August: 2,18,308 cases, 3,388 deaths||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-60-of-karnatakas-covid-19-caseload-was-reported-in-august/article32509582.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes in labour laws push lakhs of workers out of protective provisions||Amendments made to crucial labour laws, through an Ordinance, has put many workers out of the purview of several protective legal provisions in Karnataka. Following the changes, about 10% of factories and 18% of organised workforce in the State will be out of the purview of some provision of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. About 30% of the factories registered under the Factories Act, 1948, would be out of the purview of the Act, reveal figures by the Department of Factories and Boilers. With changes to Chapter V(B) of the Industrial Disputes Act, which mandates government approval for crucial decisions such as lay-off, retrenchment and closure, about 10% of the registered factories in Karnataka where 17.7% of the State’s total workforce in organised sector exist will be out of the purview of crucial provisions. In absolute numbers, about 1,639 factories employing about 3 lakh workers will no longer be under Chapter V(B). The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which received the Governor’s assent on July 31, has brought far reaching amendment to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Factories Act, 1948, and the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, to provide “ease of doing business”. While under the earlier provisions, factories employing more than 100 workers had to seek permission for lay-off, retrenchment and closure from the government, the changes to Chapter V(B) of Industrial Disputes Act through the Ordinance has increased the threshold limit to 300. “Though workers continue to get legal protection in disputes, conciliation and powers to appeal among others under the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter V(B) is very crucial,” said M. Satyananda, AITUC secretary, Bengaluru. Registered factories Incidentally, Karnataka has 16,927 registered factories providing employment to 16.73 lakh workers, according to data with the government. Of the total, there are 14,318 factories employing less than 100 workers, which in the past too was out of Chapter V(B). This category employs 4.86 lakh workers. Meanwhile, the changes brought to the factories Act, which lets off the hook factories with power supply employing less than 20 workers, will mean about 5,139 factories of the 16,927 factories or about 30.35% of the total factories will not come under the purview of the Act. This would mean that these employees’ service conditions such as hours of work, overtime payment, annual leave with wages, and important safety measures under the provisions of the Act will no longer be applicable. “There will not be inspection or need for license. Industrial accidents will be dealt with by the police and not the Factories Department like before . To enforce leave, overtime and weekly off can be a problem,” a senior official in the Department of Factories and Boilers said. However, a Labour Department official said that while these factories will be out of the purview of the Factories Department, they will come under the Shops and Establishments Act. “They will come under this Act for the purpose of monitoring. No other alternative is being considered at the moment,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-in-labour-laws-push-lakhs-of-workers-out-of-protective-provisions/article32509593.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court notice to State govt. on Pachhanadi landfill ncident||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government and Mangalore City Corporation in a public interest litigation petition seeking a declaration of the 2019 incident in which solid waste slipped at the Pachhanadi waste dumping yard in Mangaluru as a disaster under the Disaster Management Act and also payment of compensation to victims. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order in a petition filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. The petitioner has also sought a direction to the government and the corporation to treat, manage and dispose of solid waste that slipped and got disbursed to Pachhanadi and neighbouring villages to control further damage to environment, agricultural land and also residents. As the petitioner sought a direction to the State to implement the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and the SWM Model Bylaw 2019, the Bench, while citing the failure of even the BBMP to enforce these laws, orally asked the government to give the name of at least one local body authority that has implemented the laws concerned in the State. It was also pointed out in the petition that garbage in the Pachhanadi landfill slipped due to the flow of storm water following heavy rain in August 2019 as the authorities had not taken necessary precautions.  About 50 families have lost their houses, belongings, agricultural land as solid waste is still lying on their property without being removed and 400 tonnes of solid waste is being dumped in the yard daily in violation of environmental and Solid Waste Management Rules, the petitioner has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-notice-to-state-govt-on-pachhanadi-landfill-ncident/article32509777.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||32% increase in mortality rate in Bengaluru: Patil||Former Minister and senior Congress MLA H.K. Patil has expressed shock over an increase in the overall number of deaths in Bengaluru and said the city reported 49,135 deaths during January-July 2020 against 37,001 during the same period in 2019, an increase of 32% in the mortality rate. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Mr. Patil said 12,134 more people died in the city in the first seven months of 2020 compared to the same period last year. Questioning the State government’s data on COVID-19 deaths, he said 1,886 people died owing to coronavirus, according to government data, during March-August. Then more than 47,000 people died owing to non-COVID-19 related causes. “Why is the government not revealing information related to these deaths? Is the government hiding the data by showing fewer deaths due to COVID-19,” he asked. Mr. Patil is also the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of the Legislature. No death records maintained Since January, the government has not kept records of deaths of the people in the city and no medical certification of cause of death has been done. Hence, no scientific reason was given for the increased deaths. If COVID-19 deaths are only 1,886, how did 10,248 more people die this year compared to last year, he asked, and sought an explanation from the government for the increase in the number of deaths in the city. About 32% increase in the deaths in Bengaluru alone was a matter of serious concern. There was data stating that 8.5% people died owing to breathing problems in the State, Mr. Patil claimed. While the country’s average mortality rate was 42 per million people, the figure was 83 per million in Karnataka. The Congress leader urged the government to conduct a study on the death of the number of people in the State. Appeal to CM Terming the increase in the number of deaths as “shocking”, the former Minister appealed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to take correct steps to control the high mortality rates after consultation with opposition parties, experts, and doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32-increase-in-mortality-rate-in-bengaluru-patil/article32509580.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro operations only on Purple Line from Sept. 7||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) is adopting a cautious approach towards resuming metro services and will run only the Purple Line (Mysuru Road to Baiyappanahalli) on September 7 for three hours in the morning and three in the evening. Services on Green Line between Yelachenahalli and Nagasandra are slated to resume on September 9. Timings For the first few days, trains will run from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. From September 11, they will run from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. “Peak hour train frequency will be every five minutes and for non-peak hour frequency, it will be 10 minutes. A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be released on Thursday,” said Ajay Seth, Managing Director, BMRCL. According to sources, a maximum of 400 passengers will be allowed to travel in the train. If it increases, the train may skip stations. To manage and maintain social distancing on platforms, halts will be between 60-70 seconds. “Standing inside the train will be allowed only in the marked area and alternate seats will have to be kept vacant. There will be no tokens available at stations. Only those with smart cards will be permitted. Commuters can recharge them online,” said another official. Other general guidelines such as maintaining safe distance and use of masks will be strictly enforced. “Though Arogya Setu app will not be made mandatory, commuters are encouraged to use it, keeping in mind the safety of passengers,” the official said. BMRCL has requested passengers to carry minimum luggage and not carry metallic objects to minimise contact during frisking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-operations-only-on-purple-line-from-sept-7/article32509565.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP constitutes committee for death audit||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has constituted a team to undertake an audit of all fatalities due to COVID-19 in various hospitals in the city. Announcing this, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters here on Wednesday that the civic body had identified 19 hospitals where the case fatality rate was high. The average case fatality rate in the city was 1.45% in August. Mr. Prasad said the civic body had increased the number of tests in the city and the positivity rate was roughly around 10%. The number of tests had increased to more than 30,000 a day. “With more tests being conducted, more cases are being detected. But this is not something to be alarmed about. If we isolate those who test positive, the chain is broken and the spread can be controlled,” he said and added that compared to June and July, the mortality rate had come down to 1.52% in August. Some CCCs to be closed With many COVID-19 patients opting for home isolation, the Commissioner said more than 50% of beds in the COVID Care Centres (CCCs) were vacant. At the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) CCC, only 1,500 of the 6,500 beds were opened up for patients, apart from 1,500 set aside for doctors and nurses. “The remaining beds will be shifted to hospitals and hostels. Things that were being rented will be returned. We will take a call to decide on closing down one or two CCC facilities. We may open them again, if required in future,” he said.  In containment zones Mr. Prasad said that barricading and putting up COVID-19 poster on the door of the positive patient’s home had led to them being stigmatised. “We have stopped barricading 100 m radius around the houses. Barricading is done only if there are more than 3 cases. There are just 1,018 such cases in the city,” he explained. He also said that during a discussion with the Chief Secretary and officials of the Health Department, it was decided to not put up posters as well. “The Health Department will be issuing a circular in this regard soon,” he said and added that the civic body would just inform the neighbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-constitutes-committee-for-death-audit/article32509576.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: Were details of arrested displayed, asks HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to inform whether particulars of the persons arrested in connection with the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli localities have been displayed on the noticeboard outside the control room as per Section 41C of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC). A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Junaid Ahmed, a city-based advocate. The petitioner had sought direction to the government and the city police to display on the noticeboard outside the control room the names and addresses of the arrested, and the names and designations of the police officers who made the arrests as per Section 41(C)(2) of the Cr.PC. Section 41C of the Cr.PC prescribes that the government should establish a police control room in every district and at the State level, and display names and addresses of arrested persons along with name and designation of police officer who have made the arrests. Also, this provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure mandates the government that the control room at the police headquarters at the State level should collect from time to time, the details about the arrested persons, nature of the offence with which they are charged, and maintain a database for the information of the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-violence-were-details-of-arrested-displayed-asks-hc/article32509589.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||63-year-old woman with dementia reunited with family after 17 months||A 63-year-old woman with dementia was reunited with her children on Wednesday after being reported missing for more than 17 months. Although her children, who are based in Hubballi, were frantically searching for her, they were unable to trace her. Thanks to the efforts of the Bengaluru city police and the Elders’ Helpline, Girijamma, her son and daughter were finally reunited in a tearful, but joyous occasion. Ms. Girijamma had been living in Sandhya Sureksha, a home for destitute elderly women and one of the centres that is a project of the Nightingale Medical Trust, after she was spotted sitting next to a pile of garbage on R.V. Road in Bengaluru on March 19 last year. Disoriented and ill According to the staff, she was disoriented and unable to provide details about her family. They said she was ill during the time of admission and had several health complications. “She would often get violent and physically attack other residents,” said a staff member. As her frequent aggressive behaviour and disorientation continued, doctors conducted a psychiatric evaluation and diagnosed her with dementia. With therapy and medication, she gradually improved over eight months. Strong bond Radha S. Murthy, managing trustee, Nightingales Medical Trust, said as her mental and physical health improved, she started attending activity sessions, reading newspapers, and interacting with residents. “She developed a strong bond with other residents of the home and would assist in serving meals, making their beds and even changing their diaper,” said Dr. Murthy. Tracing contacts  Recently, a psychiatrist asked her questions about her family, which she was able to answer clearly. The information was put on to the Elders’ Helpline, which helped trace her family within a week. Sunil Basavaraj, who works as a computer trainer in a private company in Hubballi, wept when he met his mother again. “My mother went missing when we brought her to a State-run hospital in Bengaluru for treatment. The death of our father took a toll on her mental health, but nobody was able to diagnose her condition. We used all our contacts to find her,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/63-year-old-woman-with-dementia-reunited-with-family-after-17-months/article32509595.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC to monitor progress of Rs. 1,800 crore hi-tech ambulance service procurement plan||Declining to grant the government five months to complete the process of procuring hi-tech ambulance services across the State, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday said it would monitor the progress as better ambulance services was the need of the hour. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while hearing a PIL petition filed by Bharat Punarothana Trust, Bengaluru. Urgency clause However, the HC said it could not compel the government, as pleaded by the petitioner, to invoke urgency clause in the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act, 1999, by granting exemption from inviting tenders for procuring new ambulance services.  Rs. 1,800 crore The government had said that it was not in favour of granting exemption from inviting tenders as the estimated amount for the hi-tech services would be around Rs. 1,800 crore for a period of seven years, and it would like to allow participation of multiple service providers in a bid to adopt latest technology.  Pointing out that the proposal to procure hi-tech ambulance services would be soon placed before the State Cabinet shortly, the government had told the HC that it required at least five months to complete the tender process. The government also told the court that information on a simple facility introduced for ambulance operators to contact police control room on dedicated phone numbers had been communicated to the operators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-to-monitor-progress-of-rs-1800-crore-hi-tech-ambulance-service-procurement-plan/article32509578.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘If We Do Not Rise’ campaign to mark death anniversary of Gauri Lankesh||Over 45 women’s groups and human and LGBTQ rights organisations in the State have come together to mark the third anniversary of the assassination of editor and activist Gauri Lankesh on September 5. They will be part of a national campaign,‘If We Do Not Rise’, — a collective of around 500 women’s organisations from across the country — which is planning an online get-together to protect constitutional values on the same day. In a statement to the media, If We Do Not Rise (Karnataka Chapter) said: “Voices of dissent have been systematically silenced and labelled anti-national. Activists, journalists and academics engaged in various movements are languishing in jails, without access to the legal provision of bail. The Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (2019) has been amended and used to implicate, intimidate dissenters and arrest them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/if-we-do-not-rise-campaign-to-mark-death-anniversary-of-gauri-lankesh/article32509575.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest single-day jump: State sees over 9,000 cases for third time||Karnataka on Wednesday reported the highest single-day increase of 9,860 new COVID-19 cases, taking its overall tally to 3,61,341. With 113 new deaths, the toll touched 5,950. This is apart from 19 non-COVID deaths. This is the third time in the last week that the State reported over 9,000 cases. On August 27 as many 9,386 cases were reported, the highest ever on a single day. After that, 9,058 cases were reported on Tuesday (September 1) followed by 9,860 on Wednesday, the second consecutive day.  The number of discharges increased marginally on Wednesday with 6,287 persons walking out of hospitals. With this, the total number of recoveries rose to 2,60,913. Of the 94,459 active cases, 751 are being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban also saw its biggest single-day increase with 3,420 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,35,512, This includes 93,563 discharges. With 32 new deaths, the death toll in Bengaluru Urban touched 2,037. Total tests cross 30 lakh With 73,317 tests including 38,735 rapid antigen tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the total number of tests in the State touched 30,52,794. This includes 21,21,117 RT-PCR tests. On Tuesday, for the first time, the number of tests in the State had crossed 80,000. As many as 83,670 tests including 51,987 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Tuesday. Apart from 3,420 in Bengaluru Urban, Wednesday’s caseload included 667 in Mysuru, 470 in Belagavi, 433 in Ballari, 414 in Dakshina Kannada, 357 in Tumakuru, 342 in Shivamogga, 327 in Dharwad, 321 in Davangere, 290 in Hassan, 282 in Koppal and 245 in Mandya. The other districts reported less than 200 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/highest-single-day-jump-state-sees-over-9000-cases-for-third-time/article32509584.ece
03 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP taunts Congress over its ‘discomfiture’||The BJP on Wednesday taunted the Congress over its “discomfiture” over former President the late Pranab Mukherjee’s participation in an RSS event. “The BJP is amused by the Congress’ discomfiture over Late Pranab Mukherjee’s decision to participate in the RSS event some time ago,” said BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik in a release. In the condolence meeting held on Tuesday, Congress leaders Mallikarjuna Kharge and Siddaramaiah could not conceal their dismay over Mr. Mukherjee’s address at the Third Year Officers Training Camp at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur, he said. “A true nationalist and patriot, Mr. Mukherjee realised that the ideology and methodology of the RSS were the right means to ensure national renaissance,” Mr. Karnik claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-taunts-congress-over-its-discomfiture/article32509590.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No revision in student bus pass fare: Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Wednesday clarified that the there would be no change in the student bus pass fares and that there would also be no change in criteria to obtain the passes. He made this statement following rumours that students would have to pay more for bus passes. “There is no proposal to increase student bus pass fares and there there will be no change in the criteria for obtaining them,” Mr. Savadi said. To facilitate easy commute for students appearing for the semester examinations of UG, PG, and professional courses, the Karnataka Road Transport Corporation has announced free travel for students to exam centres in city, suburban, ordinary and express buses. Students need to produce the student bus pass of the academic year 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-revision-in-student-bus-pass-fare-savadi/article32509598.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PG students of BCU seek exam postponement||Final year postgraduate students, mainly from science stream, met Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru Central University (BCU) on Wednesday to request that the examinations scheduled to begin on September 10 be postponed. While some said that their colleges were yet to complete assigned portions, others sought more time to prepare. A student of a private college affiliated to BCU said that they did not have access to academic resources during lockdown and needed more time to complete lab records and projects. “It was announced in the last week of August that the exams would be held from September 10. It is practically impossible for us to finish our work,” the student said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pg-students-of-bcu-seek-exam-postponement/article32509563.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three held for trying to sell diamonds worth Rs. 40L without valid documents||The police on Tuesday night arrested three men for attempting to sell diamonds without required documents. “We recovered 80 pieces of natural diamonds valued at Rs. 40 lakh,” said a police officer. The accused — Ramkumar, 54, Praveen Kumar, 51, and Sudhir, 28, — hail from Belthangady in Dakshina Kannada. The beat police on duty saw the three men moving suspiciously in city market area on Tuesday night and detained them for questioning. “When they frisked them, they recovered a red purse containing 80 diamonds. It’s the kind of purse women carry. We summoned a gemologist who examined the stones and confirmed that they were diamonds,” the police officer added. The accused claimed that the diamonds belonged to them and they had come to Bengaluru to sell them to a jeweller. However, according to the police, they were unable to provide receipts or documents to substantiate their claim. The police have taken the trio into custody to ascertain the source of the diamonds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-for-trying-to-sell-diamonds-worth-rs-40l-without-valid-documents/article32509573.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IPS officer in ICU after gun misfires||Senior police officer and Chairman of the Karnataka State Police Housing Corporation R.P. Sharma sustained bullet injuries at his residence in Kothanur on Wednesday, when his service weapon misfired while he was cleaning it. The incident occurred around 4.30 p.m. “He sustained injuries on his chest and neck. He is in the ICU,” said a police official. The IPS officer is expected to retire by the end of the year. Senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, visited the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ips-officer-in-icu-after-gun-misfires/article32509572.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ragini Dwivedi summoned||The CCB’s anti-narcotics wing probing drug related cases issued a notice to actress Ragini Dwivedi to appear before them on Thursday for questioning. Her name cropped up during the course of their investigation on the involvement of actors and singers in the Kannada film industry. The CCB on Wednesday questioned a few people who are said to be associates of Ms. Dwivedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ragini-dwivedi-summoned/article32509566.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disparity alleged in health kit distribution||Several Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) councillors have alleged that health kits containing essential medicine, pulse oximeters, thermometers, sanitisers, etc. for citizens who have tested COVID-19 positive but have chosen to isolate themselves at home - have not been distributed in their wards. Former Mayor and Madiwala councillor B.N. Manjunath Reddy alleged that barely 10% of the wards have received these kits, and that the BBMP, without prior intimation, had given away Rs. 25 lakh set aside for COVID-19 to the Chief Minister’s Fund. “We have now earmarked Rs. 25 lakh from our ward grants. In my case, the file is yet to be approved,” he said. M. Shivaraju, Shankar Math councillor, also made similar allegations. He claimed that oximeters that had been donated to the BBMP by philanthropic organisations had been distributed to its hospitals and primary health centres. “We have used the Disaster Management Fund allocation to distribute ration kits to the poor and needy in containment zones in our wards,” he said, and added that the funds were yet to be released to the contractors who had supplied these materials. BJP leader K.A. Muneendra Kumar said that he had procured oximeters using funds allocated under Disaster Management for his ward. They are being used by ASHA workers and volunteers for door-to-door surveys, and will be later distributed to PHCs. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said some wards had taken the initiative to distribute the kits after discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disparity-alleged-in-health-kit-distribution/article32509577.ece
03 September 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS decides to postpone MBBS exam||Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences has decided to postpone the MBBS examination scheduled to be held in September. A circular issued by the Registrar Evaluation of the varsity said that the examinations are rescheduled to October 13. It was originally supposed to be held on September 15. The circular also states that the fee notification and time table will be hosted on the website at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-decides-to-postpone-mbbs-exam/article32509600.ece
03 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tension in Hassan village over temple entry by Dalits||Tension prevailed at Tejur village near Hassan on Wednesday when a few members of the Dalit community entered a temple in the presence of policemen, putting an end to the decades-old restriction imposed on them. As a few youths from the Dalit colony stepped inside the temple, a section of people from the “upper” castes raised slogans against them for “breaking the tradition” followed all these years. Both the factions engaged in a heated argument over the issue even as officers of the taluk administration tried to resolve the differences. Later, representatives of Dalit organisations staged a protest in Hassan demanding that the district administration hold a peace meeting at the village to ensure harmony. In the village of over 500 families, around 100 families belonged to Scheduled Castes, while the rest are Vokkaligas. Members of the Ambedkar Yuvaka Sangha in the village attempted to put up a banner of a popular TV serial based on Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s life story near the site allotted for an Ambedkar Bhavan in the village in the first week of August. People from the “upper” castes had allegedly opposed it, forcing the Dalit youths to approach the Assistant Commissioner of Hassan. The youths had also alleged that Dalits of the village had not been allowed to enter Veeranjaneya Temple, a Muzrai temple, all these years. They demanded that the administration allow them to enter the temple and also allow them to put up the banner. The Hassan taluk administration scheduled the temple entry on Wednesday. When the officers reached the village, the “upper” castes said they would not oppose the entry of Dalits into the temple. However, they showed their anger through slogans when the Dalits entered the temple. Manjunath T.C., president of Ambedkar Yuvaka Sangh, alleged that the “upper” castes also broke a pipeline supplying water to the Dalit colony in the village. “All these years they did not allow us to enter the temple. They are not allowing us to put up a banner,” he said. Leader of Dalit Sangharsha Samiti H.K. Sandesh and others staged a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office demanding that the administration ensure the safety of Dalits in the village. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish told The Hindu that the Dalit families had sought entry into the temple in the village and it had been done on Wednesday. “The issue has been resolved. However, they wanted a peace meeting to be held. We are organising a meeting on Thursday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tension-in-hassan-village-over-temple-entry-by-dalits/article32509597.ece
03 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ganesha for all at Chitradurga bus depot||The employees of KSRTC working at Chitradurga depot celebrated Ganesh Chaturthi this year as a special occasion. They joined hands to build a Ganesha temple on the depot premises. All employees contributed a minimum of Rs. 1,000 for the temple, constructed at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh. Those who took the leadership in raising funds and monitoring the construction included both Hindus and Muslims. The corporation constructed a new depot, adjacent to the old one, three years ago. The new premises had no temples while there were temples of Ganesha and Anjaneya in the old place. “We sought the approval of the officers to go ahead with the construction. Initially, they were reluctant to allow the temple. Later they were convinced and allowed us,” said T. Ashok, a mechanic at the depot. Among the 450 employees attached to the depot, about 30 are Muslims. Raheem Sab, who worked as a driver with the corporation for 34 years, said a temple was required in the depot as most of the employees had the practice of offering prayers before taking out buses for the day. “We serve the public, and the safety of the passengers is paramount for us. It is good to have a temple on the premises,” he said. He took the leadership in completing the project. “I worship all gods and I have visited holy places revered by different religions. I am glad the temple was completed and inaugurated on the occasion of Ganesha festival this year,” he said. The employees installed the statue by arranging a homa on August 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganesha-for-all-at-chitradurga-bus-depot/article32509773.ece
03 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||290 more test positive||As many as 290 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 8,776. Four more people died taking the toll to 204. So far, 5,726 have recovered. As on Wednesday, 2,846 are undergoing treatment. Of these, 58 are in the ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/290-more-test-positive/article32509758.ece
03 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Focus is on tracing drugs supply chain and breaking it’||Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood has said that apart from getting punishment to those who are caught with narcotics, the focus was on tracing drugs supply chain and breaking it. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday after a marathon review meeting with the officials of the Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissionerate at a private hotel here, Mr. Sood said that drug abuse had been an issue and the police were filing cases on a regular basis and arresting those involved in it. “While arresting those in possession of drugs is one issue, the other is of tracing the supply chain and those running it. In Bengaluru, it had been noticed that the supply comes from Andhra Pradesh and Goa and also from other countries. Efforts are on to trace and break the supply chain,” he said. To a query, Mr. Sood said that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the City Crime Branch(CCB), Bengaluru, were working in close coordination in the investigation of the drugs network recently busted in Bengaluru. He said that the investigation was being carried out thoroughly and the names of those involved would be publicised as and when both the agencies completed their investigation. He clarified that it was not that there was no drug racket in tier 2 and tier 3 cities and on a regular basis, the police were taking action. On the Deverajeevanahalli riots, he said that it would be wrong for any officer to make comments on speculation and it would be wrong to make public any names before the charge-sheet is filed. Zero vacancy Admitting that the police force faced shortage of personnel, Mr. Sood said that steps were being taken to fill vacancies and reach zero vacancy level. 40 dead He said that considering the fact that the police force had lost 40 officers and personnel to the pandemic and there were still 1,500 active cases pertaining to the department (total 6,000 cases), the emphasis now was on strictly adhering to the Standard Operating Procedure. “Now, along with fighting COVID-19, we have to do policing as with the start of economic activities, criminals are bound to get active. We also discussed at length the measures to be taken in the coming days to fight crime more effectively,” he said. Dial 100 The Director-General and Inspector-General of Police said that steps were being taken to further strengthen the Dial 100 system through technology upgradation and other measures and in the coming days, one could see a more active Dial 100 in place. Harassment To a query, regarding complaints about harassment to women allegedly by police officials in Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissionerate, Mr. Sood said that he was not aware of it but definitely action would be taken if any such issue came to his notice. Replying to a query, Mr. Sood clarified that it would not be right to compare the functioning of CCB Bengaluru with CCBs in other cities. “However, the issue of further strengthening the CCBs in the other cities is also on the cards. I have been going around districts first to thank police personnel who have done a good job during the COVID-19-induced lockdown and are continuing to do the same post lockdown period. In the days to come, you will see more changes in policing,” the State police chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-is-on-tracing-drugs-supply-chain-and-breaking-it/article32509764.ece
03 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Simple adieu to Ganesh idols as 11-day festivities conclude in Hubballi||The 11-day festivities during this year’s Ganesh Festival turned out be a low-key affair on Tuesday night in Hubballi, with Ganesh Mandals carrying out the immersion of idols in a simple yet meaningful manner. Every year, the 11-day festivities that would end after colourful immersion processions by various Ganesh Mandals would attract thousands of people. The processions that would begin in the evening would culminate at designated idol immersion ponds in the city and most often, the celebrations would come to an end the next day morning. However, this year, due to restrictions imposed on celebrations because of COVID-19, many Ganesh Mandals were forced to bring down the height of the idols and also the size of Ganesh pandals and embellishments. The skits on mythological incidents, which used to be the main attraction during the Ganesh festival, were missing this year. However, many, especially women, felt that the celebrations were more meaningful this year as the high decibel sound systems were not allowed and the devotees chanted Ganapati Bappa Moraya in unison and the celebrations remained simple. However, the most disappointed were the revellers who used to dance all night to the beats of filmy numbers during the immersion processions. The fear of COVID-19 too made people stay back at home and restrict their movement to their respective localities. As a result, the landmark Kittur Channamma Circle in Hubballi, which used to be crowded during the processions, did not see many visitors this time. And, even the police had a respite as most of the Ganesh Mandals completed the immersion rituals early on Tuesday night.  The otherwise boisterous celebrations were simple but meaningful this time  Many, especially women, felt happy this year as high decibel sound systems were not allowed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-adieu-to-ganesh-idols-as-11-day-festivities-conclude-in-hubballi/article32509766.ece
03 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mundargi Taluk Health Officer passes away||The Taluk Health Officer of Mundargi taluk in Gadag district Basavaraj K. passed away at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Dr. Basavaraj, who was serving as Taluk Health Officer for the last two years, was diagnosed of COVID-19 on August 9. A native of Huvina Hadagali in Ballari district, the 44-year-old doctor was getting treated at the private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mundargi-taluk-health-officer-passes-away/article32509767.ece
03 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||10,375 head of cattle, buffaloes infected by Lumpy Skin Disease in Kalaburagi||An endemic infectious Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD) has been found in 10,375 head of cattle and buffaloes in Kalaburagi district. Veterinary Officer (Technical) Yellappa S. Ingle has said that 5,250 cases have been reported from Chincholi taluk, followed by Sedam taluk with 1,720 cases, Jewargi taluk 1,135 cases, Kalaburagi 1,010 cases, Aland taluk 990 cases and Chitapur taluk with 270 cases. No such cases have been reported in Afzalpur taluk so far. Dr. Ingle said that the infection shows large variations in clinical presentation ranging from large skin nodules covering the entire body, fever, enlarged lymph nodes, nasal discharge and lachrymation, poor growth, reduced milk production, infertility, and at times, death in cattle. However, the district has not reported a single death due to the disease, he added. In India, the disease was initially reported in North India and then, it spread to the other parts of the country. The State reported such cases most recently. In the Kalyana Karnataka region, the disease appeared in cattle in parts of Yadgir district towards the end of July and it spread across Kalaburagi and Bidar districts in the second week of August. Officials of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences Department have been conducting training for all field veterinarians in 214 taluk and hobli veterinary hospitals and dispensaries in the district. These veterinarians would conduct awareness programmes to educate farmers to contain the disease. “At present, the district has 5,64,369 livestock (including cattle and buffaloes) of which less than 2 % have been affected. The department officials are engaged in creating awareness on animal health care and help combat the viral disease among cattle,” Dr. Ingle added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10375-head-of-cattle-buffaloes-infected-by-lumpy-skin-disease-in-kalaburagi/article32509762.ece
03 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||MLA takes exception to tender||Taking exception to the notification issued by Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM) allowing manufacturers of electricity poles from outside Kalyana Karnataka region to participate in its tender process, Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur has demanded that the government take steps to withdraw the notification and allow only manufacturers from the region to participate in the bid. In a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr. Telkur has demanded that the government take steps to ensure that GESCOM issued a fresh notification allowing only local manufacturers to participate in the bid. “With GESCOM opening its doors to all suppliers, small manufacturers from the region are not able to compete,” Mr. Telkur said  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-takes-exception-to-tender/article32509772.ece
03 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Dermatologist selected for Best Teacher Award||Senior Dermatologist P.M. Biradar will be conferred with the Best Teacher Award constituted by Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) on September 5, to commemorate the birth anniversary of S. Radhakrishnan. In a release, Vice-Chancellor of RGUHS S. Sacchidanand said that the university will honour Dr. Biradar in recognition of his services to teaching in the Faculty of Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dermatologist-selected-for-best-teacher-award/article32509760.ece
03 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Children create music videos with skills learnt during lockdown||After their daily online classes, Class 5 student Ayush Prem, Class 7 student Pavan Kumar Shetty and their friends -Samvith Shetty, Ajay, Vijay, Veekshan and Aman Rai from Akashbhavan in the city - get together at Ayush’s home to write poems, make music, film and upload videos on their YouTube channel ‘AVP creations’. These children are making good use of their skills of singing, writing, video editing and playing instruments like guitar and khanjira, that they have honed during the lockdown. So far, they have come out with 21 music videos on songs written by Kuvempu and Kayyara Kinnanha Rai. There are four videos on poems found in the Hindi text of Classes 8, 9 and 10. Not just music, they have also made short videos on the craft, bird-watching and drawing activities held in their locality. This interest in music was rekindled by government school teachers Premnath Marne and Aravind Kudla. Mr. Marne is the Hindi teacher at Government Secondary School in Chelairu, on the outskirts of Mangaluru, while Mr. Kudla is the headmaster of Government Higher Primary School in Moodambial near Vitla. Advocate Sukesh Kumar has taught the children filming, while Adarsh, another resident, has trained them in the basics of guitar. It all started with Mr. Marne’s two children joining 10 others in the neighbourhood coming together to play badminton in the evening when the lockdown began in March. “Slowly I started organising group activities like story-telling, writing poems, acting, drawing, crafts and bird-watching with them. Once a week we had singing sessions where the children learnt basics of guitar and kanjira,” said Mr. Marne, a Carnatic singer with an interest in theatre. “Activity-based teaching skills that we learnt during our teacher-training days under educationalist Gopadkar have been useful in the sessions in our neighborhood,” said Mr. Kudla, who loves bird watching and painting. “The children voluntarily get involved in these activities and learning has become fun for them,” Mr. Kudla added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-create-music-videos-with-skills-learnt-during-lockdown/article32509776.ece
03 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Work to remove silt in Gujjarakere to be completed in two weeks||Work to remove silt from Gujjarakere, a large water body spread over three acres at Jeppu here, taken up under the Smart City Mission, will be completed in the next two weeks, according to Managing Director of Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) Mohammed Nazir. The work is part of a Rs. 4-crore project to rejuvenate the water body taken up by MSCL. Mr. Nazir said silt from the water body is being removed at a depth of about 1.5 m. The contractor, Yojaka India Private Limited, is following the dredging process adopted to lift silt accumulated at the Thumbe vented dam built across the Netravathi, recently. Other works related to rejuvenation will commence after dredging, he said. MSCL has planned to construct a “kund” in the lake. It will create facilities such as a walking track around the lake, a children’s play area and a public toilet. An open gym, which is similar to the one in Kadri Park, will also come up. Railings will be placed around the lake, and the surroundings will be beautified with landscaping, he said. MSCL took up the rejuvenation project after the Mangaluru City Corporation plugged underground sewage seepage into the lake about a year ago. The corporation has replaced the old problematic sewage network in the area. The ongoing rejuvenation works have gladdened the Gujjarakere Theertha Samrakshana Samithi that has been fighting for last decade to save and rejuvenate the lake. “We are happy to see a marked change in the condition of the lake, as clean water is accumulating there. Good to see positive result of the ongoing rejuvenation work,” said samiti secretary Nemu Kottari. The State government had spent Rs. 5 crore earlier for development of the lake that covered dredging, building an embankment and retaining walls and laying a new sewer network in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-to-remove-silt-in-gujjarakere-to-be-completed-in-two-weeks/article32509769.ece
03 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Identities of people on the coastline being ascertained’||Additional Director-General of Police (Internal Security) Bhaskar Rao has said that the Coastal Security Police (CSP) was ascertaining the identities of people living on the coastline in the interest of national security. Speaking to reporters during his visit to Malpe in Udupi district, Mr. Rao said that CSP personnel in nine coastal police stations along the over 320-km coastline in the State were identifying people to establish whether there were any unknown people among them working in the coastline. “Initially, it was people from North Karnataka and then, those who came from North India who are working here. We have to see whether there were foreigners too,” he said. Stating that being physically, mentally and emotionally fit was a sine qua non for police personnel, Mr. Rao noted that the focus was on recruiting people conversant with the sea for the CSP. Regular police were trained to operate on the land; but CSP personnel need to be effective both on the land and sea as its jurisdiction extended up to 500 m on the land and 15 km seawards. The department has plans to avail itself of the services of retired personnel from the Navy and the Coast Guard, natives of the region, on contract basis for the CSP, he said. Internal Security Division has already availed itself of the services of retired senior officers from the Army at its headquarters in Bengaluru on contract basis, he noted. It would exploit technology to the full to ensure the security and safety of the people, he added. Regarding capacity augmentation of CSP, including inducting more interceptor boats, Mr. Rao said that the existing boats had limited options as they can be berthed only in a jetty. The department was planning to induct Rigid Inflatable Boats because of their flexibility to berth and also of their non-sinkable nature. Immediately after taking charge, he placed orders for three jet skis that would arrive in a month for patrolling and rescue operations. Internal Security Division, particularly the CSP, has the onerous task of protecting the long coastline, 43 beaches and several vital installations, Mr. Rao said. The department was working in close coordination with the Indian Navy, Coast Guard, Goa Shipyard Ltd. and other State government departments, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/identities-of-people-on-the-coastline-being-ascertained/article32509771.ece
03 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. proposes to sanction Rs. 1 crore each to 39 mutts: Kota||The State government has proposed to grant Rs. 1 crore each to 39 mutts in the State to help them to overcome their “financial stress”, according to Minister for Endowment Kota Srinivas Poojary. Mr. Poojary told The Hindu on Wednesday that the government had made a budgetary allocation, between Rs. 1 crore and Rs. 5 crore, to the 39 mutts when H.D. Kumaraswamy was the Chief Minister. But the amount had not been sanctioned and released. The heads of those mutts had been demanding the release of the amount since then. “I have discussed the matter with the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who has agreed for releasing the grants. As the government is not in a position to sanction the amount allocated in the budget earlier, we have now proposed to release Rs. 1 crore to each of the 39 mutts,” he said. A proposal on the same has been sent to the Finance Department. “We are hopeful that the department will approve it,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy had made the budgetary allocation of Rs. 60 crore for the 39 mutts. It included Rs. 5 crore each to Tumakuru’s Siddaganga Mutt and Bengaluru’s Sonnenahalli Spatikapuri Shaka Mutt; Rs. 3 crore each to Renukananda Swami Narayanaguru Mahasamstana Mutt in Shivamogga, Hema-Vema Sadbhovana Vidyapeeta in Davangere, Murugha Mutt in Dharwad and Barkur Mutt in Udupi, and Rs. 2 crore to Ujjain Sathdharma Peeta in Ballari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-proposes-to-sanction-rs-1-crore-each-to-39-mutts-kota/article32509599.ece
03 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Worker murdered in Moodbidri||A 35-year-old worker was murdered in Mijar village of Moodbidri on Tuesday night, the Moodbidri police said. According to the police, Umesh Devadiga (35) was hacked to death near his house in Aremajalu Palka of Mijar. The reason for the murder is not known yet. The police said that they were working on some clues that may lead them to the accused involved in the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worker-murdered-in-moodbidri/article32509774.ece
03 September 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ranganathittu bird sanctuary reopens for visitors||The Ranganathittu bird sanctuary near Srirangapatna in Mandya district, which was temporarily closed early this month over threat of floods, was reopened for visitors on Tuesday, with boating and other activities also resuming. Though the number of visitors was not encouraging, the authorities hope that footfall may go up in the days ahead. The sanctuary, including the boats and life jackets, were thoroughly disinfected before the gates were thrown open for visitors. Deputy Conservator of Forests Alexander told The Hindu that over 90 people visited on the day of reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ranganathittu-bird-sanctuary-reopens-for-visitors/article32509586.ece
03 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Take a virtual tour of rail museum||Virtual tours to satiate wanderlust amidst the pandemic has gained currency world over and the Mysuru Division of South Western Railway has joined the bandwagon to enable potential tourists and rail aficionados to explore the exhibits online. The virtual tour of the Mysuru Rail Museum, commissioned on Wednesday, provides an interactive experience of the facility with voice-over that provides the visitor a detailed walk through the exhibits. Dedicated by Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, the tour enables one to discover the slew of exhibits at the museum, which was renovated and inaugurated early this year. Though the museum reopened in June, tourist footfall is low as the travel industry is yet to regain traction due to surge in COVID-19 cases. Hence, the authorities thought it fit to commission the virtual tour facility on its website https://mysururailmuseum.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-a-virtual-tour-of-rail-museum/article32509587.ece
03 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha bypass nearing completion||The Alappuzha bypass project is inching closer to completion. According to Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, concreting work at Kuthirapanthy has been finished. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Sudhakaran said paving of mastic asphalt on the 2.8-km flyover had begun. The work is done by specially trained workers brought from Tamil Nadu. “If weather permits, this work will be completed in 30 days. We hope to open the bypass to traffic by October,” the Minister said. The Alappuzha bypass project was first mooted four decades ago. However, it had remained on paper until the work got under way on April 10, 2015. The project, which was set to be completed in September 2017, got delayed on account of various reasons. Reason for delay The project got dragged after Railways delayed permission to place girders over the railway track as part of the construction of two rail overbridges (ROBs) at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy. Earlier, after inspecting the girders brought for the construction of the ROBs, Railways had recommended structural changes. Following this, necessary changes were made in the girders of both ROBs. Railways granted permission to place girders at Malikamukku in January and the nod for the work at Kuthirapanthy was received in June. The 6.8-km two-lane bypass road, passing through the western side of NH 66, will link Kommady in the north to Kalarcode in the south.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-bypass-nearing-completion/article32509986.ece
03 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha sees another spike||The number of COVID-19 cases jumped again in the district with 159 people testing positive for the disease on Wednesday. Of the total cases, 130 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Fifteen who came from other States, 11 from abroad, two health-care workers and a Kayamkulam native, whose source of infection is unknown, also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. 130 contact cases Among the 130 local transmission cases, 27 were recorded from Alappuzha, nine from Mavelikara, eight from Kayamkulam and seven each from Cherthala South and Punnapra South. Rest of the contact cases were from Arattupuzha (6), Pattanakkad (6), Thaikkattussery (6), Thanneermukkom (5), Mannancherry (4), Mararikulam South (4), Pallippuram (4), Aryad (3), Karuvatta (3), two cases each from Cherthala, Pallippad, Thrikkunnappuzha, Karthikappally, Mannar, Ezhupunna, Ambalappuzha and one case each from Kavalam, Thazhakkara, Chettikulangara, Thuravoor, Chunakkara, Krishnapuram, Perumbalam, Thalavady, Kadavoor, Thamarakulam, Chennithala, Vayalar, Kuthiathode, Puliyoor, Chingoli, Haripad and Pathiyoor. Meanwhile, 288 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,746.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-sees-another-spike/article32509988.ece
03 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CPI(M) protest criticised||Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan has come out against the CPI (M) for observing a ‘black day’ on Wednesday, which happened to be the birth anniversary of Sree Narayana Guru. “The killing of two young men was sad. We can understand the feelings of the CPI(M) in connection with the incident. However, the party’s decision to observe black day, three days after the incident, on Sree Narayana Guru Jayanti shows disrespect towards the Guru,” Mr. Natesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-protest-criticised/article32509855.ece
03 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Landslip robs remote hamlet of power||A snapped power line has left the Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat in Munnar isolated for over a month. The devastating landslip at Pettimudy on August 7 had damaged the power line, bringing to a stop the online classes for school students there. Though the entire panchayat is yet to be electrified, students used to reach the main centre, Societykudy, to attend the classes. There was already an initial delay in accessing the classes, and with this disruption, the students’ academic year is in peril. An official of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said efforts were on restore power supply by next week. “The destroyed cables will have to be be replaced,” said Manoj D., deputy chief engineer, KSEB. Parallel distribution The Tata Group provides power connection in Munnar and the line extends till Pettimudy, from where the KSEB underground cables are drawn to Edamalakkudy. The KSEB now plans to speed up work on a parallel power distribution system from Munnar to Marayur to avoid electricity disruption in plantation areas. The disruption of power at Pettimudy had hampered rescue operations in the aftermath of the landslip. Substation work The construction work of the 33-kV KSEB substation was almost completed. The first phase of the parallel line was over and the tender works for the second phase were through, said a KSEB official. “When completed, the parallel system in Munnar will ensure smooth distribution of power.” The KSEB power line through the Marayur route passes over 36 kilometres of Kanan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP)-owned property. The KSEB has already set up a parallel distribution system in Munnar town and is ready to issue new power connections on request, according to the official.  Students’ online classes in the tribal hamlet have come to a stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslip-robs-remote-hamlet-of-power/article32509982.ece
03 September 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Forester injured in elephant attack||A forest watcher suffered serious injuries in an elephant attack at Tholpetty under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary on Tuesday night. Shibu, alias Uthaman, 38, of Kollykkal at Tholpetty has been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Shibu is a temporary forest watcher of the sanctuary. Shibu was attacked by a crop-raiding lone tusker while he was trying to chase the elephant from a plantain farm near Tholpetty around 9 p.m. on the day, sanctuary sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forester-injured-in-elephant-attack/article32509896.ece
03 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Voice clip lands M.V. Jayarajan in controversy||A message by Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan to party cadres on the Public Service Commission (PSC) rank-list issue has raked up a controversy. The voice message by the CPI(M) leader says that party cadres should go on Facebook in a planned manner regarding the rank-list controversy. Purported message It says that the party will prepare and send comments for Facebook discussions and it should be ensured that at least 300 people under a local committee posted these comments. The message says that a single person commenting 10 or 15 times does not create an impact. The instructions were given to leaders up to the branch-secretary level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voice-clip-lands-mv-jayarajan-in-controversy/article32509878.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||An ‘emotionally abusive’ time for children in Ernakulam||The first quarter of the ongoing fiscal, which coincided with the national lockdown, turned out to be emotionally challenging for children in the district, going by figures compiled by Childline. As many as 57 cases of emotional abuse of children were reported, with the numbers progressively rising from just three in April to 25 in May and 29 in June. At 32, girls were predominantly on the receiving end of emotional abuse. Continued emotional mistreatment, which sometimes is psychological in nature, qualifies as emotional abuse and involves attempts to scare, humiliate, isolate, and neglect. Childline has found that emotionally abused children invariably suffer from some other form of abuse or neglect as well. “In most cases, neighbours who already had some running feuds with the families of children have emerged as the perpetrators. Alcoholic father was the source of emotional abuse in some cases, and that had an impact on the academics of the victims as well,” said Jithin Xavier, district coordinator, Childline. The three-month period also witnessed 12 child sexual abuse cases. Girls, seven, again were mostly the victims. Vulnerable group Children in the age group of six to12 and 13 to 16 were found to be the most vulnerable lot. The abusers were mostly known to the victims and included relatives, neighbours, and lovers. Sexual assault, penetrative sexual assault, and sexual harassment were the most reported forms of child sexual abuse. There was even a case of incest in which children were abused by their uncles and aunts. Pornography that involved sending messages with sexual intentions, capturing private parts and sexual images of victims, and storing them as child sexual abuse material was also reported. “An encouraging aspect was the low threshold level of tolerance, as none of the victims had any similar experience in the past. The cases were reported within a window of a week to five to six months,” said Mr. Xavier. In seven cases, the perpetrators could be arrested thanks to the willingness of parents or guardians to report the matter. All 12 children are now back to their normal routine and living with their parents. Childline has also reported 21 cases of physical abuse of children during the period, with children in the 11 to 15 age group being the victims mostly. Beating with hands or sticks or cane has emerged as the commonest form of physical abuse. Father has emerged as the biggest perpetrator, while mother and grandparents were also involved in some cases. Almost all types of abuses had taken place either at home or at a place near home. “The tension of family being locked up together could be one of the reasons for emotional and physical abuse during the period. Otherwise, children were safer as reflected in fewer child sexual abuse cases. Besides, it also facilitated increased reporting,” said Mr. Xavier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-emotionally-abusive-time-for-children-in-ernakulam/article32509871.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic crisis takes a toll on online learning||Many students in colleges across Ernakulam remain cut off from online classes, as the financial crisis faced by their parents following the pandemic has taken a toll on their learning process. Sajin (name changed), a second year undergraduate student, had to take up a temporary job to support his parents. “I am not able to access the nearly five hours of live classes daily, as I work in the daytime. There was no other option, as the earnings of my parents were hit badly after the lockdown,” he said. Several students depend on their family members to get hold of a smartphone to access classes. “The increasing expenses for recharging Internet packs remain another worry,” said Aravind, a student of B.Sc Physics. College managements have started taking count of students lacking smartphones and financial resources to get net connection. “We had given smartphones worth Rs. 8,000 each to 20 eligible students through a fund mobilised with contributions from faculty members,” said Sunish K.S., member of the governing council at Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam. M.V. Rajesh, associate professor at Government Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, said the old students’ association under the banner of xMEC Social Assist Trust had provided 200 tabs to students belonging to economically backward sections. David Saj Mathew P., principal, Union Christian College, Aluva, said the old students association had launched a digital challenge initiative to help needy students. “This includes providing digital learning equipment and financial assistance for Internet recharge to students selected based on the feedback collected from teachers,” he said. Faculty members at colleges said they often learnt about difficulties faced by students from their classmates, as they remained hesitant to open up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-crisis-takes-a-toll-on-online-learning/article32509872.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Exercise restraint, Kodiyeri urges CPI(M) workers||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has urged party workers to exercise restraint and not to get provoked while protesting against the twin murder of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists at Venjaramoodu in Thiruvananthapuram. Inaugurating a black day protest organised by the party in the district, Mr. Balakrishnan said the Congress and the United Democratic Front would attempt to provoke CPI(M) activists and draw them to violent responses. The party workers shall not walk into the trap laid by the Opposition parties. No party office shall be attacked and properties destroyed. The party does not believe in physically fighting its opponents. Expose Opposition The CPI(M) activists shall focus on peaceful protests and expose the designs of the Opposition parties. The Opposition parties shall be politically isolated, he said. Mr. Balakrishnan said the Congress was unleashing violence in the State to divert public attention from its failed campaign against the Left Democratic Front government in the Assembly. The no-confidence motion moved by the UDF in the Assembly had backfired and had presented the LDF government an opportunity to showcase its achievements, he said. The UDF and the BJP attempted to destabilise the LDF government with the support of a few media houses by spreading false stories about the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. However, the UDF could not prove any of the allegations it raised against the party and the government, he said. Mr. Balakrishnan said the Congress has the blood of over 200 CPI(M) workers on its hands. P. Rajeev and C.N. Mohanan, party leaders, were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exercise-restraint-kodiyeri-urges-cpim-workers/article32509877.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic fails to dampen demand for milk||The Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union sold a record 7.70 lakh litres of milk on Uthradam day on Sunday against an average daily sale of 3.50 lakh litres. The regional cooperative also sold 66,000 litres of curd on the day. The peak in Onam season sale came as a surprise for the cooperative, as both milk production and sale had been severely hit by COVID-19 restrictions. The cooperative had sold 7 lakh litres of milk on Uthradam day last year. “Generating an extra sale of around 70,000 litres is a surprise. We were not seeing such a big jump in sale, though there was an expected rise in demand for dairy products despite the lockdown,” said Ernakulam region chairman John Theruvath. The regional cooperative comprises dairy farmers from the districts of Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Idukki. Almost the entire demand was met by local production except for 25,000 litres of milk which was brought from outside the State. The COVID-19 restrictions on Onam celebrations have been a big dampener on the market this season. The market for products ranging from consumer durables to eatables has remained much suppressed in the run-up to the Onam festivities. Milk sales across the State saw an upward swing this season despite the lockdown. Milma, which comprises the regions of Ernakulam, Kozhikode, and Thiruvananthapuram, sold around three million litres of milk on Uthradam, in addition to over three lakh litres of curd. Meanwhile, Mr. John said the dairy sector had been severely hit by the pandemic. The price of cattle feed had crossed Rs. 1,200 per 50 kg, which was a big blow to the sector. The rise in the cost of raw materials is the basic reason for the spiralling cost of cattle feed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-fails-to-dampen-demand-for-milk/article32509869.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SPC orders disposal of seized vehicles||State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera has asked all police stations to dispose of seized and abandoned vehicles kept at stations to keep the premises hygienic and tidy in view of the COVID-19 situation as well as a recent High Court directive on disposal of such vehicles. In his order, Mr. Behera says unclaimed vehicles not involved in crime cases can be disposed of invoking Section 56 of the Kerala Police Act. In fact, there has been a lack of clarity among a few police officers about the disposal of vehicles the details of which are not available at stations. Such vehicles might have been seized long back either in connection with a crime or entrusted with the station by some other department for safe custody. The order says that any seized vehicles in relation to which no legal action or court proceeding is pending shall be deemed to be an unclaimed article. As per the law, before declaring a seized vehicle as unclaimed, the registered certificate owner shall be issued a notice by the SHO concerned to take possession of the vehicle forthwith and subject to certain conditions. If the owner does not respond, such vehicles can be treated as unclaimed and action can be taken for disposing them of under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-orders-disposal-of-seized-vehicles/article32509893.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor’s official vehicle runs into controversy||The reported auctioning of the official car of the Mayor has kicked up a debate, with the Opposition councillors demanding an inquiry into the matter. Quoting the report of the Local Fund Audit Department, the Opposition councillors said the vehicle had been auctioned off to a private individual against the Government Order (GO) to condemn and demolish it. It was the audit report for 2018-19 that highlighted the violation of procedures, said a statement issued by CPI(M) leaders K.J. Antony and V.P. Chandran. The Opposition councillors had opposed the Mayor’s move to replace the vehicle with a new one. A new car was purchased for the Mayor by utilising Rs. 20 lakh from the development fund of the Kochi Corporation. The Mayor went for a new vehicle at a time when the civic body was struggling to raise funds for the development needs of the city, the LDF councillors said. Responding to the charges, Mayor Soumini Jain said the new car was purchased after the council approved it and the government issued an order to that effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayors-official-vehicle-runs-into-controversy/article32509863.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NGO sets up drug banks||A non-governmental organisation (NGO) has come to the aid of patients from impoverished backgrounds and suffering from non-communicable diseases hit hard by the outbreak of the pandemic by setting up drug banks to supply them free medicines. Nanma Drug Banks run by Nanma Foundation were officially launched via an online function on Wednesday. “To begin with, one centre each will be run in Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kozhikode,” said Inspector General P. Vijayan and a patron of Nanma Foundation. A help desk has been set up (89431-80000) for information on drug banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngo-sets-up-drug-banks/article32509864.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Excise seizes 35 kg of ganja||Excise officials on Wednesday arrested three persons on the charge of smuggling in 35 kg of ganja, valued around Rs. 12 lakh, from Andhra Pradesh on a lorry at Aluva. The seizure was made during a special drive. The arrested are Hakkim from Kozhikode and Ahammad Kabeer and Jaffer from Pattambi. The key accused, Shameer Babu of Thrissur, is at large, Excise officials said. “The contraband was sourced from Rajamahendravaram in Andhra Pradesh and smuggled into Kerala via Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,” said Ashok Kumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-seizes-35-kg-of-ganja/article32509865.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||136 new patients in Ernakulam||A total of 136 people, including five with a recent history of travel from abroad or other States, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. The newly-infected included four health workers, including one at the General Hospital in Ernakulam. As many as 119 people recovered from the disease. A communication from the District Information Office said 16,362 people were under observation, including 89 in COVID Care Centres and 2,263 in paid quarantine centres. On Wednesday, 121 people were admitted to hospitals/first-line treatment centres, while 120 were discharged following recovery. Meanwhile, plasma therapy at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, got a shot in the arm, with Rs. 20.2 lakh being provided by K.J. Maxi, MLA, for purchase of an Apheresis machine, from his development fund. The machine will revolutionise the plasma therapy wing of the hospital, according to Resident Medical Officer Dr. Ganesh Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/136-new-patients-in-ernakulam/article32509868.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One held with country liquor||The Chottanikkara police arrested a man with 3 litres of country liquor on Wednesday. The arrested is Davis, 47, of Kanakamala. The police said he lived in a rented flat at Thiruvaniyur where he allegedly brewed liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-with-country-liquor/article32509866.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held for assault on Customs officer||The Central police on Monday arrested a four-member gang that assaulted and robbed a Customs officer of his smart phone at the Marine Drive walkway early Wednesday morning. The arrested were identified as Agesg, Antony Stepher, Bilal, and Bovin Smith. They were charged under IPC Section 392 (robbery) and Sections. The police could initially arrest Bovin alone before rounding up the remaining later in the day. Reportedly, the Customs officer, who was out for morning walk, took a picture which offended the accused who happened to be in the vicinity. It is learnt that they were smoking and concluded that the officer had taken their picture to frame them while the latter claimed that he had merely taken a selfie. The accused then picked an argument with the officer, asking him to delete the photograph at the end of which they assaulted him, robbed of him of the smart phone and fled the scene. The victim, who lives nearby, lodged a petition with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-for-assault-on-customs-officer/article32509867.ece
03 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pandemic protocol leaves fishermen at sea||‘Cordial’, with its 14-member crew, used to fish in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), sifting the sea for over 10 days and hauling back a fairly good catch in its hold. But the new COVID-19 protocol requires all trawlers to return to the harbours of origin in two to five days and the brief sorties are causing them much trouble. “Depending on the season and shoal flow, sometimes it takes us two to three days to locate a fishing ground. We usually stay for six to seven days and bring back export-oriented catch such as cuttlefish, squid, octopus, and shrimp. It is not possible to return within the stipulated time with a good catch as the window is not enough to commute to long distances,” says K.B. Kassim, the boat owner. Normally trawlers go beyond territorial waters, some of them taking 24 to 36 hours to cover the distance to their usual fishing ground. “At present, the availability of fish is very low and now we also have the extra burden of providing quarantine facilities for our crew members. Each trip costs Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 lakh and returning with minimal catch means huge loss for us,” he adds. Fishers also point out that Kerala is the only State that has imposed such a protocol. “As a result, the boat owners from Kerala are suffering and this new regulation is causing irreparable damage to the sector,” says Joseph Xavier Kalappurakkal, general secretary, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association. Stricter rules in Kerala Meanwhile, Fisheries Department officials say their priority is providing equal opportunity to all boats without risking the safety of fishers. “Compared to other States, safety measures are more stringent in Kerala and the result is reflected in our low caseload. Since it is the livelihood of many, we have to tread very cautiously,” says Fisheries Deputy Director K. Suhair. He adds that the government may soon change the norms taking into account the current crisis. “After the trawl ban ended, the boats were getting excellent catch and some boats were returning even within 24 hours. But now the quantity of fish has come down and we are assessing the situation. We will have to allow more time if there is a considerable dip in the catch and we may lift the ban very soon,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-protocol-leaves-fishermen-at-sea/article32509895.ece
03 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||81 cases, 85 recoveries in Kollam||The district reported 81 new cases of COVID-19 and 85 recoveries on Wednesday. While 77 patients contracted the infection through contact, the others include two health workers and two persons who had travelled from Punjab and West Bengal. The health workers who tested positive include a 32-year-old Punthalathazham resident and 35-year-old Arkannur resident, both working with government facilities. Among the patients who recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday are 93-year-old Krishnan and 90-year-old Kamalakshi Amma who were discharged from Kollam District Hospital. Krishnan, a Mathilil resident, had tested positive while undergoing treatment for hip fracture. Kamalakshi Amma had gone to Kottarakara Taluk Hospital with a fractured hand and she was shifted to District Hospital after testing positive. The district currently has 14,862 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 45,304. 1,455 active cases While 775 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 18,033 primary and 4,970 secondary contacts of the new cases. At present 12 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres are operating in the district and the number of active cases as on Wednesday is 1,455.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/81-cases-85-recoveries-in-kollam/article32509990.ece
03 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||145 cases in Kottayam||As many as 145 people including a health worker at the General Hospital in Changanassery, tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 142 people contracted the virus through local contact. Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases with 29 people testing positive, followed by Kooroppada with 24 cases. Erattupetta reported 13 cases while Vazhappally reported five cases. Cases were also reported from Kumarakom, Thiruvarppu and Erumeli panchayats. With 67 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,502 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/145-cases-in-kottayam/article32509984.ece
03 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees 204 fresh cases||After a two-day gap, fresh COVID-19 cases crossed 200-mark in Kozhikode when 204 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 174 people got infected through local transmission while the source was unknown in 17 cases. Others had returned from abroad or from other places. There were seven health workers among the newly infected persons. The largest number of local transmission cases was from within Kozhikode Corporation as well as Vadakara where 37 and 42 people, respectively, tested positive for the virus. The figure for Thiruvalloor was 22. Meanwhile, 194 people recovered from the infection too. The total number of active cases in the district now is 1,888. As many as 131 people from other districts are under treatment at various facilities here. In Malappuram As many as 146 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Wednesday. However, there were also 317 recoveries in the district. While 120 people contracted the virus through local contacts, four came from abroad and three from other States. The source of infection in 19 cases could not be traced. They included five health workers. The number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district fell to 2,387 on Wednesday. More than 47,000 people were quarantined across the district. In Palakkad While 30 persons tested positive in Palakkad on Wednesday, the district also registered 98 recoveries. As many as 14 of the new cases contracted the virus through local transmission. Six cases came from other States, and the source of infection could not be identified in 10 cases. In Thrissur As many as 121 people tested positive in Thrissur district on Wednesday. Of them, 118 were infected through contact. The district also recorded 100 recoveries. The source of infection of 20 people could not be traced. Two health workers were also tested positive. In all, 8,799 people are under observation. In Kannur Kannur district saw 142 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. There were 118 local transmission cases. Three health workers were among the infected. While one patient came from abroad, 20 returned from other States. The district has so far reported 3,809 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 2,787 have recovered from the disease. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 88 people tested positive for the virus. Among them, 86 contracted the virus through local transmission. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said that 158 people tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. The district has so far reported 5,245 COVID-19 cases. In Wayanad A total of 38 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Wednesday. Of the total cases reported on Wednesday, 32 persons, including a civil police officer and a health worker, were infected through contact and the remaining persons arrived from other States . A total of 3,031 people are under observation in the district.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-sees-204-fresh-cases/article32509859.ece
03 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Street vendors face uncertain future||The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent national lockdown happened just within a couple of weeks after several street vendors received their identity cards for lawful operation on the Kozhikode beach. For them, it was just the beginning of a looming crisis, as safety regulations literally shut the doors behind their sole means of subsistence. “We are totally clueless about our future amid these uncertain times. For those with permanent shops, things are going smooth, but people like us have no hope of resuming pushcart business,” said Basheer, who used to sell eatables on the beach. Though some have relocated business to other places, a majority are struggling with the unexpected setback after people stopped visiting the beach, he added. Only those who took up pushcart trade as a part-time venture are somehow managing the situation with the meagre income they derive from their main vocation. The group includes daily wage workers, fishermen, cleaning labourers, and farmers. For the other segment, the reopening of tourist destinations like beaches and parks will be crucial. A headload worker in the beach area said there were several women who had lost their sources of income with the closure of the Kozhikode beach. “Most of them used to prepare food at home for sale on the beach. There were also women who earned a living by selling ice candies, marinated fruits and drinks,” he said. According to official figures available with the Kozhikode Corporation, there are 2,036 street vendors in the city with special identity cards. The pandemic made its entry at a time when the civic body was considering implementing a number of creative welfare projects such as special vending zones and a food street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/street-vendors-face-uncertain-future/article32509861.ece
03 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Downed shutters throw open windows of change||The COVID-19-induced financial crisis took its toll on almost all business ventures. With customers barely walking in, for fear of the pandemic, many were forced to shut down. However, a few managed to survive and keep their businesses afloat by launching themselves online or refreshing the accounts they had before the pandemic hit.  Quality products Shaima, who runs a fancy shop at Koyilandy, suddenly shifted her focus to the online shop that she had started a year ago and succeeded in making both ends meet during the crisis. “Time was the only investment I needed; time that I would have otherwise wasted watching TV or browsing the Internet,” Ms. Shaima said.  She had joined an online retailer group a year ago and cultivated it through her own circle of acquaintances. What was at first just a side business turned into her major source of income once the lockdown began. “It was the people’s fear about going out that helped us expand our business. They could order stuff online and we would deliver at their doorstep. Prompt delivery and quality products were added advantages,” Ms. Shaima said. Her online group that started with 50 people now have over 90 members. “People who order once bring in their friends and acquaintances,” she said, adding that her small business of mainly clothes grew manifold during the pandemic era. There are many entrepreneurs who made some quick bucks just by improving their activities on social media. Riswana and Jiji banked on their creative talent rather than entrepreneurial skills to survive the crisis. Riswana is a jewellery maker/crafter who made the best use of the extra time she got during the lockdown to launch a social media page featuring handmade jewellery that clicked instantly. She claimed it was mainly owing to the quality content and affordable prices. “My clients are mostly local people, but I had some orders from faraway places, especially during the Id,” she said. Jiji made dreamcatchers and sold it to her friends and classmates even as an undergraduate student. Now with the colleges closed, she had more time to dedicate to her social media page, which garnered more popularity. “My only problem was that I could not get enough supplies owing to the lockdown and since the imports from China stopped. But I could manage to keep my customers happy with what I had stocked up earlier,” Ms. Jiji said, adding how right pricing and prompt delivery were key to successful online businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/downed-shutters-throw-open-windows-of-change/article32509890.ece
03 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beauticians struggling to survive the waiting game||Waiting is all they can do. Being in a profession where touching the client is mandatory, beauticians are the least sought-after professionals in the COVID era. With local transmission of COVID-19 catapulting day by day, fear has gripped the beauty service sector like no other. “Only five per cent of beauty parlours in Kozhikode stay open these days. The rest have given up as they could not afford building rent and staff salary,” said Deepa Hari, district president of Kerala Beauticians’ Association. In the post-lockdown period, beauty parlours and saloons had been permitted to take up only hair cuts and other hair-related services. But very few people approach beauty parlours for hair cuts, as they do not find the service necessary these days. “Only school and college going girls try out fancy hair cuts. With schools and colleges closed, our customer base is non-existent,” said Prameela Rajan, president of a Beauticians’ Cooperative Society. Weddings were the biggest market for those in beauty business. “Very few people hire us for bridal make up these days. We have even cut down the rates as our clients too are facing financial difficulties,” said Haseena Mansoor who has over 30 years of experience in the beauty service sector. While bigger beauty parlour chains have managed to stay afloat for a few months, smaller ones, mostly built on huge bank loans, are struggling to survive. “If this continues for another month or two, at least half of the beauty parlours in the city will be closed down. Even now, many have been put on sale, though there are no takers,” said Deepa Hari, adding that the association was contemplating closing down all parlours for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beauticians-struggling-to-survive-the-waiting-game/article32509862.ece
03 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Alert against misuse of Jan Aushadhi brand||The State Drugs Control Department has alerted its officials against issuing licences to retail pharmacy outlets who misuse the Jan Aushadhi brand name in their hoardings and advertisements. This follows reports about a pharmacy chain, Jan Aushadhi Sangh, running outlets named JAS Medicals in Kottayam district. Many people reportedly mistook it to be the retail pharmacy outlets run by the Central government’s flagship scheme to provide generic medicines at cheap rates to the people. Those who wanted to set up medical stores under the scheme too were reportedly misled by these outlets. According to sources, assistant drugs controllers in districts were informed that the Bureau of Pharma Public Sector Undertakings of India (BPPI) retains the trademark titles Jan Aushadhi and Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana. Licences shall not be issued to anyone with either the title Jan Aushadhi or similar brand names that could create confusion. The State Drugs Controller pointed out that the BPPI had taken action against those who misused the brand name.  Sandeep Kumar, State nodal officer, BPPI, was not available for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alert-against-misuse-of-jan-aushadhi-brand/article32509891.ece
03 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Respite for Pathanamthitta||Even as the emergence of new COVID 19 cases in Pathanamthitta remained considerably low for the second consecutive day, the disease continued to claim more lives in the district with four more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 posthumously. These deaths are not included on the State’s overall list for Wednesday. According to officials, a 72-year-old woman from Enathu and another 65-year-old woman from Kuttoor, who had died the other day later tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Further, a 70-year-old Erathu native, who had died at the Alappuzha Medical College and an 80-year-old Mundikottakkal native, who had died at the District General Hospital in Pathanamthitta, too were confirmed infected posthumously. With this, the death toll due to the virus in the district has gone up to 24, taking the fatality rate to 0.69%. Three others including a cancer patient had died of COVID-19 related complications. Fifteen people tested positive in the district on Wednesday. A colony cluster has been identified at Kollakunnu, near Thirumoolapuram, which reported six cases on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/respite-for-pathanamthitta/article32509983.ece
03 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Neyyar water supply project getting delayed||The Neyyar water supply project, which promises an additional 100 million litres a day (mld) to the capital city, appears to be stuck in limbo with the project site still mired in an ownership dispute. Meantime, the project itself is threatening to get costlier for the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). Chicago Constructions International Pvt. Ltd., the contractor for the Rs. 56.2-crore project, has informed the KWA that the rates in the original contract need to be re-negotiated, given the inordinate delay that has hit the project. Although the contractor had mobilised personnel and machinery, work could not be commenced due to vehement protests over the status of the property. Come September 19, it would be exactly one year since the KWA inked the contract with the Thiruvananthapuram-based firm. As per the agreement, the work was to be completed in 18 months. In fact, the KWA had plans to commission the 120 mld project (100 mld to the city and 20 mld to four panchayats) in March 2021. Land transferred Delays have stalked the project despite the government formally transferring six acres of land from the Irrigation Department to the KWA on February 18, 2020. Following a dispute over a temple on the site, the Sree Rama Dasa Mission, Chenkottukonam, moved court against its forceful eviction claiming ‘Kuthakapattam.’ On July 30, the Additional Munsiff Court, Neyyattinkara, granted an order of temporary injunction restraining the government and the KWA from evicting the petitioner or launching construction on the property until further orders. Appeal filed Meanwhile, KWA officials said that the utility had taken steps to sort out the issue. The KWA has appealed against the July 30 order in the District Court, Suresh Chandran, superintending engineer, Thiruvananthapuram Circle, said. Revision of project schedules would be dependent on the court decision.  Decisions pertaining to re-negotiation of the terms of contract had to be taken at a higher level, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neyyar-water-supply-project-getting-delayed/article32509930.ece
03 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GPS, passenger info system soon in RTC||Computerisation and e-governance in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) aimed at improving services and toning up administration have got the nod of the government. The Rs. 16.98-crore project, which has got administrative sanction, includes service operation, passenger information system, ticketing, and Global Positioning System (GPS) for the fleet. The project is to be executed in five months as asked by the government, KSRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said. The ailing transport undertaking is getting funds from the exchequer other than for meeting the salary and allowances of those on the rolls for the first time. GPS will help authorities to track the movement of buses real time. A passenger information system will also be provided. Passengers will be able to get schedules, route changes, and bus location on each route. En route passengers will be able to know seat availability. Optimal feet utilisation  The operations wing can monitor the bus and keep tabs on drivers and intervene in case of reckless driving. As the distance covered by each bus will be available via GPS, optimal feet utilisation will be possible for the operations wing. A management information system (MIS) will be implemented by computerising all basic information related to employees and service management. A round-the-clock modern control centre and help desk for vehicle control, analysis, and assistance for passengers will be set up as part of the project. A modern ticketing system with cashless facilities will be implemented. A mobile ticketing system is also on the anvil. By linking the ticketing system with GPS, passengers will be able to receive real-time seat information and able to reserve tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gps-passenger-info-system-soon-in-rtc/article32509892.ece
03 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||228 cases, three more deaths in capital||The capital district reported 228 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, even as the overall death toll in the district has risen to 92 with three more recent deaths being attributed to the infection. The deceased included a 63-year-old man from Kalakkode and an 80-year-old woman from Vizhinjam who died on August 28 and a 63-year-old man from Sreekaryam who died on August 17. Disease transmission through contact accounted for 151 of the cases, while the source of infection remained uncertain in 60 cases.  The day’s caseload also included 16 health workers. On the brighter side, Thiruvananthapuram has reported 402 recoveries. As many as 4,951 people are currently under treatment in the district. Uchakkada reported 11 new cases on Wednesday while Nedumangad reported 10 cases. Coastal areas such as Cheriyathura (7), Kochuthope (5) and Pozhiyoor (4) also have recorded new cases, as per the statistics released by the district administration. Eight people tested positive in Parassala and six people each in Kulathoor and Venkadambu. In all, 1,550 people were placed under disease surveillance on Wednesday, while 2,318 others completed the observation period without exhibiting symptoms. At present, 21,726 people are under surveillance in the district, including 17,452 people who are in home quarantine. Containment zone Meanwhile, the City Police barricaded the entry point to the Poundkadavu ward which was declared a containment zone on Tuesday. Travel outside the zone will be allowed only for seeking medical care. Medical shops and shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to function. Home delivery would not be allowed, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The police also charged nine persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, for violating COVID-19 restrictions in a manner that could enable disease transmission. Seventeen people were fined for failing to observe physical distancing norms and 95 others, for failure to wear masks. Balan in quarantine Cultural Affairs Minister A.K. Balan went into self-quarantine after one of his gunmen tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Members of the Minister’s staff who had come into contact with the patient too have gone into self-quarantine. The gunman was on duty from August 14 to 28. The Minister and his staff who had visited the Assembly for the one-day session on August 24 had undergone antigen tests there, but had tested negative. Mr. Balan’s office will remain closed for two days for disinfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/228-cases-three-more-deaths-in-capital/article32509932.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. had no role in murders: MP||Adoor Prakash, Congress MP from Attingal, insisted on Wednesday that past rivalries in the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) had resulted in the murders of two DYFI workers in Venjaramoodu on August 29 and the Congress had no role in the offence. The party has no faith in the police investigation. The officers handling the case had displayed political bias against the Congress, he alleged. DYFI denies charges Mr. Prakash said A.A. Rahim, DYFI State secretary, had reached Venjaranmoodu police station soon after the crime and politically instructed the police to foist the murder on the Congress leadership. However, the DYFI has denied the allegation. Mr. Prakash also accused the son of D. K. Murali, CPI(M) legislator from Vamanapuram, of having a role in the crime. Mr. Murali has denied the allegation and blamed Mr. Prakash for the crime. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said Mr. Prakash had foreknowledge of the murders and had attempted to shield the accused. He said the police should bring the ‘role of the Congress leadership’ under the ambit of their investigation. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran accused the District Police Chief, Thiruvananthapuram Rural, of scripting the case to suit the interests of his political masters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-had-no-role-in-murders-mp/article32509875.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dump to make way for garden||For years, Erumakuzhy has been synonymous with large mounds of waste. Around five years ago, an attempt was made to bury the waste and reclaim the land for useful purposes. However, waste continued to be dumped here, even after the existing waste was buried. Now, the city Corporation seems to have finally managed to clear and segregate much of the waste accumulated there over the years. The work is expected to be completed in a week or two. The work on clearing the dump yard at Erumakuzhy began around four months ago, during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The civic body had during that time rehabilitated several people who were living on the streets and accommodated them in schools and other facilities. A group of them joined sanitation workers hired by the Corporation as part of a big effort to clear the waste and segregate it. All sorts Heaps of plastic waste of all kinds, broken glass pieces, foot wear, bags and other waste were recovered and segregated. Before they began cleaning up, a total station survey was carried out to ascertain the amount of waste in the dump yard, according to which the area had around 2,000-2,500 cubic metres of waste. “We first employed earth movers to overturn the heap. The workers then went about removing and segregating the waste. A truckload of glass waste was taken away by a recycling agency. Now, we have truckloads of plastic waste, old footwear, coconut shells and other waste remaining. This will be taken through a bailing process at the Corporation’s facility at Manacaud, to compress the waste so that it will be easier to transport it. After this, it will be handed over to the Clean Kerala company,” said Prakash, Health Supervisor of the city Corporation, who oversaw the project. The Corporation plans to set up a garden in a part of the land. A resource recovery centre for collection and segregation of waste will also be set up. Park too There are also plans to turn it into a park, following the model tried at Kadapa in Andhra Pradesh. The civic body is also planning to take up a similar project to clear the dump yard behind the Palayam market. The project has been tendered as part of the Corporation’s Smart City Project. The dumping yard at the Palayam market will be cleaned and used for parking, as part of the market improvement plan of the Smart City project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dump-to-make-way-for-garden/article32509934.ece
03 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guru’s message, ideals beacon of hope: CM||Attempts to depict the COVID-19 containment measure of physical distancing as an argument in favour of untouchability should be strongly opposed, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. “The physical distance that needs to be maintained given the COVID-19 situation is not untouchability. Neither does it become a justification for untouchability. We have to fight such distortions spread by the proponents of upper caste domination,” Mr. Vijayan said inaugurating, via videoconference, the 166th Jayanti celebrations organised by the Sree Narayana Gurukulam, Chempazhanthy, on Wednesday. A united effort by society to effectively tackle COVID-19 is perhaps the biggest tribute that can be paid to Sree Narayana Guru on his 166th birth anniversary, he said. The teachings of the Guru glow with the light of hope and optimism. COVID-19-containment protocols today require society to avoid crowds during weddings and funerals. Although the Guru had long back exhorted society to shun luxury and crowds in weddings, we had paid little heed to his advice then, he noted. The Guru adopted an uncompromising stance against regressive social customs such as caste and superstition. Tributes can be best offered to him by society through a tenacious fight against all such social ills, Mr. Vijayan said. He said the message and ideals of the Guru were a beacon of hope for the world in the battle against COVID-19. In a Facebook post , Mr. Vijayan said the Guru had upheld human values and sowed the seeds of the reformation movement in the State.  Low-key functions Due to COVID-19, the Jayanti celebrations were a low-key affair this year. Brief functions were held at the Sivagiri Madhom and the Sree Narayana Gurukulam to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gurus-message-ideals-beacon-of-hope-cm/article32509884.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Home care for COVID patients gets acceptability||Home care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients is becoming more acceptable in Kerala. As the State braces itself to get through the epidemic phase when hospitals could be overwhelmed, this perhaps may not be an option but a necessity. Kasaragod, where nearly a 1,000 asymptomatic patients have completed their infective phase and quarantine at home without any issues, has set a model for the rest of the districts. With nearly 80% of the patients in the State turning out to be asymptomatic, managing them in hospitals is beginning to strain the health system, infrastructure and human resource requirement. Kasaragod was the first district to get on board as soon as the State issued the advisory on home care for asymptomatic positive patients on August 7. Few options “Kasaragod, in reality, had few options. The district’s infrastructure and human resource in health are woefully inadequate and despite the initial premise of 4,000-5,000 beds, not more than 1,500 beds could be arranged in COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs). If we had not initiated home care, the system would not have held up,” a health official said. “We started home care initially in places where we had more doctors and field staff, so that the monitoring of patients would be smooth. We found that the patients were happier and could be managed well at home. Transition to home care has been smooth because of the perfect coordination and cooperation of the district administration and local body support,” District Medical Officer, Kasaragod, A.V. Ramdas said. Doctors would call up patients daily to check on them. Pulse Oximeters were made available by the local bodies and patients were taught to self monitor. To avoid confusion, they were asked to take pictures of the oxygen readings and send it on WhatsApp to doctors, he added. So far, only about 20 patients who were apprehensive of remaining at home or developing symptoms had to be moved to FLTCs, while over 300 who were in home care have since tested negative and completed their quarantine also. “Apart from the savings on resources, we found that the home environment was much better for the mental well-being of the patient. They were less tense as they were not far away from their family and could enjoy all home comforts ,” one of the doctors in the district said. Other districts Other districts too have begun to slowly push the home care concept, as the pressure on FLTCs and the shortage of human resources at all these centres are beginning to strain the system. At Thiruvananthapuram, the health administration has been encouraging home care. Some 500 patients have so far been accommodated at their own home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-care-for-covid-patients-gets-acceptability/article32509881.ece
03 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Free dialysis scheme for poor patients||The district panchayat is set to launch a free dialysis scheme for patients from economically backward families. As of now, authorities have identified around 800 beneficiaries from across all panchayats in the district as part of the project titled Ashwas. District panchayat president V.K. Madhu says the panchayat has signed memorandums of understanding with several hospitals. “It is a project which is being executed completely using the district panchayat’s funds. All kidney patients in the district who are not either government employees or draw a pension of less than Rs. 3 lakh per year can be included in the project. We have already arrived at an understanding with 21 hospitals, which include private and government hospitals. The panchayat will bear the entire fee of dialysis,” said Mr. Madhu. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will launch the project on Thursday. Later this week, seven new dialysis units at the District Hospital in Peroorkada will be inaugurated. The panchayat is opening an indoor stadium cum sports hub in Peringamala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-dialysis-scheme-for-poor-patients/article32509929.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IT firm donates food kits to fishers||IBS Software, an IT firm headquartered here, has donated 500 food kits to the fishermen community in the city as part of its CSR activity. The donation was made to the ‘Theerathinu Oru Kaithangu’ programme initiated by the city Corporation. Under this programme, the city Corporation will distribute food kits worth Rs. 1,000 each to members of the fishermen community that has been the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mathew Joshua, Head-Executive Relations of IBS Software, handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh to Mayor K. Sreekumar on Wednesday. Thanking IBS, the Mayor said, “It is commendable that corporates are recognising the needs of society and pledging support to the deserving in such troubled times.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-firm-donates-food-kits-to-fishers/article32509933.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSUM offers XR Learning Path course||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has invited applications from university students for XR Learning Path course, conducted in association with the ICT Academy and Unity Technologies. Students from across the country can apply for the course that consists of Game Development Foundation and XR Development streams. The course commences on September 14. For details, visit: https://unitycoe.future technologieslab.com/course/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksum-offers-xr-learning-path-course/article32509885.ece
03 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur college to set up first IIIC in South India||The Tata Group and Jyothi Engineering College, Cheruthuruthy, have signed a memorandum of understanding to set up an Integrated Industrial and Incubation Centre (IIIC) in the college. The IIIC is a joint venture between the Tata Group and various education institutions to provide technological training for students. It is Tata’s sixth IIIC in the county and the first in South India. About 90% of the cost of the Rs. 30-crore project (excluding the building) will be borne by Tata Group. The rest will be borne by Jyothi Engineering College. “Jyothi Engineering College has been selected for the project considering its performance so far,” said Tata Technologies president Anand Bhade. “It’s a gift for Thrissur and Jyothi,” said Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath of Thrissur Archdiocese which runs the college. The project aims at developing a start-up ecosystem to strengthen the Make-in-India programme. The venture will introduce state-of-the-art knowledge and skills for the students. It will improve the job opportunities for them. Students will also get internship opportunities in Tata Group of companies. The project will be functional by 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-college-to-set-up-first-iiic-in-south-india/article32509854.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Screens bring out a gripping drama||In a pandemic-hit world where a large number of people are cocooned indoors and interact with each other more through screens than in the real world, it was about time that movies also reflect that reality. But, C U Soon , streaming now on Amazon Prime, is not set in such a world. Rather, telling the story through screens — everything from mobile phones to laptops to CCTV visuals — is a challenge that the filmmakers have placed for themselves. It is something a few others have tried before — like in the 2014 horror film Unfriended or the 2018 film Searching , both of which told their story through screens. Yet Mahesh Narayanan, who has written, directed, and edited this film, has left in it a mark of his own. Here, we have Jimmy Kurian (Roshan Mathew), a Dubai-based banker, meeting Anu Sebastian (Darshana Rajendran) through an online dating website. With Jimmy wanting to get married to a somewhat reluctant Anu, his mother seeks the help of his cousin Kevin (Fahadh Faasil), who knows a thing or two about snooping online, to do a background check. A lazy search later, he gives the go-ahead. But when things seem to be going good, Anu disappears without a trace. Beyond the surface of the constant shifting between the myriad screens, there is a base story, which if told in the conventional manner, might not have matched the excitement quotient of this film, for there is a tinge of familiarity to Anu’s plight. At the same time, it is this story, and the performances of the three of them, that gives the film its emotional core, without which it could have remained a mere showcasing of technical mastery. Performing is not easy when it is just the actor’s face, in close-up, on the screen most of the time. Darshana, Fahadh, and Roshan pull it off marvellously. The taut screenplay hardly ever lets up, from the frenetic pace that it sets right at the beginning, flitting from one screen to the next, from one corner of the globe to the other. They have achieved this with characters who remain mostly indoors and meet each other mostly online. Snooping, surveillance Moments that we live out of the screen, in our real lives, are inventively brought within the screen. At times, it also makes us wonder whether we live more of our lives on-screen now. Questions about snooping and surveillance arise, on the many footprints that people leave in the digital world, making it easy even for strangers to construct an almost accurate picture of your life. Not all strangers can be as well-intentioned as the snooper in the film is. In C U Soon , Mahesh Narayanan has turned the limitations set by the pandemic to his strengths. Creativity cannot be locked down, for long. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screens-bring-out-a-gripping-drama/article32509992.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vandalised||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vandalised/article32509857.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Life goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-goes-on/article32509874.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vedi demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vedi-demand/article32509939.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Increased security||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increased-security/article32509937.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Masks of yore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/masks-of-yore/article32509898.ece
03 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power demand in farm sector sees a spike||The power consumption in the agriculture sector has seen a spike in the past week due to increased activity and lack of rain in the last week of August. The demand came down sharply on Wednesday following overnight rain and heavy showers continuing throughout the day, said APSPDCL Anantapur Superintending Engineer S. Varakumar. From the normal consumption of 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh million units for 2.36 lakh agricultural connections, the demand rose by 2 million units and went up to 4 million units. The nine-hour free power to farmers at peak requires about 30 million units to 35 million units a day in the entire State. Direct benefit transfer When asked about the proposed direct benefit transfer to farmers by metering their power consumption, Mr. Varakumar said he had read about it in the media, but no guidelines have been received officially regarding it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-demand-in-farm-sector-sees-a-spike/article32510018.ece
03 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAB announces water release from Tungabhadra Dam||In all 24.988 tmcft has been allocated from Tungabhadra Dam through TB High-Level Canal (HLC) and out of this 10 tmcft has been reserved for drinking purpose and the remaining 14.988 tmcft will be released for irrigating 1.34 lakh acres in three districts on pro-rata basis. Out of the 1.34 lakh acres, about 80,000 acres of ayacut falls in Anantapur district. In a press release here on Wednesday, Anantapur Irrigation Advisory Board Chairman Gandham Chandrudu and Convener Nayakanti Rajasekhar said that the IAB meeting could not be held due to COVID19 pandemic and that water received from the Tungabhadra Dam through HLC was being released for HLC and Guntakal Branch Canal from September 1. There is, however, no schedule given for different areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iab-announces-water-release-from-tungabhadra-dam/article32509513.ece
03 September 2020||ANANTAPUr,ANDHRA PRADESH||School joins fight against coronavirus||The 1987 batch of LRG High School, Anantapur, donated Rs. 20,50,000 to Rural Development Trust for strengthening its charity work during the pandemic in the district. Alumni Association members presented a cheque for the amount to RDP Project Director Moncho Ferrer, a release said on Wednesday. At a programme at the Anantapur Sports Academy, the alumni appreciated the RDT for taking care of the patients at Bathalapalli Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-joins-fight-against-coronavirus/article32510019.ece
03 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bike ambulance to shift patients||Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta on Thursday flagged off the “Responder motorcycle ambulance” here, which would be used for shifting COVID-19 patients from narrow lanes and streets to COVID treatment centres. Hero Moto Corp Limited had donated its first “responder motorcycle ambulance” unit worth Rs. 2 lakh to the Government District Headquarters General Hospital here. The Collector said the two-wheeler ambulance facility would be a big relief to the COVID-19 task force in shifting positive cases residing in narrow lanes to the area hospitals. “On a number of occasions, the ambulance teams find it difficult to negotiate narrow streets and lanes. This equipment will be of great help to the staff of ambulance services,” he said. District Surveillance Officer A. Sudarsan, who conducted the inaugural ride of the ambulance, said that it was the two-wheeler ambulance service in Chittoor district. “As per instructions from the Collector, this service at present would be limited to shifting COVID-19 patients to hospitals from narrow residential areas, which remain inaccessible to the regular ambulance vehicles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bike-ambulance-to-shift-patients/article32510017.ece
03 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lumpy skin disease in cattle worries Chittoor dairy farmers||A large number of cattle in several parts of Chittoor district have contracted the ‘lumpy skin disease’, causing concern among the dairy farmers. The officials say that the infection has spread into the district from the neighboring districts of Tamil Nadu through migration of cattle and their disposal at cattle fairs. An estimated 500 cattle from the western mandals such as Somala, Sadum, Pakala and Pulicharla have been affected by the disease, causing high fever in the animals, along with drop in the milk production. Dairy farmers say that the cattle are developing rashes, lumps in their udder and neck and high fever. The incidence of the disease has also been reported in some eastern mandals too. Animal Husbandry Joint Director S. Venkatrao said the disease should be treated with care and the field staff are on the job to educate the farmers on this. “This disease has come to Chittoor from Tamil Nadu. Mosquitoes play vectors for the disease. The infected cattle develop high fever and fatigue. To prevent its spread, cattle sheds should be protected from mosquitoes. Though the mortality rate is rare, neglect may lead to complications,” he said. Awareness programme Allaying the fears that the disease might spread to humans, the Joint Director said no scientific evidence supports to such claims. He said the dairy farmers should contact the field staff of the Animal Husbandry Department and seek advice. “We are planning awareness camps in the affected mandals,” said Mr. Venkatrao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lumpy-skin-disease-in-cattle-worries-chittoor-dairy-farmers/article32510039.ece
03 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flower traders seek extension of business hours||Flower merchants staged a protest on Wednesday by dumping flowers on the road near the Bengaluru bus stand in Madanapalle, demanding that the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown strictures in the municipality be relaxed. About 50 merchants at their outlets at the bus stand zone trade with varieties of flowers coming to the market from all over the western mandals. Huge consignments are supplied to several places, not only in Chittoor district but also in neighbouring districts of Kadapa and Nellore. The unprecedented rise in the COVID-19 cases all over Madanapalle division had prompted the municipal authorities to impose restrictions on the business establishments, allowing them to operate till 11 a.m. only. However, the merchants have been pleading with the authorities for extension of the business hours till evening. With their pleas falling on deaf ears, the traders collectively threw away the flowers on the Madanapalle-Bengaluru road junction, and raised slogans to draw everyone’s attention to their demands.  Discussions held Madanapalle II Town Circle Inspector Rajendranath Yadav held discussions with the agitating merchants, who contended that the restrictions had crippled their business, with a steep fall in both arrivals and dispatching of stocks, further hit by severe damage to the perishable goods. The police official assured them that he would take up the matter with the municipal authorities and arrange for relaxation in the business hours for them for two more hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flower-traders-seek-extension-of-business-hours/article32510021.ece
03 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR lives on forever: Sajjala||Former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy remains one of the most influential personalities in modern history, according to Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs), Government of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy was addressing leaders at a programme organised to pay tributes to YSR on his 11th death anniversary, at the party central office here on Wednesday. YSRCP State general secretary Lella Appireddy was among others present. “Very few leaders in modern era have endeared themselves to the people. YSR’s death had plunged the State into a crisis. Every family felt that they had lost a near one. His steadfastness and display of genuine concern, and the will power to execute the tasks have given him a place among the great leaders of his era,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy.  “YSR had made a distinct mark in governance and ensured the delivery of welfare schemes to the last mile. His legacy is now being continued by his son and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he added. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, like his father, has been taking quick decisions and giving welfare programmes a top priority. YSR lives on forever,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, B. Rajendranath Reddy, V. Srinivasa Rao, and Jairamulu, MPs N. Suresh and Gorantla Madhav, MLAs M. Nagarjuna and T. Prakash Reddy, MLC Janga Krishnamurthy, Mahila Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma, and APSSDC chairman Challa Madhusudana Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-lives-on-forever-sajjala/article32510026.ece
03 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANU takes tech route to enter record book||The pandemic might have slowed down the economy and put a pause on all academic activities, but Acharya Nagarjuna University seems to have other plans. By using state-of-art technology in conducting online class work, ANU has managed to bridge the gap. Use of various IT tools and technologies have now helped ANU to get a rare honour of being the first public university to receive a place in India Book of Records 2021 for getting maximum ranks and certificates received by a public university.  YSR contribution “We are happy that the university has been getting two ranks every month for the last one year. ANU got E-Learning Excellence for Academic Digitisation (E-LEAD) Certification from the coveted QS I-GAUGE, the first public university in the country. Overall, the university secured 22 ranks and two certificates during September 2019 and August 2020. The university received 15 international and seven national rankings as well as two national certificates from QS I- GAUGE, Scimago, NIRF, Education World, India Today etc,” Vice-Chancellor (FAC) Rajasekhar Patteti told The Hindu on Wednesday. Recollecting the contribution of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Dr. Rajasekhar said that the former Chief Minister laid the foundation for scaling up infrastructure by sanctioning an engineering college, pharmacy college, sports hostel and completely revamping the infrastructure. “Dr. Rajasekhara Reddy had believed that universities can be a stepping stone for marginalised sections dreaming of a better future and he sanctioned universities for every district in the then united State,” said the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and said his vision for imparting quality education in universities and scaling up government schools under Naadu-Needu were exemplary. He also thanked Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Minister for Education Adimulapu Suresh, Secretary to Chief Miniter Solomon Arokiaraj, Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra, and APSCHE Chairman Hema Chandra Reddy for their support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anu-takes-tech-route-to-enter-record-book/article32509515.ece
03 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pays tributes to YSR on his death anniversary||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid tributes at the ‘samadhi’ of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Idupulapaya in the district on Wednesday commemorating his 11th death anniversary. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy reached the ‘YSR Ghat’ by 8.50 a.m. along with his family members, placed a wreath on the ‘samadhi’ and sat in silence for a few minutes. The Chief Minister’s wife Bharathi, father-in-law E.C. Gangi Reddy and other family members also paid floral tributes. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, Minister for BC Welfare C. Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna, Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy, Whip K. Srinivasulu, and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy took part. Standard Operations Procedure (SOP) was in place in view of the COVID-19 situation as the district administration took precautionary measures before allowing participants near the vicinity. Apart from ensuring the presence of masks and spraying hand sanitiser to all the visitors, thermal scanners were used to check the body temperature of the visitors before allowing them into the estate. Similarly, social distancing was ensured in seating arrangement. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy left by a chopper to Kadapa airport, from where he proceeded to Gannavaram by a special flight. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan gave him a traditional farewell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-pays-tributes-to-ysr-on-his-death-anniversary/article32510030.ece
03 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA’s kin among two held for ‘smuggling’ sand||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials have arrested two people, including Surendranath Reddy, cousin brother of YSRCP MLA from Jammalamadugu M. Sudheer Reddy, recently on charges of smuggling sand. The SEB officials intercepted a vehicle laden with sand allegedly mined in violation of law last weekend and arrested Surendranath Reddy, a sand contractor and Y. Venkatramana, a tipper owner. Venkatramana was driving the vehicle. According to Additional Superintendent of Police (SEB) K. Chakravarthy, the vehicle was seized and the driver arrested on charge of transporting sand without valid bills. Sand reach owner Surendranath Reddy was also arrested on charge of complicity. The Proddatur Rural Police have registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlas-kin-among-two-held-for-smuggling-sand/article32510042.ece
03 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP to take up with officials supply of wood for handicrafts||BJP State President Somu Veerraju on Wednesday said the party would hold talks with the Forest Department on supplying wood for handicrafts, including Kondapalli and Etikoppaka toys. Speaking to newsmen here, Mr. Veerraju said the party would take forward the call given by Prime Minister Nadendra Modi to be ‘vocal for local toys’. “I will hold discussions with Principal Chief Conservator of Forests N. Prateep Kumar on the issue of scarcity of the wood and status of respective species required for Kondapalli and Etikoppaka toys,” he said. Mr. Veerraju said the party men would buy handicrafts made by the artisans in Andhra Pradesh marking Gandhi Jayanthi on October 2. During his maiden visit to Kakinada after assuming charge as BJP State president, Mr. Veerraju said the State committee would be formed soon. BJP chief J.P. Nadda would soon address the State Committee. To mark the 70th birthday of Mr. Modi, the party was preparing to donate plasma by 70 persons in East Godavari district on September 17, he said. “A 10-day schedule has been prepared to celebrate Mr. Modi’s birthday,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-to-take-up-with-officials-supply-of-wood-for-handicrafts/article32510028.ece
03 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll surges to 606 as 19 die in Nellore, Prakasam in a single day||Nellore district continued to see a steady rise in COVID cases as 1,092 more persons tested positive, while 11 succumbed to the infection in the district in the last 24 hours. The tally shot up to 32,681 with the district reporting more than 1,000 cases for the last five days in a row. The death toll rose to 311. In Prakasam district, the toll surged to 295 with eight fresh deaths during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department on Wednesday night. At least 800 persons contracted the disease taking the total number of cases to 24,518. As many as 1,425 persons, 1,023 in Nellore district and 402 in Prakasam, were discharged from the hospitals during the period. Situation reviewed Reviewing the health situation, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, who has fully recovered from COVID-19, lauded the health professionals including doctors and nurses for providing 24x7 medical care to the infected persons. About 1.2% of the patients succumbed to the disease. Meanwhile, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal launched a COVID-19 Care Centre exclusively for police personnel and their families as many of them got infected. Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar said the bed strength at the Government General Hospital had been increased from 500 to over 1,000 to accommodate the increasing number of patients requiring critical care. Beds had been arranged in the Medical College Hostel as the number of active cases crossed the 11,000-mark. The district administration had sought the services of 25 more doctors in view of the steady increase in the number of fresh cases, he said. Ongole MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy suggested creation of temporary facilities to accommodate all the serious patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-surges-to-606-as-19-die-in-nellore-prakasam-in-a-single-day/article32510023.ece
03 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||DBT in power subsidy will not affect farmers: Minister||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Wednesday made it clear that the farmers who had been enjoying free electricity would not be burdened in any way by the government’s decision of introducing direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme while disbursing subsidy to ryots with farm pumpsets. Addressing the media here, the Minister said the opposition parties were trying to mislead farmers claiming that the decision of introducing power meters was intended to phase out power subsidies over a period. “The decision has been taken as part of the reforms in power sector. The government will credit the entire bill for the power consumed by farmers on their pumpsets in the beginning of the month, which they will pay to the power distribution companies (DISCOMs),” explained the Minister. Reiterating the government’s commitment to farmers’ welfare, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said the YSRCP would never withdraw the scheme introduced by Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, after paying tributes to a statue of the former Chief Minister at the Church Centre. Infra upgrade Replying to a question, he said there would be no interruption in power supply if there was any delay in making the payments to the DISCOMs. “A sum of Rs. 1,700 crore has been released to upgrade the power infrastructure to ensure quality supply to farmers for nine hours during day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dbt-in-power-subsidy-will-not-affect-farmers-minister/article32509517.ece
03 September 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Floods: officials asked to stay alert||The Godavari is in spate for the third time in 15 days. At Bhadrachalam, a flood level of 41.60 feet was recorded at 7 p.m. on Wednesday. The Central Water Commission (CWC) indicated that the flood was rising as there were huge inflows into the river from the upstream, and asked officials of both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to be alert. At Dowleswaram The water level was rising at Kunavaram, Kukunur, cofferdam, Polavaram, V.R. Puram, Chintur and other mandals in the Agency areas in West and East Godavari districts. At the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram near Rajamahendravaram, the water level stood at 9.30 feet, and the Irrigation officials discharged 7 lakh cusecs from barrage by 6 p.m. With the Pranahita, the Wainganga, and other streams and rivulets in spate, the flood level was rising in the Godavari, and it might touch the first warning level (43 feet) by midnight, the officials cautioned. The ITDA, Irrigation and Revenue officials sounded an alert in the affected habitations, and cautioned the tribal people not to cross the river on small and country-made boats. As a precautionary measure, many families were evacuated from the low-lying areas. Groceries, candles and other essential goods were being supplied to the flood-hit villages, the officials said. ‘Sleepless nights’ “We had shifted to a hilly area and pitched tents there 15 days ago. After the floods receded, we returned, but trekked up the hill again as the flood waters entered the village for the second time. Now, the Godavari is rising again. We are spending sleepless nights,” said Modiam Posibabu of Madapuram. “Many tribal families lost everything. We request the government to continue the rehabilitation centres and supply ration as flood is rising again,” said a tribal, M. Buchaiah. K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana said boats had been arranged to shift the tribal people. An alert had been sounded in the area, he added. ‘Boats arranged’ “We have arranged boats to shift pregnant women and the aged in case of an emergency. Police pickets have been arranged to prevent untoward incidents,” Mr. Suryanarayana said. Communication was cut off to about 30 villages as water was overflowing on the Kondrajupeta causeway in East Godavari and on Kothuru low-level bridge at Polavaram. “Rice, pulses, medicines, vegetables, generators, kerosene and candles have been kept ready in the ration depots in the flood-affected villages. Village volunteers, VROs, and medical teams are monitoring the situation and helping the victims,” he said. Meanwhile, the Irrigation officials were strengthening the river bund wherever needed to prevent breaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-is-in-spate-for-the-third-time-in-15-days/article32509448.ece
03 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-civic chief dead||Former Chairperson of Srikakulam Municipality Andhavarapu Varaha Narasimham, known as Varam, died of prolonged illness in a private hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday. He was 74 and is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. Varam had been playing a key role in Srikakulam town politics for the last 40 years. He served as the municipal chairperson from 1981-1991 and his daughter was the chairperson between 2000-2005. Varam's support had helped a lot to former Minister Dharmana Prasada Rao to win the Srikakulam Assembly seat in 2019 elections. He was the president for Kalinga Komati Association. He had also served Srikakulam Chamber of Commerce. As a mark of respect, all shops remained closed in Srikakulam on Wednesday. Mr. Prasada Rao and other leaders expressed shock over the death of Varam and recalled their personal association with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-civic-chief-dead/article32509520.ece
03 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government putting lives of students at risk: AISF||All India Students Federation(AISF) strongly opposed conduct of JEE-NEET examinations in spite of the threat from COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh and other places. The students’ organisation staged a protest at Palasa over the issue. CPI leader Chapara Venu alleged that the Union government was playing with the lives of students instead of postponing the exams. Mr. Chapara Venu said that the Union government had completely ignored the requests of the parents, Chief Ministers and public representatives. AISF leaders U.Chandu, K.Naveen and others were present in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-putting-lives-of-students-at-risk-aisf/article32509518.ece
03 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD increases daily online ticket quota by 1,000||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Wednesday took a decision to increase the online quota for Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets issued daily by 1,000. With this, the total number of online darshan tickets issued on a daily basis day has gone up to 10,000. Free tickets unchanged However, the TTD trust board has made no change in the number of dharma (free) darshan tickets being issued under the current booking system across the TTD counters in Tirupati. At present, as many as 3,000 dharma (free) darshan tickets are being issued everyday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-increases-daily-online-ticket-quota-by-1000/article32510041.ece
03 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pavitrotsavam’ concludes at Tiruchanur temple||The three-day ‘Pavitrotsavam’ concluded with ‘Maha Poornahuthi’ at the Padmavathi temple at Tiruchanur on Wednesday. The purification rituals are performed every year to ward off the ill-effects of certain acts done inadvertently by the temple staff or the visiting devotees. ‘Pavitra Samarpana’ rituals were performed on Tuesday, as part of which the deities, shrines and sub-shrines were adorned with sacred garlands made up of silk threads. On Wednesday, the gralands were removed and ‘Shanti Homam’, ‘Kumbha Prokshana’ and ‘Nivedana’ were performed. Offerings were made by the priests to the ‘Homagundam’ on the occasion. In the afternoon, ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ was performed to the processional deities of goddess Padmavathi and Sudarsana Chakra, which was followed by the Chakrasnanam rituals. TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal, Deputy EO Jhansi Rani and were among those who participated in the rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pavitrotsavam-concludes-at-tiruchanur-temple/article32510044.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC bus operations to Telangana hit a roadblock||Officials of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) are trying to break the stalemate with their Telangana counterparts over the issue of “parity of distance” to be able to resume bus operations to the neighbouring State. The standoff on the issue has lasted for some time with the Telangana RTC asking the Andhra Pradesh side to reduce the volume of its operations in Telangana space, while maintaining that it would not increase volume of its Andhra Pradesh-bound buses. Inter-State agreement The inter-State bus services between the two Telugu States is operational on the basis of ad hoc provisions, applicable till the expiry of the permits held by the operators as on the day of the formation of a separate Telangana State. The expiry of most permits has necessitated regularisation of the operations through an inter-State agreement. Though the two sides made an attempt to reach an inter-State agreement by addressing the “parity of operations” issue, the bone of contention for resuming bus services between the two States, during the lockdown period, the discussions ended in a deadlock. As many as 1,009 buses from the fleet of the APSRTC criss-cross the road network in Telangana, covering 2.65 lakh km of distance, while the buses of the neighbouring state cover a distance of only 1.5 lakh km in Andhra Pradesh. The APSRTC has responded to its Telangana counterpart's suggestion that Andhra Pradesh reduce the volume of its operations by 250 buses by suggesting that instead, Telangana could think of increasing the number of its buses travelling to Andhra Pradesh. Unanimity has also eluded on the APSRTC suggestion that it would reduce its operations in Telangana by 52,000 buses and the latter increase the volume by same number of buses to achieve a parity. “They are not ready to cover an increased distance in Andhra Pradesh beyond the current 1.52 lakh km and want us to reduce our space in their state to 1.52 lakh km. This will tantamout to losing a distance of 1 lakh km and it will cause heavy inconvenience to the public,” said an official from the Operations wing of APSRTC. Buses from the APSRTC touch some 100 depots in the neighbouring district. “But they don’t look beyond Vijayawada and a few district headquarters. They don't touch our interior areas,” said the official. While the two transport bodies struggle to find a common ground, the wait gets longer for people eager to use the public transport system to visit their families and friends in the neighbouring State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-bus-operations-to-telangana-hit-a-roadblock/article32510049.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB sleuths raid MRO, Sub-Registrar offices||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids on Mandal Revenue Offices (Tahsildar offices), Sub-Registrar Offices and the Gudur Municipality on Wednesday. The raids were conducted based on the calls received from the public over toll free No. 14400. The ACB teams found huge cash, unauthorised persons in the offices and seized many documents, according to ACB Director-General P.S.R. Anjaneyulu. “In many offices, petitions filed through Spandana and Mee Seva portals were pending and Pattadar Passbooks were seized in some hundreds of numbers during the raids,” the ACB chief said. Raids were conducted on MRO offices in Santhakaviti (Srikakulam district), Balajipeta (Vizianagaram), Kasimkota (Visakhapatnam), Koyyalagudem (West Godavari), Ibrahimpatnam (Krishna), Rajupalem (Guntur), Ulavapadu (Prakasam) and Yemmiganur in Kurnool district. Similarly, surprise checks were conducted on Sub-Registrar offices in Biccavolu ( East Godavari district), Jaggaiahpet (Krishna), Badvel (Kadapa) and Piler (Chittoor district). ACB officials raided on the Town Planning Section in Gudur Municipality in Nellore district, Mr. Anjaneyulu said. In Ibrahimpatnam Tahsildar office, investigation officers found unaccounted cash of Rs. 2.28 lakh from ten employees. The staff received 12,867 applications through Mee Seva, of which 9,990 were approved, 885 rejected without mentioning any proper reason, 1,669 were within the stipulated time, 40 will lapse in 24 hours and 92 are pending beyond the stipulated time (Service Level Agreement mentioned in the Citizens Chart). Passbooks In Balajipeta Tahsildar office, 95 Pattadar Passbooks received from Chennai printing press were kept pending without distributing to the pattadars (land owners/farmers). The Passbook, which has to be distributed in January this year, was not done. In Koyyalagudem Tahsildar office, 13 petitions received through Spandana portal were kept pending beyond the stipulated time and records were not maintained properly. In Biccavolu Sub-Registrar office, the ACB officials seized Rs. 9,780 unaccounted cash from the Sub-Registrar and the staff, Rs. 27,400 cash was seized from the junior assistant and Rs. 32,000 was seized from five document writers. ACB officials were shocked after they found Rs. 7.79 lakh unaccounted cash with two private persons in Piler Sub-Registrar Office. Thirteen document writers were found in the computer room, SRO chamber and other places, the ACB DG said. In Badvel SRO, the Sub-Registrar allegedly engaged two private persons for collecting money for doing official favours. The ACB officials seized Rs.30,790 from the staff, document writers and private persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-sleuths-raid-mro-sub-registrar-offices/article32509523.ece
03 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Smart meters will not burden farmers’||Ajeya Kallam, Chief Adviser to the government, has clarified that smart meters will be set up by Discoms and the power usage charges will be directly transferred into farmers' accounts as per the Central government's draft Electricity Bill, 2020. The Discoms have been given the responsibility to create dedicated bank accounts for the farmers and install smart meters free of cost. Therefore, no burden will be imposed on the farmers, he has asserted. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Kallam said details of the monthly meter readings would be sent to the Finance Department. The amounts would be transferred into the farmers' accounts and the same could be redeemed by Discoms. The Central government has made it clear in the draft Bill that the subsidies given to the farmers should be transferred directly to their accounts. New policy The State government formulated a new policy that fits in with the guidelines of the Central government. Mr. Kallam said while the TDP government had destroyed the power generation at thermal stations and made purchases from the private sector for ‘kickbacks’, the present dispensation cleared pending bills to the Discoms amounting to approximately Rs. 34,385 crore, which include Rs. 20,122 crore that was piled up during the previous regime. Pending bills The government also cleared the pending bills of power utilities to the tune of Rs. 17,904 crore. A sum of Rs. 1,700 crore was being spent on augmenting the infrastructure for implementing the free power scheme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-meters-will-not-burden-farmers/article32510024.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hearing on pleas against review of TDP govt. decisions posted to Sept. 7||The High Court posted to September 7 the hearing on writ petitions filed by TDP leaders Varla Ramaiah and Alapati Rajendra Prasad against the constitution of the Cabinet sub-committee for reviewing the major policies, projects, programmes, institutions and key administrative actions since bifurcation and the setting up of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for the stated purpose. A single-judge bench, comprising Justice T. Rajani, heard the matter and turned down the petitioners' plea for an interim order. The TDP leaders sought a stay on G.O. Nos 1411 and 344 through which the Cabinet sub-committee and SIT were constituted, mainly on the ground that the policy decisions taken by a government cannot be scrutinised by the subsequent government and there is no provision for such a review in the Constitution. They insisted that the executive actions of a government would always be prospective and not retrospective and the people's mandate in favour of the party which comes to power does not include a review or re-examination of policy decisions of the outgoing government. Besides, the impugned GOs lacked a material basis as there was no debate or discussion of the subject in the Assembly preceding their issuance. The government cannot embark on a review of the policy decisions taken before May 30, 2019 when Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took over the reigns as the Chief Minister. The said GOs are, therefore, arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional, the TDP leaders pleaded and maintained that the SIT, a body of police officers, was not competent to probe the policy decisions taken by the previous party in governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hearing-on-pleas-against-review-of-tdp-govt-decisions-posted-to-sept-7/article32510033.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A quiet birthday for Pawan Kalyan||JSP president Pawan Kalyan spent his birthday at home in Hyderabad on Wednesday devoid of any celebration even as greetings poured in on the Twitter from a host of VVIPs, who included his brother Chiranjeevi, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Party cadres, however, kept themselves busy in service activities. A party spokesman said that Mr. Kalyan had given up the habit of celebrating birthday a long time ago, and he did the same again. No one called on him at his residence and he did not venture out either, he added. Meanwhile, his Twitter account was flooded with birthday wishes. Ms. Soundararajan said she was praying for a happy, healthy and successful years for Mr. Kalyan. In his message, Mr. Chiranjeevi said the JSP chief’s heart beats for the masses and though they were two individuals, their goals were the same. Mr. Naidu said that he was praying God to bless Mr. Kalyan with a long and happy life. State BJP president Somu Veerraju wished Mr. Kalyan a long life, and hoped that the BJP-JSP alliance grows into a strong alternative to the “corrupt, family-run parties.” Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar wished Mr. Kalyan a healthy and happy life in the service of people. BJP leaders Sunil Deodhar, Daggubati Purandeswari, G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and K. Laxman, and actor Mohanlal were among those who wished Mr. Pawan Kalyan a happy birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-quiet-birthday-for-pawan-kalyan/article32509836.ece
03 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tweak IT policy to attract investment’||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy has asked the officials of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications (ITE&C) Department to focus on evolving the IT and electronics policy to attract more investments. In a review meeting held at Nellore on video link on Wednesday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the policy should have its focus on promoting the sector in Visakhapatnam which has a tremendous potential. The policy should have provisions for work-from-home culture, he suggested. Besides, the growing demand for broadband connections being offered by AP State Fibernet Limited (APSFL) should be promptly met, the Minister added. Secretary (ITE&C) Y. Bhanuprakash, joint secretary Nagaraja, APSFL MD M. Madhusudhan Reddy, A.P. Technology Services MD M. Nanda Kishore and advisors participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tweak-it-policy-to-attract-investment/article32510037.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reorganisation panel meeting held||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has asked the officials of all the departments to be prepared with all the information as required by the State Committee for Reorganisation of districts. The district administration conducted the district committee meeting to discuss the reorganisation of the district for the first time after the State government proposed the plan. Mr. Imtiaz said that the State had formed for sub-committees and the district committee should extend all cooperation to them. Mr. Imtiaz is the president of the committee while Joint Collector (Rythu Barosa, Revenue) K. Madhavi Latha is appointed convener and district Superintendent of Police, Education Officer, Health and Medical Officer, ZP CEO, Planning Officer and Treasury Deputy Director are the members of the committee. The district committee was asked to prepare all data and information regarding district borders, staff, assets, basic amenities and other aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reorganisation-panel-meeting-held/article32509511.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protect ancient temples at Lepakshi: GVL||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take steps for protection of the Basavanna (monolithic bull) temple at Lepakshi village in Anantapur district from the proposed widening of NH 544-E from Kodikonda check-post to Madakasira via Hindupuram. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Narasimha Rao stated that the road widening project was erroneously designed to pass through the prohibited area of the Basavanna temple due to some lapses in planning and violations of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 2010 (AMASR), and the AP State Public Works Department had been negligent in sorting out the issue. The proposed highway is abutting the compound wall of the monolithic bull and passes by the northern gate of the Veerabhadra Swamy temple. “Both the Basavanna and Veerabhadra Swamy temples are monuments of national importance recognised as world heritage sites,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protect-ancient-temples-at-lepakshi-gvl/article32510031.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date for RIMC admission extended||The entrance examination for the admission to the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, which was scheduled to be held on December 1 and 2, has been postponed owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The last date for submission of application for the examination has also been extended to November 15. A statement issued by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) on Wednesday said that the new dates would be announced later. Meanwhile, a waiver has been granted for submission of application forms without the academic certificates duly signed by the headmaster or principal, domicile certificate issued by respective State authorities (State domicile to be mentioned in the application form) and signature of the headmaster or principal on the form. However, the qualified candidates need to submit the above-mentioned dicuments to the respective States/UTs authorities at the time of viva-voce and also to the RIMC before viva-voce. The APPSC has displayed on websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of candidates provisionally selected for walking test and medical exam for the post of Forest Range Officer in AP Forest Service in 1:3 ratio, against 24 vacancies. The date, time and place of tests would be announced later, said a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-for-rimc-admission-extended/article32510045.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 3.5 lakh COVID tests conducted in Krishna||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that the district’s COVID positivity rate is at 4.81% while the State’s positivity rate is 11.85%. In a release, Mr. Imtiaz said that the district had so far tested 3,52,913 samples and only 16,992 of them turned positive. He said wearing of masks and social distancing measures had yielded results and there was need for the people to continue doing so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-35-lakh-covid-tests-conducted-in-krishna/article32509512.ece
03 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MoU signed for bulk drug park||The Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) entered into an understanding with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) - Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) combine for the promotion of a Bulk Drug Park (BDP) in the State under the BDP scheme of the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. Officials of APIIC and CSIR-IICT signed the MoU during a virtual conference attended by Industries and Commerce Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy and other dignitaries. The MoU is in pursuance of G.O. Ms No. 45 issued on August 26 for joining the race for one of the three BDPs proposed to be established by the Government of India for harnessing the tremendous potential of the country's bulk drug manufacturing sector. Objective A Bulk Drug Infrastructure Corporation is being set up by the State government for creating the necessary facilities while the APIIC has been mandated to submit an application to the government for the project. The objective of the pact is to develop a partnership between the Government of Andhra Pradesh and CSIR-IICT for establishing the BDP with financial support from the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mou-signed-for-bulk-drug-park/article32509445.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||September is crucial, Collector warns staff on pandemic duty||District Collector V. Vinay Chand instructed officials to ramp up their focus on contact tracing and implementation of COVID-19 protocols in containment zones. The Collector held a video-conference with officials on COVID-19 duty in various areas, here on Wednesday. “September is going to be a very crucial month in combating the pandemic. The city is witnessing a large number of COVID-19 cases on a daily basis,” Mr. Vinay Chand said, asking staff to demarcate an area of 200 metres as a containment zone once a COVID-19 case is reported, and to conduct a survey immediately afterwards. Home isolation “Ward secretariat staff should focus on tracing primary and secondary contacts. In the GVMC limits, contact tracing and containment zone mapping has been delayed,” he said. The Collector said that soon, mobile digital X-Ray units will be arranged in the district. The Collector also asked the staff to give priority to people being treated under home quarantine. He asked the staff to take stock of their health situation on a regular basis and shift them to hospital immediately in case they experience a deterioration in symptoms. Joint Collector Govinda Rao, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V Sudhakar and other officials attended the video-conference. 693 new cases The district registered 693 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 38,824. The death toll rose to 271, with six more persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of discharges was higher than the number of new cases, with 746 persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 testing negative for the virus on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the district stands at 6,483 while the number of recoveries stands at 32,070.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/september-is-crucial-collector-warns-staff-on-pandemic-duty/article32510058.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contract nurses seek better pay||Contract Staff Nurses, working at King George Hospital (KGH), Victoria Government Hospital (VGH) and the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), staged a peaceful protest opposite the KGH Superintendent’s Office on Wednesday, demanding removal of anomalies in their pay scales. The nurses who participated in the agitation under the aegis of the Nursing Officers Association of Andhra Pradesh, said that they were performing COVID-19 duties for the past six months, putting their lives at risk on par with regular nurses. It was unfortunate that the pay scales of Staff Nurses, who were recruited recently for COVID-19 duties, was fixed at a higher level, they said. Demanding implementation of the ‘equal pay for equal work’ rule at all government hospitals in the State, they said that they were recruited under the purview of the Directorate of Medical Education and posted to various teaching hospitals five years ago. “We are being paid Rs. 22,500 a month while the wages of Staff Nurses, who were recruited through the A.P. Vaidya Vidhan Parishad for the Directorate of Public Health recently, are fixed at Rs. 34,000 a month. The anomaly in wages is leading to discord among them,” said Jayalakshmi, a representative of the association. “We are working for 8 to 12 hours at a stretch, wearing PPE kits. We appeal to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to come to our rescue. Our services should be regularised as per G.O. 44,” they said. The nurses held placards and staged a peaceful protest. Later, they paid floral tributes to Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy by garlanding his photo on the occasion of his death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contract-nurses-seek-better-pay/article32510051.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Platinum rating for city railway station||The Visakhapatnam Railway Station has bagged the platinum rating of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), securing a total score of 82 points. The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) with the support of the Environmental Directorate of Indian Railways has developed the Green Railway Stations rating system to facilitate adoption of green concepts. The rating is based on six categories, with the maximum points ranging from 6 to 24 in the individual categories. The total maximum score is 100 and stations achieving more than 80 points are given ‘platinum’ rating. Visakhapatnam Railway Station has bagged a total score of 82 points. In the sustainable station facility, the station bagged 22 out of 24 points, 16 out of 21 in the health, hygiene and sanitation module, 15 out of 21 in energy efficiency, 12 out of 16 in water efficiency, smart and green initiatives 12 out of 12 and 5 out of 6 in innovation and development module. The station has bagged the A.P. Tourism Award for 2017, Safaigiri Award for 2018, ISO 14001 award and National Tourism Award for 2019 in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/platinum-rating-for-city-railway-station/article32510053.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Unsegregated waste not to be collected’||Sanitation staff of the GVMC have been instructed not to collect garbage from homes unless it is properly segregated into dry waste and wet waste, according to an instruction from Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana on Wednesday. Ms. Srijana expressed her displeasure over the online waste management system and door-to-door garbage collection in some areas of the city. She also ordered suspension of two sanitation staff who were reportedly found to be negligent in their duties.  Ms. Srijana said that ward secretaries should visit all homes in their area to to create awareness on seasonal diseases. She also instructed additional commissioners to submit a report on garbage generation and segregation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unsegregated-waste-not-to-be-collected/article32510055.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pranab’s death condoled||Faculty members of Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology (Autonomous) expressed their condolences over the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, at a formal condolence meeting held at the institute on Tuesday. Rector of the Institute V. Madhusudhana Rao said that his death was a great loss to the country. “Mr. Mukherjee was a person of commitment and always thought of the welfare of people of India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pranabs-death-condoled/article32510054.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for selling gutkha||The of City Task Force (CTF) arrested a person on charges of selling banned chewing tobacco products on Wednesday. The CTF team raided a house near Pattabhireddy Gardens and arrested T. Srinviasa Rao. The police also seized banned chewing tobacco products worth Rs. 12,290 from the possession of the accused. The arrested person and the seized property handed over to the Kancharapalem police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-selling-gutkha/article32510060.ece
03 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irregularities at Tahsildar’s office detected||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday reportedly unearthed a number of irregularities at the Kasimkota Tahsildar’s office in Visakhapatnam district. The ACB teams conducted surprise checks following instructions from the State Government. . According to the officials, the office has received 1,901 online applications for mutation and title deed-cum-Pattadar pass book from January 1 to September 1 this year. Out of these applications, 941 applications were rejected, but only 47 rejected applications are available for inspection. The ACB officials also reportedly found out that four private persons are unauthorisedly working at the office. Forty-five Pattadar pass books were not handed over to the concerned farmers. During the search, Rs. 23,555 in cash was found stored in a bag inside the safe of a Junior Assistant, while Rs. 3,440 in cash along with three identity cards were found in the wallet of a private computer operator. The cash was seized for further enquiry. The teams also found out that records and registers are not being maintained properly. The ACB will submit a report to the government soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irregularities-at-tahsildars-office-detected/article32510059.ece
03 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cmde Hemant Khatri takes charge of HSL||Cmde Hemant Khatri (Retd.) has assumed charge as CMD of Hindustan Shipyard Limited on Tuesday. Earlier, he was Director (Strategic Projects) in HSL since April 2017 and was in-charge of INS Sindhuvir that was refit ahead of contractual time lines. He also spearheaded the refit of INS Astradharani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cmde-hemant-khatri-takes-charge-of-hsl/article32510034.ece
03 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Actual progress seen during YSR rule’||Leaders of YSR Congress Party said that Vizianagaram had witnessed real development during the rule of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, while hoping that the proposed executive capital at Visakhapatnam would further develop the district. Offering floral tributes to the YSR statue at Venkateswara Theatre junction here on his 11th death anniversary, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana and former chairperson of Vizianagaram Marketing Committee Pilla Vijaya Kumar recalled their personal association with YSR. The party leaders offered floral tributes to YSR’s statues in Gajapathinagaram, Bobbili, Parvatipuram and Nellimarla too. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr.Vijaya Kumar said that Thotapalli irrigation project was given utmost priority during the YSR regime. Praising Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s welfare schemes, S. Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao said that backward class people would now get justice. He thanked the Chief Minister for creating corporations for many sub-castes and hailed the move as one that would pave way to do justice to the neglected sections in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actual-progress-seen-during-ysr-rule/article32509521.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard scare continues to haunt Tirumala||Leopard scare continues to haunt the local denizens and pilgrims visiting the temple town. The movement of a leopard was noticed on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday at the TTD museum on the ring road. The big cat reportedly freely wandered around after spending some time sitting on the parapet wall of the edifice before vanishing into the green and this sent shivers down the spine of the temple staff and devotees. The sighting of the animal was recently reported near Narayanagiri gardens and Padmavati guest house areas. The wild animals straying into the town has been on a rise ever since the COVID-19 lockdown in March. It continued even after June 10, when the public was allowed to visit the temple . The thoroughfares of the town have been sporting a deserted look, particularly after dusk, owing to a few pilgrims coupled with early closure of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-scare-continues-to-haunt-tirumala/article32510040.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joy ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joy-ride/article32510062.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready for inauguration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-for-inauguration/article32509527.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Way to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/way-to-go/article32510036.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Countering the current||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/countering-the-current/article32510047.ece
03 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Collectorate to be ready by Dasara||Work on the much-delayed Integrated Collectorate Complex at the industrial and power generation hub of Palvancha is set to gain pace with the district administration fixing a fresh deadline for its completion by the ensuing Dasara festival next month. Incidentally, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district came into being with Kothagudem as its headquarters on Dasara festival day in 2016 following reorganisation of the districts by the State government. The predominantly tribal populated and coal-rich district was carved out from the erstwhile undivided Khammam district for better administration. The foundation for the Integrated Collectorate complex was laid at Palvancha along the Kothagudem-Palvancha highway at an estimated cost of Rs. 44 crore in April, 2018. After some initial hiccups, the construction of the Collectorate building began on an expeditious note but suffered a major setback due to paucity of funds and shortage of labour during the coronavirus lockdown in the past six months. The delay in construction on the desired lines has reportedly led to escalation of the project’s cost, which is now estimated to be around Rs. 53.75 crore, sources said. Works worth Rs. 25.08 crore of the Integrated Collectorate complex have already been completed and the remaining works worth around Rs. 28.07 crore are in progress, according to official sources. A separate chamber and a residential quarter for the recently sanctioned post of second Additional Collector has been added to the original building design while the earlier proposal to construct a helipad abutting the building complex has reportedly been put on hold owing to financial constraints, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectorate-to-be-ready-by-dasara/article32509838.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Reports of virus sub-strain spreading fast in TS not true’||There is absolutely no truth in some reports that a sub-strain of coronavirus is sweeping and spreading faster across Telangana, clarified CSIR-CCMB director Rakesh Mishra on Wednesday. “The coronavirus ‘A2a’ clade or strain is predominant and is all over the world. It is nothing “stronger or faster” when compared to A3i, which was a weaker clade. It is just that the A2a clade is doing ‘better’ being the only major clade at present and there is ‘nothing new’,” he added. As things stand now, there is nothing to be “alarmed” about the mutations to the COVID-19 virus as these are adhering to the way viruses usually behave. With regard to the “re-infection” reported among a few individuals in the country and abroad, Dr. Mishra said these cases have to be investigated thoroughly through genome sequencing before broad conclusions can be arrived at. “Usually after an infection happens, the human body starts producing antibodies and when the second attack happens, the body’s immune system remembers the parasite organism and takes care to fight. But why this has not happened in these cases as the individuals did not trigger the immune system for some reason has to be studied. Is it because the virus has changed so much that it could infect again in an entirely new ‘avatar’ or is it that the particular person's immunity has not been strong enough and there is some deficiency? We have to check these aspects,” he pointed out. Genome of the virus of these suspected cases of “reinfection” should be sequenced before and after to understand it better, observed the CCMB director. For the moment, however, it is “not a serious problem” with regard to COVID-19 current mutations and this should make the scientists involved in vaccine research and drugs to continue with their current research methodology, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reports-of-virus-sub-strain-spreading-fast-in-ts-not-true/article32509796.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Even after 22 Teacher’s Day, they wait for appointments||Twenty-two Teacher’s Day celebrations have gone by and the 23rd is about to be held, but this group of teachers continues to fight for their dream. The story of ‘1998 DSC merit list’ candidates, who were supposed to be appointed, but allegedly lost appointments to less meritorious candidates due to the ‘corruption’ of officials, is perhaps one of the longest battles for appointments in India. Though the official list, reviewed several times at the Chief Minister’s level, consists 4,310 candidates, 1998 DSC Sadhana Samithi president K. Srinivas says the number is less than 2,000 as many of them have died, moved to other jobs or have reached retirement age during the 23 years’ struggle. Among these, about 600 from four districts have approached the court and have got orders in their favour. “At least these candidates should be considered for employment now as there are clear favourable orders from the Tribunal to the High Court,” says Mr. Srinivas. “Candidates belonging to Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Khammam and Warangal districts moved the court as there was no second list of appointments here unlike other districts.” The controversy over the 1998 DSC appointments arose after two G.Os. were issued — one at the time of actual notification and another after reducing the minimum qualifying scores by five marks in each category. The 1998 DSC Sadhana Samiti argues that officials used these two G.Os. according to their will to accommodate their own candidates. “Manipulation was done in the 15 marks reserved for the Interview part and this was exposed at various levels,” Mr. Srinivas claims. “Our long-drawn struggle resulted in the High Court asking the DEOs of these districts to set right the issue and when the orders were not followed, they were ‘jailed’ for contempt of court. However, that order is challenged and is before a division bench,” Mr. Srinivas says. In fact, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had a detailed discussion on their issue in January 2016 for over two hours and also promised at various platforms that justice would be done to them even if some supernumerary posts had to be created. “There are vacancies as per the officials figures given at various meetings about these four districts,” Mr. Srinivas says. According to him, in Karimnagar 2,333 posts were notified but 1,540 were filled. Similarly, figures in Nalgonda stand at 1,884 notified and 1,613 filled. In Khammam it is 1,710 notified and 1,440 filled up and in Warangal 1,725 were notified and 1,428 were filled. There are clear vacancies and we appeal to the Chief Minister that at least these 600 candidates fighting in the courts should be given postings recognising the merit in their case and the long struggle, members of the Sadhana Samiti say.  Candidates belonging to Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Khammam and Warangal districts moved the court as there was no second list of appointments here unlike other districts.  K. Srinivas 1998 DSC Sadhana Samithi president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/even-after-22-teachers-day-they-wait-for-appointments/article32509815.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||50% dip in dengue cases||Telangana’s figures for dengue and malaria cases from January 1 to August 30 this year is nearly 50% less compared to cases recorded during the corresponding duration in 2019. In the first eight months of 2019, a total of 2,333 dengue and 1,140 malaria cases had been detected. This year, there were 1,177 dengue and 620 malaria cases for those eight months. However, there is reason to be cautious as a sharp rise in dengue cases in the State last year was observed from September. The rising cases kept Health officials on toes for several months. As COVID-19 cases rise unabated, mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya were a major concern, especially after the onset of monsoon and the recent spell of heavy rain in various parts of the State. Mosquitoes, which carry parasites or viruses causing the vector-borne diseases, breed in stagnant water. Close watch Officials of the Health department said that along with COVID surveillance, they have been keeping a close watch on diseases spread by mosquitoes. “When ASHA workers conduct home-to-home surveillance, they enquire about dengue, malaria and other diseases besides COVID-19. Our staff also urged people not to allow water to stagnate in any container in and around their homes. This was to ensure there are no mosquito breeding sites. Besides, spraying and fogging operations were taken up during containment of COVID-19,” said officials. In Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area too, the number of dengue cases is low. From January to August of 2019, 244 dengue cases were detected. The numbers for the corresponding months this year are only 152, which is 68% of last year’s figures. Chief entomologist at GHMC, A. Rambabu said that suspected cases constitute a major share of the numbers. The suspected cases are from private hospitals which used rapid antigen tests instead of the recommended MAC-ELISA. Samples for MAC-ELISA are collected at all Basthi Dawakhanas and Primary Health Centres. Anti-larval operations were taken up from January 2020 when high number of dengue cases continued to be reported. Water hyacinth “As water hyacinth on lakes hinder anti-larval operations, which could lead to mosquito breeding, we took up a survey to identify the issue. Around 39 of the 185 lakes in GHMC have water hyacinth. Measures have been taken to address the issue. Drones are used to perform anti-larval operation on lakes,” Mr. Rambabu said. Three teams with 50 workers headed by two assistant entomologists and two senior entomologists are dedicated to take up the operations around 21 km of Musi river which flows through GHMC. Mr. Rambabu said since people are staying at home for most of the time, personal and environmental hygiene measures taken by people too has helped in keeping the numbers low. The officials said that the ‘10 minutes at 10 a.m.’ campaign every Sunday has helped as well. As part of this initiative, people were encouraged to devote 10 minutes to clear out stagnant water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/50-dip-in-dengue-cases/article32509790.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||37 urban forest parks in the offing||The Forest department is preparing to launch several urban forest parks in and around the city in two phases; December 2020 and March 2021, respectively. Officials from the department shared the possibility with Special Chief Secretary Shanti Kumari during a review meeting on Wednesday. They listed a total of 37 urban forest parks in various stages of development, under HMDA, TSIIC, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, Hyderabad Metro Rail, and Telangana State Forest Development Corporation, besides the Forest department. These are part of a total of 59 such parks being planned within the limits of the HMDA, of which 18 have already been launched. Work for four parks is yet to be started. Urban forest parks are large chunks of forest blocks in the urban sprawl, to protect which, the government has taken the initiative to develop recreational parks in them with corresponding facilities. Ms. Shanti Kumari asked the officials to take interest in protection of these parks that serve as lung spaces for city residents. Progress of the ongoing parks has been reviewed through a presentation, and suggestions were made for mandatory entry plaza, gazebo, view point, and walking path in the first phase. See through walls with chain link fences and trenches too were suggested during the meeting. Depending on the development of the surrounding areas, and number of visitors, children’s play area, yoga sheds, cycling track and information centre may be planned in subsequent phases, officials said. Forest blocks remaining after the development of parks should be retained as conservation zones, with promotion of biodiversity and water sources. Another meeting will be convened to find legal resolution of disputes wherever they exist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/37-urban-forest-parks-in-the-offing/article32509806.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||75,000 2-BHK units will be ready by year-end: KTR||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K.T. Rama Rao has announced that a total of 75,000 double bedroom housing units for the city’s poor will be ready for distribution by the year-end. He revealed this to legislators from the Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency during a meeting conducted with them about the city’s development works at Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday. He reviewed various developmental works in the meeting along with Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and Minister Ch. Malla Reddy, and expressed satisfaction at the road works having been finished taking advantage of the the lockdown time. Each legislator has, during the meeting, apprised the Minister about the works that need to be taken up in the respective constituencies. They expressed happiness at the fast pace of infrastructural projects like SRDP, with special emphasis on LB Nagar crossroads, where a thorough makeover was achieved, a press statement has informed. The legislators made request for graveyards/cremation grounds with all facilities, one for each constituency, and lake development works. They handed over representations for various works to the Minister. Later, the Mr. KTR reviewed the city’s sanitation and other aspects with GHMC zonal commissioners in a meeting attended by Mr. Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar and GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar. He asked the zonal commissioners to take additional measures for improvement of sanitation. He issued directions for construction of public toilets in a large scale by October 2. He asked the officials to expedite the lake beautification works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/75000-2-bhk-units-will-be-ready-by-year-end-ktr/article32509807.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chasing the khaki dream was not an easy task||With dreams in their eyes, realising after strenuous training at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA), the Indian Police Service probationers are raving to service and make their mark. The 28-year-old Ritiraj from Patna, who is allotted to Telangana State, is brimming with confidence as the rigorous training at NPA made her withstand the vicissitudes of professional life ahead. She brings with her the sagacity of jurisprudence with a ‘never say die’ attitude of police training. A strong resolve to make a qualitative difference to the career she is about to step in, Ms. Ritiraj, who goes by the single name, said that there was a paradigm shift in her thinking after judicial and legalistic perspective. She emerged a well-trained probationer enduring long-distance running and developed an attitude of perseverance and grit. An alumnus of National Law University, Delhi, she said that the training at NPA has transformed her into a new person. “Moreover, my District Practical Training with Cyberabad Commissionerate was overwhelming and helped me in understanding various issues,” Ms. Ritiraj told The Hindu . B. Rohit Raju, another probationer hailing from Hasanparthy in Warangal and allotted home cadre, believes that interaction with subordinate officers and showing concern for the welfare of men would help in eliciting cooperation within the department. Son of a retired Assistant Sub-Inspector in Warangal Commissionerate, the 28-year-old said that he knew the nuances of soft power for achieving the objectives of the team. “Getting into IPS doesn’t mean that we are different from others. One must treat their subordinates with respect,” he said, adding that senior IPS officers Soumya Mishra and V.C. Sajjanar, who worked as superintendent of police, Warangal, inspired him to take the ‘risk’ of appearing for Civil Services examination and get into IPS. Meanwhile, it was a long journey for Rupesh Chennuri, who is also a native of Hasanparthy and allotted to Telangana cadre. “I had my school education and polytechnic course in government institutions. I did engineering from KITS, Warangal, and joined the Central Public Works department as a junior assistant, before getting into the uniform service,” he said. Till he got into the CPWD, his father Ramanaiah was an auto driver and his mother Sarojana was a beedi worker. Hyderabadi boy Harshavardhan left his cushy job at an IT company and chased his dream of serving the society. “After completion of my engineering, I worked for an IT company in Hyderabad for three years and later realised that it was not my cup of tea,” he said. Mr. Harshvardhan, who also got allotted to his home State said, “I always wanted to bring a change and contribute to the society. That zeal motivated me to appear for Civil Service examination and join the khaki force.” All the 131 IPS probationers, including 28 women, will graduate from the NPA on Friday. Kiran Shruthi D.V. of Tamil Nadu cadre, has been adjudged the Prime Minister’s Baton and Home Ministry’s Revolver for the best all-round IPS probationer. None of the 11 probationers from TS bagged any trophies this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chasing-the-khaki-dream-was-not-an-easy-task/article32509809.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GST shortfall pushes TS to corner||The revenues of Telangana from GST have plummeted against estimates drawn up by the government under the erstwhile Value Added Tax (VAT) each year since the former regime came into force in the State on July 2017. In the first year, that is, 2017-18, the loss was Rs. 1,135 crore which went up to Rs. 7,566 crore in 2018-19 and then peaked to Rs. 17,248 crore in 2019-20. The loss was already Rs. 8,000 crore, which was 34% of the estimates in the first four months of the current financial year, according to Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. It was precisely the downtrend in tax collections, which the State government was unable to digest as evident from Mr. Rao's despair that Telangana would have been at the top of the table at the national level if it had continued with VAT and not joined the GST regime. True to his words, Telangana ranked first in the country in sales tax - Gross State Domestic Product ratio in 2016-17, a year before GST was implemented. The actual revenue of the State in that year was Rs. 35,231 crore with a growth rate of 22.59%. Telangana was bracketed with Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as States that together exported 70% of goods and services. A year further before, that is, 2015-16, Telangana was sixth in the country with a growth of 17.81% in tax receipts. It pushed Andhra Pradesh to eighth position from sixth in 2014-15. Telangana's revenue from VAT in that year was Rs. 29,846 crore. The revenues nosedived after that, as Mr. Harish Rao says, and the State lost Rs. 26,000 crore from tax revenue since then. The State joined GST for a national cause to ensure tax liberalisation but the Centre dealt it a raw deal. The State paid to the Centre to the tune of Rs. 18,032 crore while getting back as devolution only Rs. 3,200 crore. Telangana had raised concerns during preliminary discussions on GST implementation that it may have to yield its predominant position if it transited to new system but pinned hopes on the Centre coming to its rescue by the Act of Parliament. Now, the State government has blamed Centre for undermining its status as a high revenue-earner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gst-shortfall-pushes-ts-to-corner/article32509823.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fewer containment zones in GHMC even as cases rise||On Wednesday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area had 57 COVID-19 containment zones, down from 92 when the detailed list was added to the medical bulletin on the orders of Telangana High Court. State policy At a time when the number of COVID-positive cases show no decline in Hyderabad, the decline in the number of containment zones is a surprising phenomenon. The State’s own policy issued on April 13 links incidence of cases to containment zones: “Size of the Containment Zone shall depend on the incidence level with an approximate radius of 100 mtrs / 200 mtrs / 500 mtrs and to the extent possible should be co-terminus with existing physical boundaries such as roads etc (sic).” Linked to quarantine, the containment zones are an effective way to track the COVID-19 disease and limit its spread. The number of containment zones in the GHMC area have shown a steady decline — from a peak of 159 on June 3 to 57 on September 1. But how effectively the containment zones policy is being implemented can be seen in other parts of the city. On Monday morning, the Musheerabad Fish Market was pulsating with activity as hundreds of fish mongers, brokers and buyers converged to trade as they have been doing for years. Parked cold storage vehicles, chunks of ice, the flotsam of fish waste and stench didn’t deter them from striking deals. Fishy business “The market opens at 3 a.m. when vehicles from coastal areas and other fish producing centres reach here. It hits a peak at 7 a.m. and by 10 a.m., most of the big traders disappear,” says Viswanath M., who owns one of the big outlets in the open market. But according to the Telangana medical bulletin for the day, the area was a containment zone. In April, when the area was declared as a red zone, trade came to a halt for a few days. On Sunday, the lane outside Janapriya Utopia in Hyderguda buzzed with activity as the weekly market ringed the vast residential complex. The apartment complex is a containment zone, according to the medical bulletin. The bulletin issued on Wednesday dropped Musheerabad Fish Market while the Attapur apartment block remained on the list. In another apartment block in Attapur, this reporter could see house-helps and delivery executives come and go without any hiccup rendering the concept of containment zone redundant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fewer-containment-zones-in-ghmc-even-as-cases-rise/article32509799.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||V&E listed corruption cases brushed under the carpet||Telangana’s Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) department has listed about 660 cases of corruption in different departments and also alerted about 722 cases where there could have been irregularities committed, but not a single case has been taken to the logical end and not a single official has faced punishment in the last six years. Forum for Good Governance (FGG), in its latest expose, informed the media on Wednesday that the ‘serious misconduct’ by government officials and corruption related issues pertaining to various departments were being brushed under the carpet because the head of the departments concerned were not showing importance in taking necessary action. Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said that the corruption cases have been kept pending because of lack of any ‘action taken report’ from the head of the department concerned. “Whenever the director general of vigilance and enforcement sends a report indicting a particular official, the head of the department concerned should take immediate action but there has been no proper disposal of cases. This is directly encouraging corruption,” he maintained. Most of the cases of corruption and irregularities mentioned in the V&E department reports pertain to officials working in the revenue, municipal, Panchayat Raj, irrigation and agriculture departments. Mr. Reddy stated that the chief secretary had been apprised about the pending V&E cases in the past but no action has been forthcoming. While the municipal administration had 139 cases of corruption and 87 cases of alerts, the revenue department has 80 corrupt cases and 267 alert cases, panchayat raj has 79 corrupt cases and 52 alerts, agriculture department has 61 corrupt and 52 alert cases and Irrigation has 52 corrupt and 15 alert cases, as per the report submitted to the government. Corruption cases in labour and food, civil supplies has been low but 101 alert cases in the former and 54 in the latter are notable. Interestingly, education, planning and minorities departments had zero cases in both categories. Therefore, the Forum appealed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to take up the matter with the government for appropriate action as it is giving scope to ‘tainted officials’ to escape punishment and there is ‘no fear of punishment’ among employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ve-listed-corruption-cases-brushed-under-the-carpet/article32509803.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huzurabad, Jammikunta to be made model towns||Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Wednesday called for a comprehensive city development plan to be made for the Huzurabad and Jammikunta municipalities with focus on improving civic amenities and to help transform them into model towns. The Health Minister presided over a meeting held at the Directorate of Municipal Administration. Municipal Administration and Urban Development Secretary Arvind Kumar, DMA N. Satyanarayana, municipal commissioners Rasheed and Jona and chairpersons and vice-chairpersons attedned the meeting. Mr. Arvind Kumar assured the Health Minister that he would soon hold a meeting with all the officials concerned of various departments and also would tour both towns next week to prepare the comprehensive development plan so that visible progress could be achieved within the next six months. On the anvil Central lighting system, drinking water pipeline network, underground sewage network, footpaths, integrated markets for vegetables and non-vegetable items like chicken, mutton, fish, crematoria, dumping yards, beautification of lakes and lakefronts, ring road etc., were on the anvil, Mr. Eatala Rajender said. The Minister claimed that both towns were very dear to him and the main roads had been improved and Rs. 40 crore was sanctioned for piped drinking water supply. When he was finance minister, he had sanctioned Rs. 50 crore and Rs. 40 crore, respectively, for improving basic services in both towns. These funds should be spent and if necessary, more funds would be provided so that the towns were well planned, clean, green and tidy, the Minister said. Jammikunta municipal council chairman Rajeshwar Rao and vice-chairman Swapna, Huzurabad municipal council chairman G. Radhika and vice chairman Nirmala were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-jammikunta-to-be-made-model-towns/article32509819.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana People’s Assembly from September 4 to 7||Several NGOs and citizens’ groups have come together to organise an online ‘Telangana People’s Assembly’ between September 4 and 7 as a prelude to the State Legislative Assembly meetings scheduled to start from September 7. The Assembly will serve as an autonomous and parallel space for raising various issues affecting people of the State, in the context of the elected representatives and appointed ministers being barely in a position to independently raise issues or discuss problems with people’s organisations, a statement about the Telangana People’s Assembly informed. Ever since the formation of Telangana as separate State in 2014, there has not been any meaningful discussion in the State Assembly, and with a few exceptions, the voices of the opposition parties too have become progressively weak, the statement observed. On the other hand, there have been increasing restrictions on people’s organisations and movements, and the government has been attempting to stifle all forms of democratic dissent, in extreme cases, even by levelling false allegations and cases against leaders and cadres of these organisations. While an acute economic crisis has been brewing and getting worse across the country over a few years, hitting people from the most marginalised sections hard especially during the COVID-19 period, the lockdown has revealed how authoritarian regimes have become further strengthened in terms of a series of anti-poor policy decisions that were formulated and implemented with barely any public consultation and discussion, the statement noted. The Telangana People’s Assembly to be organised on Zoom platform, will raise and discuss the real issues and bring out the demands from various sectors. Based on the discussions and concrete demands emerging from this process, a comprehensive Telangana People’s Charter will be compiled and shared with the representatives of various political parties. Topics to be discussed in the People’s Assembly include Employment and Workers’ Rights, Natural Resources and People’s Rights, Agriculture & Rural Livelihoods, Social & Food Security, Health and Education, Rights of Marginalised Sections, and Challenges to Democratic Rights. National Alliance of People’s Movements, Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch, Dalit Bahujan Front, Human Rights Forum, Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika, Rythu Swarjya Vedika, and other organisations are part of the team organising the event. More details may be obtained by contacting the numbers 9912928422 or 9441661192 or through mail to prajaassembly.telangana@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-peoples-assembly-from-september-4-to-7/article32509834.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nod to Rs. 50 lakh insurance||Families of two healthcare professionals who contracted COVID-19 and died would receive the Rs. 50 lakh insurance from Central government. Officials in the Health department confirmed that the amount is approved and said the process to get the approval for other such professionals is under way. Around 80,000 to one lakh healthcare professionals in the Telangana Health department are involved in the COVID-19 services for the past six months. Of them, over 2,000 have contracted the infection and at least 14 have succumbed to the virus. At present, the insurance amount is approved for a head nurse from Government General and Chest Hospital, Earragadda, and a staff nurse from Jangaon. Both of them contracted COVID and succumbed to it. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said the process of getting the insurance amount for more healthcare professionals who died is under process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nod-to-rs-50-lakh-insurance/article32509791.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Must collectively find answers to balance data, ethics and governance, says KTR||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Wednesday said that he has ‘no ready answer’ in connection with striking a balance between data, ethics and governance, but batted for a collective approach and responsibility to deal with the issue. Mr Rao was speaking at NASSCOM’s XperienceAI Summit where he also released the NASSCOM and EY report on ‘Can Enterprise Intelligence be Created Artificially?’ even as he described AI as a tool which helps him to make smart choices, and decisions based on smart predictive modelling. In conversation with Keshav Murugesh, vice-chairman of WNS Global Services, during a session on ‘IT is Now About Intelligence Technology’, the IT Minister responded by invoking the Property 360 initiative, which he said was criticised by certain sections. He said the initiative would generate an actionable report in case of possible leakages. For instance, the initiative was intended to identify cases in which commercial property tax was being paid for a property, and for said property, the electricity bill payment not in the commercial category was being made. “While motives and intentions were for the best, there has to be procedure,” he said, adding that he has no ready answer and that ‘we have to find answers collectively’. Mr Rao said artificial intelligence can be leveraged in Telangana through a six-pronged approach — data, skilling, innovation and research and responsible adoption of AI, segmented approach, and funding and partnerships. He said governments have to leverage large datasets available with them, share them and create exchange platforms. The government has created an open data policy for the State and that data from 18 government departments is available for use. He also pointed out that AI computing requires ‘heavy-duty’ computing but noted available infrastructure is not up to the mark for which government, industry and academia must come together. In a separate session, IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan also batted for the government providing data as a service to stakeholders, and facilitating data exchange.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/must-collectively-find-answers-to-balance-data-ethics-and-governance-says-ktr/article32509793.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi decries dropping of Question Hour||Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday sought to know from Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla why an all-party meeting was not called ahead of suspending Question Hour in the next Lok Sabha session. The omission of the question hour came to light after the Lok Sabha Secretariat reportedly released the schedule for the Monsoon Session of Parliament on Wednesday. The session is scheduled to begin on September 14. In a string of tweets, Mr Owaisi said, “Even during exceptional situation of 1962 India-China war, Question Hour was suspended only after All Party Meeting (APM). In this case @PMOIndia didn't hold an APM. When Standing Committee meetings are being held & even #JEENEET, why not an APM to consult us before Parliament?” Mr Asaduddin Owaisi suggested a single-day sitting for questions in Parliament and stated that the government could answer unstarred questions. “There's a requirement for 15 days' notice period for questions & I request that questions from members be accepted starting today so that the House can take up questions well within time. It's also your discretion to reduce the notice period u/r 33 of LS Rules of Procedure (sic),” he tweeted. In another tweet, he said, “Hon'ble @loksabhaspeaker sir separation of powers is part of basic structure of Constitution. Parliament has the power & duty to question the govt. We're elected to ask questions & hold the govt accountable. A session that takes up only govt business prevents us from doing so (sic).” The session on tabling private members bill too had been reportedly dropped in the upcoming session. In recent past, Mr Owaisi had criticised using facial recognition technology and had announced his intention of moving a private member's bill against it in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-decries-dropping-of-question-hour/article32509818.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘State will get sufficient urea’||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy met his Cabinet colleague and Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Sadananda Gowda to discuss the issue of supply of fertilizers to Telangana during the agriculture season in New Delhi on Tuesday. He was informed that the projected requirement of the State for the entire kharif season was 10 lakh metric tonnes. The requirement from April 1 to Aug.31 was 8 lakh MTs against which 10.17 lakh MTs, including the opening stock of 4.01 lakh MTs, was ensured by the Ministry concerned. From April 1 to August 31, the sales of urea had been 8.68 lakh MTs as compared with the 5.09 lakh MTs during the corresponding period last year. Despite this unprecedented high demand for urea this season, the availability had remained comfortable, Mr. Gowda said. For August, against the projected requirement of 2.50 lakh MTs, the fertilizers department had ensured availability of 4.52 lakh MTs (including opening stock of 2.67 lakh MTs). The stock of urea available as on August 31 in Telangana was 1.49 lakh MTs, he said. For this month, against the requirement of 2 lakh MTs, 2.10 lakh MTs had been allocated and imported urea vessels were lined up and expected to reach the ports feeding TS in a fortnight. Mr. Gowda assured Mr. Reddy that the fertilizers department would onitor the requirements of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-will-get-sufficient-urea/article32509821.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bids to be invited soon for new Secretariat||The Roads and Buildings department is gearing up to invite tenders for construction of the new Secretariat complex soon. The department, in consultation with the architects, Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects, has completed preparation of the estimates required for the new complex. “Tenders will be invited this week,” a senior R&B official told The Hindu . The development follows the consent given by the State Cabinet at its meeting early this month for Rs. 400 crore proposed to be spent on the state-of-the-art new complex which will have several unique features. Accordingly, the department has asked the architects to prepare estimates and bills relating to the quantities of all items which go into a building and the same was submitted to the department last week. In the meanwhile, the department had speeded up the process for obtaining necessary clearances before formally calling for tenders. It had secured the approval of the Airports Authority of India for the construction of the new complex. Though the Begumpet airport lying in the vicinity is not being used for commercial operations, clearance of the AAI was required as operation of flights was continuing from the old airport. The department had applied for clearances of the Pollution Control Board, Fire and Civic departments. Since a majority of clearances are within the purview of the State, obtaining them will not be a problem. The salient features of the legislations relating to protection of lakes, WALTA and others are being studied, in association with the Law department, not to give scope for any legal hurdles in the process. “We have kept on hold the tender process till the clearances are received so as to avoid scope for any complications in future,” the official said. The Environment Impact Assessment authority too had given its go-ahead for the construction of the new complex, thus clearing the way for the construction of the new complex. The government, it may be recalled, has insisted that modern technology should be utilised as far as possible so that the construction of the close to seven lakh sq.ft complex with seven floors can be completed within 10 months. The R&B department has, accordingly, prepared an action-plan on the commencement of works stage-wise after the tenders are finalised. The department is anticipating that the number of bidders would be low given the magnitude of the work involved and it has appointed a retired superintending engineer exclusively to supervise the construction process and submit reports on the progress to the government on a weekly basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bids-to-be-invited-soon-for-new-secretariat/article32509824.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||YSR will be in hearts of people forever, say Congress leaders||Congressmen paid rich tributes to Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy on his death anniversary on Wednesday stating that his legacy will continue to inspire Congress workers and his contribution to the development of combined Andhra Pradesh will never be forgotten. Former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah, MLA T. Jagga Reddy, TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi, city Congress president Anjan Kumar Yadav and others paid floral tributes to Rajasekhara Reddy’s statue in Panjagutta and at Gandhi Bhavan remembering his services. Mr. Jagga Reddy said the late Chief Minister will live in the hearts of poor people forever due to his schemes – Arogyasri and fee reimbursement for all sections. He brought corporate medicare to the doorsteps of the poor through the 108 and 104 ambulance services and free medicare at all corporate hospitals. Those services are now diluted with the government not paying money to the hospitals and so is the fee reimbursement scheme, which is totally neglected. He said no one can snatch away his legacy from Congress as the late leader was a Congressman to the core and spent his entire life in the party. Former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah said he is proud to work in the Cabinet of Rajasekhara Reddy, who he said, was responsible for the infrastructure of Hyderabad. The airport, Outer Ring Road, PV Expressway and the Metro Rail are all his contributions to Hyderabad while the IT sector saw a huge fillip during the Congress regime. Mr. Lakshmaiah also said during Rajasekhara Reddy’s tenure 30 irrigation projects were started to utilise the assured Godavari and Krishna waters. He also started 500 MW power project in Bhupalapally for the first time in Telangana after 1947. Mr. Mallu Ravi and TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayan Reddy said his popularity among masses is unmatched and his contribution to the development of Hyderabad is being enjoyed by the present rulers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ysr-will-be-in-hearts-of-people-forever-say-congress-leaders/article32509833.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Short film contest on pedestrian safety||Each passing day, increasing road accidents have become a major concern, said Cyberabad DCP (Traffic) S.M. Vijay Kumar. Majority of people dying or getting injured in the accidents are pedestrians, he said. Mr. Kumar said that Cyberabad police were putting a lot of efforts to make the Commissionerate an accident-free zone. “In the process, we are conducting a contest on creating a short film on Pedestrian Safety Awareness,” he said, requesting all innovative and enthusiastic professionals and the general public to participate in large numbers and submit films. The video length should be anywhere between 60 and 120 seconds. “It shouldn’t exceed two minutes in total length, including credits. Any video exceeding 120 seconds will be disqualified from the contest,” the DCP said. Top three winners will get a cash price of Rs. 50,000, Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 20,000. For more information, contact 9000257058 or ad@scsc.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/short-film-contest-on-pedestrian-safety/article32509810.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 1 kg gold seized from tainted tahsildar’s relative||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday opened the bank locker of tainted tahsildar Erva Balraju Nagaraju’s relative and found 1.53 kg gold ornaments worth Rs. 57.6 lakh. The gold was seized and would be deposited in the special court for ACB cases, Hyderabad. “On July 14, we found a bank locker key at Balraju Nagaraju’s house during searches. It is registered in the name of G.J. Narender, a relative of the tahsildar,” ACB officials said. Balraju Nagaraju was arrested by ACB for accepting a bribe of around Rs. 1.10 crore. He is presently lodged in Central Prison, Chanchalguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-1-kg-gold-seized-from-tainted-tahsildars-relative/article32509812.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fake vigilance official arrested by Task Force team||A 30-year-old man, who had tricked several persons into parting with nearly Rs. 4 crore, promising to provide them government jobs, was arrested at Karimnagar by police on Tuesday. The accused Domala Ramesh used to claim himself to be specially appointed ‘District Civil Court Vigilance Officer’ and roam around in a car with ‘judicial department’ sticker pasted on it. “He created several fake documents and papers about his appointment as vigilance officer. He would convince people that there were only two such posts and he is in-charge for entire south India,” Karimnagar Police Commissioner V.B. Kamalasan Reddy said. Through his brother-in-law Nagaraju, he approached workers of Singareni Collieries in Godavarikhani. Making false promises of providing jobs of lower cadre in courts and other departments, he collected money ranging from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. Ramesh hails from Manikyapur of Warangal Urban district. On a tip-off, Karimnagar Task Force team lead by Inspectors R. Prakash and Shashidhar Reddy picked him up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-vigilance-official-arrested-by-task-force-team/article32509816.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Improved show by NMDC||Public sector mining major NMDC has posted an increase of 15% in iron ore production and 20% in sales in August compared to the same period last year. While the production last month was 1.62 million tonne as against the 1.41 MT in August 2019, sales totalled 1.79 MT (1.49 MT). Chairman cum Managing Director Sumit Deb said 2020 is a difficult year but Overcoming difficulties “NMDC has managed to overcome difficulties and perform better. Despite the global pandemic and heavy rainfall in the Chhattisgarh, we have managed to outgrow our performance over last year,” said the Chairman cum Managing Director . A release from NMDC said the Bailadila projects at Chhattisgarh produced 1.01 MT in August (0.79 MT), which is a growth of 28%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/improved-show-by-nmdc/article32509832.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dual Apprenticeship programme launched||ALPLA India in collaboration with Confederation of India Industry, Telangana and the State government’s Department of Technical Education on Tuesday launched a Dual Apprenticeship programme at its plant in Pasha Mylaram here. Under this intervention, nine diploma students who have been taken as apprentices will be trained in dual education model, which is more popular in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, a release from CII-TS said. Commissioner-Technical education Navin Mittal said that practice-based learning is important for diploma and engineering students. The pilot project of the CII and ALPLA is a great blend of practical and theory learning. Noting that Indian education system needs many such initiatives, he urged CII to propagate the concept and convince more companies to come on board. A team from ALPLA, Austria, also joined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dual-apprenticeship-programme-launched/article32509801.ece
03 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DGP conducts aerial survey||Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy conducted an aerial survey of Asifabad Kumaram Bheem, Adilabad and Mancherial districts on Wednesday. Accompanied by Ramagundam Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana and Adilabad SP Vishnu S. Warrior, the DGP examined areas where movement of CPI(Maoist) squads was reported recently. Mr. Reddy flew to Asifabad in the morning by helicopter and conducted extensive aerial survey of the districts. A series of meetings with officers of Asifabad district were held. The DGP would stay back at Asifabad on Wednesday night. He is likely to visit other parts and review the measures to check the movement of left wing extremists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dgp-conducts-aerial-survey/article32509817.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More online RTA services||Renewal of driving licences, change of address in licences, new learning licences and the likes of up to six services can be done online without running around the Road Transport Authority offices, said Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar on Wednesday. Transport Commissioner M.R.M. Rao informed that about 11 services have been made online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-online-rta-services/article32509804.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IIIT Tech Venture Partners invests in two start-ups||IIIT Technology Venture Partners, which focuses on investing in early-stage start-ups, has invested Rs. 20 lakh each in Dave.AI and Stack Finance. “We are very happy to jointly invest along with Mumbai Angels and GHV Accelerators in Dave.AI as we see the start-up playing a critical role in the new world where retail industry will transform completely and companies like Dave.AI will be a game-changer,” said co-founder and partner at IIIT Technology Venture Partners Viiveck Verma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iiit-tech-venture-partners-invests-in-two-start-ups/article32509802.ece
03 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nacharam SI, two constables suspended||Nacharam sub-inspector Shivakumar and constables E. Ramulu and M. Ashok were suspended by Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh M. Bhagwat on charges of misconduct. They exhibited gross misconduct by demanding and accepting bribe from accused for helping them in noxious offence of storing banned gutkha products. The Rachakonda police asked citizens to inform on 9490617111 WhatsApp in case there is any illegal demand by any policeman while discharging duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nacharam-si-two-constables-suspended/article32509813.ece
03 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||SI suspended||B. Ramu, who was sub-inspector at Kohir, was suspended by Nizamabad Inspector-General of Police Shiva Shankar Reddy after an inquiry on the charge of indulging in anti-social activities and encouraging betting houses, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/si-suspended/article32509829.ece
03 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Oustees asked to vacate in ‘2 weeks’||The days of emotional relationship of the oustees of Erravalli and Singaram in Kondapaka mandal with their villages are numbered. District Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy on Tuesday held a review meeting with officials on the issue. At the meeeting, the officials were asked to ensure that the oustees vacated the villages in two weeks, it was learnt. These two villages, along with five others, would get submerged by the Mallannasagar project once it was completed. These two are among the few villages that had fought for heir rights and demanded compensation under the Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act- 2013). The villagers had even gone on relay hunger strike for several days. However, repeated trips to courts and delayed compensation seemed to have made them give up. About two weeks ago, the Collector held a meeting with villagers of Erravalli and asked them to vacate, stating they would be provided with alternative accommodation at Mutrajpally Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony near Gajwel. However, the villager rejected the offer, saying they were yet to receive some compensation and would not vacate till then. Even a resolution was passed and sent to the Collector At the review meeting, the Collector said that under the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, they had constructed R&R Colony. Each house would cost Rs. 30 lakh in the open market, which was double the price of what the oustees had lost in their native villages, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-asked-to-vacate-in-2-weeks/article32509826.ece
03 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Hollowness’ of works at R&R colony comes to the fore||Singam Ramesh, a farmer of Thanedarpally village in Mulugu mandal, had to forgo his one acre land and a house for the Kondapochammasagar reservoir. He got due compensation. As his village got submerged under the reservoir, he was forcibly vacated from the village along with others. The authorities had mobilised a huge police force in March despite lockdown being in force and they were shifted to a Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony located at Tunkibollaram. Almost after six months, on August 31, Ramesh decided to expand his house and construct another room for one of his sons staying with him. However, he was in for a huge shock as the works began. Ramesh got the open area adjacent to his house dug using a drilling machine for constructing the additional room. After digging for some depth, the mud caved in and the area became completely hollow. “As the entire basement became hollow, we have to fill it with concrete before starting work on the room. We are the only ones who took up this work and were able to know that the basement was hollow. We do not know about the others as no one else has started any building activity,” Singam Raju, brother of Ramesh told The Hindu . “We were stunned seeing the hollow basement. It will cost us more now as we have to fill the basement with concrete before taking up any construction activity,” said Ramesh’s son Swamy. This is not the first time such complaints are being made by the oustees. In the past also, basements caving in when repair works were taken up have been reported by the oustees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hollowness-of-works-at-rr-colony-comes-to-the-fore/article32509837.ece
03 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Palm leaf plates an alternative: Harish||Finance Minister T Harish Rao said that plates made with palm leaves were better alternative to single-use plastic and their use was environment-friendly. Mr Harish Rao formally launched palm leaf plates made by Siddipet-based JP Eco Manufacturers here on Wednesday and congratulated Pramod Yadav, a resident of the town who manufactured them. These plates, cups and spoons can be changed as compost and used for plants again. This can he fed as fodder like to animals, according to Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/palm-leaf-plates-an-alternative-harish/article32509828.ece
03 September 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘Ashamed for not raising doctor vacancy issue earlier’||“Hospital administration across Telangana is in a failed state. The aspiration that resources would be distributed equally among everyone in a separate Telangana has also failed,” said Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. He opened up about his visits to various districts and his understanding about how hospitals are being administered, particularly during the COVID-19 crisis. Speaking to reporters outside the Government General Hospital here on Wednesday, Mr. Vikramarka, donning a personal protective equipment, said the situation of Suryapet hospital was no different than that of the others in the State. “While elected leaders continue their businesses, such as in real estate in Suryapet, the poor are left in the lurch,” he added. He said almost all hospitals in the State are understaffed and lack required facilities. “For a sanction of 518 nurses here, all are vacant. The department of general medicine has 12 doctors for the sanctioned strength of 48. And yet, the poor are sent to these hospitals,” he remarked. Mr. Vikramarka, while demanding that the government immediate fill up the posts, said: “I feel vashamed, as a legislator and the CLP leader, that I did not criticise the government regarding vacancies in hospitals in the past six-and-a-half years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ashamed-for-not-raising-doctor-vacancy-issue-earlier/article32509800.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Century-old tree uprooted in rain||A century-old peepal tree on Travellers’ Bungalow road was uprooted owing to the incessant rain and gale in Ongole on Wednesday. A large number of people gathered near the tree. They said the tree had been an integral part of the social life. People from far and near used to worship the tree daily. While many other trees faced the axe in the city over the years for various reasons, this one had been guarded by the denizens owing to the sentiment attached to it, said A. Srinivasulu, a resident from the nearby area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/century-old-tree-uprooted-in-rain/article32509835.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Have to learn to live carefully rather than close everything’||At a time when new COVID-19 cases in the city are increasing, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Manish Sisodia told The Hindu that more people will die of depression than the virus if the economy is not opened up. He also talked about the financial implications of the pandemic, Centre’s GST dues to States, and continuation of welfare schemes. The Delhi government is opening more sectors despite an increase in COVID-19 cases in the city. Don’t you think this is dangerous for the people? We have to learn to live carefully, rather than closing everything. If we close everything, then more people will die sitting at home than people who will die from corona. More people will die because of depression. We have to see the practical aspects and not theoretical. Theoretical is that there is a pandemic, so sit at home. Practical is that, if people sit at home for two-three months, people will not have anything to eat, then the number of deaths due to it will be more than due to novel coronavirus. Will the govt. continue welfare schemes such as free electricity and water, and free bus rides for women? We have been continuing it and these schemes will continue. Will the government go forward with its plan for free metro rides for women? Now the metro is closed. Let us see after it opens. Excise is a good revenue source for the Delhi government. When will you allow bars to reopen? Currently, there is no restriction by the Centre for bar counters. For Delhi, we will have to decide how much we need to open up. What is the financial situation of Delhi? The situation is very bad in Delhi. Tax revenue collection is down by 57% compared to estimated collection. How can you pay the salaries with this income? We have to pay salaries to teachers, doctors, and other staff. We have never seen a situation like this. At this point, forget about future plans, we do not have enough money to spend for most essential expenses. But no major government scheme has been affected till now. What is the impact of GST on the current financial situation? Since GST, there has been no growth in the economy. GST implementation has not happened properly, it is bad. ITC matching has not been sorted, HSN code is very far in the future. All these things were promised, but all these measures have not been done. The problem with VAT was that for something being produced in Rajasthan and being sold in Nagaland, the ITC returns would take years, there was no ITC matching. Rajasthan would be working in one software, Nagaland in another. GST was brought to fix these problems, but the whole GST system has been running for the past three years in ad hoc measures. The Centre has failed in implementing the GST system. What is happening with GST compensation to States? They [Central government] are saying that the State governments should take loan. The Centre not compensating the States is illegal, unconstitutional and impractical. In the 10th GST Council meeting, the Secretary of the Finance Ministry said that the Centre could raise resources by other means for compensation and this could be then recouped by continuation of cess beyond five years. In the 7th meeting, the chairman observed that there was constitutional commitment for the Centre to provide 100% compensation (to the States). These were said when the Act was being drafted. Now they are saying that it is not possible. This is unconstitutional. It has become a khichdi . What will you do if the Central government does not accept the demands? I hope that all States will make sure that these unconstitutional proposals by the Centre are rejected. The Centre should borrow from the market and give it to the public account fund, which can then be transferred to the States. During lockdown, tax was hiked on diesel and later rolled back. Will there be any such measures in the future? The hike was a temporary measure for the lockdown period. We are big advocates of “lower the taxes, better the compliance”. I doubt that any tax increase at this point will help. I personally believe that plugging the loopholes in implementation [of Goods and Services Tax] should be the first priority. For instance, among 15,000 large traders, 9,000 odd have not filed GST returns to the government for Q4 of last year, which was a normal year. If the GST systems are proper, then we could fix it in a matter of minutes. There is a slowdown, but I still feel that without raising tax, we can raise more money by fixing the issues. How are you planning to boost tax revenue collection? Fixing loopholes is the main way. We cannot raise taxes when the economy is at -23%. It would be a stupid idea to increase tax. During lockdown, financial assistance was given to vulnerable groups such as drivers and construction workers. Will such schemes continue? Right now I do not have money to pay salaries. But we are opening up markets by being careful of health concerns. Do you think VAT was better than GST? VAT system had a lot of problems due to inter-State trade. Goods and services tax is a better idea. But you have to make systems to implement it. The Central government did not make these systems and are now blaming “act of god” [the pandemic] for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/have-to-learn-to-live-carefully-rather-than-close-everything/article32509715.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Indian Air Force has 110 female pilots’||Rebutting its depiction in Netflix movie Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl , the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday said it has 1,625 female officers (excluding medical and dental branches), out of which nine are fighter jet pilots, 50 helicopter pilots, and 51 transport pilots. The IAF added that it has always encouraged and ensured a work culture which is gender-neutral. In its plea before the High Court, the IAF highlighted many female officers who became part of important historical events by actively participating in combat and supporting roles. In August 1966, Flight Lieutenant Kanta Handa, an IAF medical officer, became the first female IAF officer to receive a commendation for her service during the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war. Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena and Flight Lieutenant Sreevidya Rajan were among the first women to fly in a combat zone during Kargil War. In 2012, In 2015, the IAF opened new combat air force roles for women as fighter pilots, adding to their role as helicopter pilots in the IAF. “This establishes that the IAF is committed to provide a healthy work atmosphere to all its female members and has always been encouraging its officials and promoting them to serve the nation purely based on their merit, despite of their gender,” the IAF said. ‘Kept in the dark’ The IAF said that the film-makers had approached it on the pretext that the film was based on the actual life of an IAF officer. However, the film-makers kept the IAF “in the dark about the real intent of the movie”, which was to show the IAF “in negative light based on misleading, manipulative facts”. The IAF also stated that the film-makers “avoided entering into a formal agreement i.e. a Memorandum of Understanding with it. This, the IAF said was not only a pre-requisite under the 2013 guidelines but the ‘in-principle’ approval accorded to the film-makers was at all times subject to the execution of the said MoU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/indian-air-force-has-110-female-pilots/article32509709.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA holds MPD-2041 meet with stakeholders||At an online meeting held on Wednesday, around 120 people, including members of several resident welfare associations, interacted with officials of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) over the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi 2041. Lack of access to basic facilities, congested roads and legality of properties were some of the issues put forth by the participants, officials said. “Participants were requested to share their suggestions towards the registration process as well as give ideas toward area improvement and redevelopment in unauthorised colonies. The concerns highlighted were mainly about lack of access to basic services of water and sanitation and other facilities in their locality,” DDA officials said. The urban body added, “Other issues raised included legality of their properties, narrow access roads, congestion, conflicts between commercial and residential uses, quality of drinking water, waterlogging and so on. A common concern expressed by most participants was regarding vulnerability and risks related to disasters, such as fire, earthquake and so on.” As part of a public engagement strategy, the DDA had organised the online meeting to interact with stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-holds-mpd-2041-meet-with-stakeholders/article32509711.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||AUD launches application process for PG admissions||Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) on Wednesday launched the application process for admission to postgraduate programmes for academic session 2020-21. The last date for registration the varsity said will be September 30. “All eligible applicants are informed that the registration process for the postgraduate programmes will be completely online for all categories. The details of registration process and subsequent procedures are provided in the ‘Bulletin of Information’, which is available online and can be downloaded,” the university said. The university offers 20 postgraduate programmes that offer 879 seats in total. Of these, 15 programmes are in Kashmere Gate Campus, three in Karampura Campus and two in Lodhi Road campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aud-launches-application-process-for-pg-admissions/article32509710.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||60-year-old paralysed man run over by train||A 60-year-old man died after he was run over by a train at Sewa Nagar railway station on Wednesday, the police said, adding that he was paralysed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra Singh confirmed the incident and said that the deceased has been identified as Bhaiya Lal. A senior police officer said that Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station received an information regarding a body at Sewa Nagar station. When the police reached the spot, they found Lal’s body on the tracks. “Enquiry revealed that he was partially paralysed and used to go for morning walks every day near the tracks,” the officer said. The police said that he is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter and the family has not suspected any foul play so far. “The body has been sent to Sabzi Mandi mortuary for post-mortem,” the officer said, adding that inquest proceedings have been initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/60-year-old-paralysed-man-run-over-by-train/article32509713.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for stealing at employer’s house||A 26-year-old man, Mantu Yadav, has been arrested for allegedly stealing jewellery from his 80-year-old employer Kamal Kumar’s house in south Delhi’s G.K., the police said on Wednesday. During investigation, it was revealed that Mantu was hired recently and he did not share his personal details. The complainant, who urgently needed a help, hired him pending police verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-stealing-at-employers-house/article32509716.ece
03 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan increases beds with oxygen facility||Following a continuous surge in the COVID-19 cases, four times more beds in the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) Hospital here are being equipped with high-flow oxygen for facilitating prompt treatment of serious patients. The State has at present recorded over 14,500 active cases. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said on Wednesday that a new care centre with 100 beds would also be set up at the RUHS Hospital for COVID-19 patients. A similar facility with 25 beds equipped with oxygen and 75 infection care beds is being developed at the private sector National Institute of Medical Sciences here. With the top priority given to saving the lives of patients, the process for recruitment of community health officers (CHOs) has been initiated once again in the State to overcome the shortage of manpower during the pandemic. Mr. Sharma said a total of 6,310 CHOs would be appointed.  CM reviews situation Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also reviewed the position of COVID-19 infection through videoconferencing here on Wednesday and gave instructions for strengthening the resources and ensuring the availability of medicines, testing facility and plasma therapy to the patients in all districts. Mr. Gehlot laid emphasis on encouraging the patients to donate plasma after their recovery. Principal Secretary (Medical & Health) Akhil Arora has issued a circular laying down the guidelines for containing the spread of the infection in the villages and small towns. Separate out-patient departments are being created for the probable COVID-19 patients at the block-level community health centres with the facilities of testing, referral transport and oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-increases-beds-with-oxygen-facility/article32509750.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||State extends bed reservation in private hospitals by three months||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to give three months extension to the decision of reserving 80% beds in all private and trust-run hospitals in the State for COVID-19 and other patients, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. The revised notification has included rates of oxygen cylinders as well to ensure no separate charge for the same is applied to patients. Hospitals cannot charge more than Rs. 600 for PPE kits used in general ward and Rs. 1,200 for that being used ICUs or areas with ventilator. “Hospitals will have to submit an explanation for charging more money than the prescribed rates,” Mr. Tope said. While the notification specifies that any bill from the hospital will be approved by an appointed treasury officer, patients can submit their complaints to complaints.healthcharges@jeevandayee.gov.in. Mr. Tope said the compulsion of keeping 80% beds reserved under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Control Act, Bombay Charitable Trust and Bombay Nursing Home Act will control the medical expenses and ensure beds to COVID-19 patients. As per the notification, the district collector is authorised to reserve beds in areas other than the municipal corporations, while in those areas the municipal commissioner will be the authority. At the State level, the chief executive officer of the State Health Assurance Society will be the authority. These officers have also been given the responsibility of handling the complaints against hospitals with inflated bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-extends-bed-reservation-in-private-hospitals-by-three-months/article32509747.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||State to declare 600 acres of Aarey as reserve forest||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday announced the reservation of 600 acres of Aarey land near Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) as forest, claiming it as the first instance of an extensive forest blossoming within the limits of metropolis anywhere in the world. In a meeting of Aarey, which falls under Dairy Development Department, and the Forest and Environment departments, it was decided to apply Section 4 of Indian Forest Act (IFA) to almost 600 acres of the land. “This implies that it will be declared a reserve forest after a hearing for suggestion and objections,” State’s Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray said. Once the notification is issued, all suggestions and objections will be called in next 45 days. He said around 600 acres of open land will be declared as forest, ensuring all rights of tribal communities which reside within it, stand protected. “Rehabilitation of slums within the area would be expedited. This will be Phase 1, for which Forest Department will move a proposal,” he said. Phase 2 survey for additional open/forest land in Aarey will begin after this. “This would help the State protect the flora and fauna existent in SGNP and Aarey,” Mr. Aaditya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-to-declare-600-acres-of-aarey-as-reserve-forest/article32509746.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC grants Parsis permission to offer prayers at Doongerwadi||The Bombay High Court on Monday allowed Parsis to offer prayers for their departed ones at Doongerwadi, Tower of Silence on September 3 from 7 a.m. to 4.30 p.m., after being assured that all protocols related to COVID-19 will be followed. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar was hearing petition filed by Viraf Mehta, a Trustee of Bombay Parsi Panchayat, seeking direction from court to permit opening of Fire Temple, Doongerwadi, and other places of worship and permit Parsis to visit the places of worship. The pleas wanted Doongerwadi temple to be open during annual prayer day and permit followers of the religion, to perform rituals at the temple and issue guidelines in respect. The plea stated, “As per the Shehenshahi Calendar, Shehenshahi 10 Muktad Days started on Sunday, August 7, from Ashtad Roj to Aneran Roj, Asfandarmad Mahino followed by 5 Gatha Days — Ahunavad, Ushtavad, Spentomad, Vohukhshathra and Vahishtoisht, from 12th to 16th August.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-grants-parsis-permission-to-offer-prayers-at-doongerwadi/article32509749.ece
03 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police trace used gloves link to Kochi hospital||With five arrests and seizure of used Nitrile hand gloves worth Rs. 48 lakh, the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch suspects that the hospital that supplied them might be from Kochi. A police team is already in Kochi scrutinising the evidence and verifying the link to one of the known hospitals there. On August 18, as per the information received by assistant police inspector Rahul Rakh, Unit I of the Crime Branch seized around four tonnes of used hand gloves at a unit in Gami Industrial Park, Pawane MIDC, Navi Mumabi, which were being washed and repacked for selling them further. The police found 263 sacks containing four lakh used gloves and 17 packets which had used gloves after they were washed and dried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-trace-used-gloves-link-to-kochi-hospital/article32509742.ece
03 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Rice seizure: three from Karnataka arrested||A month after the seizure of 110 metric tonnes of rice, meant for public distribution system (PDS), from a godown in Palaspa in Panvel, the police have found out that the accused had exported 32,827 metric tonnes of rice worth around Rs. 82 crore to 13 countries in South Africa since January 1. As many as 18 accused have been identified, and three of them from Karnataka have been arrested so far. On July 31, the Panvel police along with revenue department officials had raided Take Care Logistics in Palaspe and seized 110 tonnes of rice packed in 2,220 sacks with labels of the FCI), Asian Rice, Government of Punjab, and Government of Haryana. The seized rice, worth Rs. 33 lakh, belonged to the FCI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rice-seizure-three-from-karnataka-arrested/article32509745.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Staggered start to Metro services from Sept. 7||Metro rail services in the country, except in Maharashtra, will resume in a staggered manner from September 7. If all goes well, that is if passengers follow social distancing and other COVID-19 related safety norms, normal operations could resume from September 12, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said on Wednesday. He said the decision would be reviewed if social distancing was not followed, and crowding was seen on the networks. SOP announced Mr. Puri addressed a press conference to announce the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Metro trains, which have remained suspended for over five months due to the pandemic, after the Ministry of Home Affairs gave the go-ahead on August 28. Only asymptomatic people will be allowed to enter stations after thermal screening, and face masks will be mandatory for all passengers and staff. While not mandatory, the use of the government’s Aarogya Setu app would be “encouraged”. Mr. Puri said the Maharashtra government had decided not to start operations of the Mumbai Line-1, the Maha Metro in Nagpur and the monorail in September, instead planning to open from October or as it may decide further. Stating that “resumption of economic activity is an imperative” behind the decision, Mr. Puri said the Metro corporations would ensure all precautions, including sanitising trains. “But we need the cooperation of the public,” he said. According to the guidelines, Metros with more than one line should re-start operations of different lines from September 7 in a staggered manner so all corridors become operational by September 12. The hours of operations may be staggered to start with, but will be increased gradually till “resumption of full revenue service by September 12”. The stations in containment zones would remain closed. The Ministry’s SOP said hand sanitisers should be available at the entry and Smart Card use should be encouraged over tokens and paper tickets. Mr. Puri said Metro corporations would be able to skip stations if they find social distancing is being violated on the station. Those found not wearing masks or violating social distancing norms could be named and shamed, he added. In the interest of quick security checks, passengers would be advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid metallic items. Trains should have as much additional intake of fresh air as possible, the SOP said. Mr. Puri said the Metro corporations in Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bengaluru, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur), Kolkata, Gujarat and U.P. Metro (Lucknow) had prepared their own SOPs based on the Ministry’s SOP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/staggered-start-to-metro-services-from-sept-7/article32509752.ece
03 September 2020||Pune,||At 17,433, Maharashtra records highest surge||In its highest single-day spike till date, Maharashtra reported 17,433 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its total case tally to 8,25,739. As many as 292 more patients succumbed, pushing the death toll to 25,195. The number of active cases in the State has crossed the two lakh mark to reach 2,01,703. As many as 13,959 patients were discharged on Wednesday to take the total recoveries till date to 5,98,496. Of the 292 deaths recorded, 201 fatalities are from the last 48 hours while 55 deaths have occurred last week. The remaining 36 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said. “Of a total 42,84,000 laboratory samples tested thus far, 8,25,739 (19.27%) have returned positive with over 73,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 72.48%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 3.05%. Pune reported more than 3,500 cases to take its total cases to 1,82,212. The district reported 39 deaths to push its mortality toll to 4,160. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases in the district was below the 35,000 mark. Mumbai reported 1,622 cases to take its total case tally to 1,48,569 of whom 20,810 are active. As many as 34 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 7,727. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a record-high spike of 1,500 new cases along with 38 deaths. The district’s total case tally has now reached 31,033 of whom 13,256 are active while the death toll has climbed to 790. The upsurge of fresh cases continued in the three ‘sugar belt’ districts in western Maharashtra: Kolhapur reported 603 new cases, taking its total tally to 23,359 of whom 6,150 are active while 20 more deaths saw the district’s fatality toll reach 682. Sangli reported 753 cases taking the district’s total case tally to 15,195 of whom 6,730 are active. As many as 15 fatalities saw the district’s death toll climb to 460. Satara district reported a spike of 683 cases to push its total case tally to 15,426 of whom 6,042 are active. Six more deaths took its mortality toll to 363.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/at-17433-maharashtra-records-highest-surge/article32509744.ece
03 September 2020||Pune,||42-year-old Pune journalist succumbs to COVID-19||A 42-year-old reporter with a vernacular news channel became the first journalist in Pune district to succumb to COVID-19 on Wednesday. Pandurang Raikar, a senior reporter with the TV9 news channel, passed away around 5.30 a.m. after his oxygen levels plummeted drastically. According to sources, Raikar, who had tested positive while in Ahmednagar, had been moved to Pune for treatment. His kin have alleged that Raikar could not secure a ventilator bed at the recently operational 800-bed jumbo facility at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) grounds where he was admitted on the evening of August 31. When a critical care bed was finally made available at the city’s Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in the early hours of Wednesday, the Raikar family could not get a cardiac ambulance to take him there on time. Raikar’s kin have also alleged that a private hospital in Ahmednagar had delayed admitting him unless the journalist made an advance payment of Rs. 40,000. Even after admitting him, they claim that Raikar was not given ‘stabilising treatment’ which forced the family to rush him to the Pune jumbo facility for treatment. Terming the journalist’s death as “extremely unfortunate”, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and State Health Minister Rajesh Tope have ordered a probe into the incident. “It is extremely unfortunate that a person has to lose his life because of lack of ventilator beds or ambulances. We will probe this affair. But to avoid such incidents, we have already given strict instructions to collectors and commissioners to buy or hire ambulances at any cost,” Mr. Tope said in Mumbai. He also said that in a number of cases, it had been observed that some rich and influential people were occupying ICU beds in hospitals and other facilities despite themselves being asymptomatic. A release issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the evening said that Raikar had fever and cough on August 20 and had taken treatment from local doctors. He had also taken a COVID-19 test on August 27 which had returned negative. “After this test, he left for his native village in Ahmednagar’s Kopargaon taluk. Later, when he started feeling unwell on August 29, he had taken a rapid antigen test on August 31 and was admitted to a local hospital at the behest of the Ahmednagar District Collector. However, his condition did not improve there and was brought to the CoEP centre on August 31 where he was stabilised,” the release said. The Pune civic authorities further said that after conducting all requisite tests, Raikar was kept on oxygen. “The doctors at the facility decided to move Raikar to the ICU on August 1. However, his relatives, in the expectation of securing a bed in a private hospital [Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital] decided to shift the patient there. However, in securing the requisite cardiac ambulance necessary to transport him led to delay in normal treatment as per COVID-19 regulations in this time. The patient’s condition suddenly worsened at 4.30 a.m. and his oxygen levels dipped sharply to 50-55 within a few minutes…he passed away an hour later following cardio-respiratory failure,” the PMC statement said. The journalist’s untimely death has drawn the ire of Opposition parties as well as political outfits and social activists. Raikar leaves behind his parents, his wife and two small children. His last rites were performed later in the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/42-year-old-pune-journalist-succumbs-to-covid-19/article32509927.ece
03 September 2020||Pune,||‘Jumbo facilities of no use in absence of trained staff’||With a 42-year-old television journalist from Pune succumbing to the novel coronavirus after allegedly failing to access critical care beds, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Siddharth Shirole has sought Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s intervention in tackling the issue of absence of trained medical staff and doctors in the newly operational jumbo COVID-19 facilities. Mr. Shirole, in a letter to Mr. Thackeray, said that the State government must realise that the mega, 800-bed facilities, each comprising 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds, were not ordinary COVID-19 care centres but facilities where critically-ill patients arrived at an advanced stage of the infection. “Only critical patients, whose life is hanging in the balance, will be coming here. The doctors and medical staff working here [jumbo facilities] ought to treat patients in a very sensitive manner and be very alert to changes in their health. I have been receiving numerous complaints on the ease of hospitalisation and the absence of compassion shown towards these patients,” the BJP legislator from Shivajinagar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jumbo-facilities-of-no-use-in-absence-of-trained-staff/article32509926.ece
03 September 2020||Raina Assainar Navi Mumbai,||Woman held for trying to sell ‘virgin’ daughter||Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of Navi Mumbai has arrested a Mira-Bhayander resident from Nerul, for trying to sell her ‘virgin’ daughter for Rs. 1.2 lakh. Senior police inspector Arjun Garad of AHTU received a tip-off about the woman, Sonam Hakim Singh (40), who was in search of a customer. “She was claiming that her daughter was a virgin and had been bargaining with people for the best rate. We arranged a fake customer and cracked the deal for Rs. 1.2 lakh,” Mr. Garad said. On August 31, a meeting was fixed at Kohinoor Hotel in Shirawane, Nerul, where the lady was to bring her 18-year-old daughter. “We suspect that probably the woman was herself into flesh trade. Her husband is paralysed and she claims to be a housewife. We are also investigating if they are the real parents of the girl who was being sold,” Mr. Garad said. The woman was arrested under Section 370 of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-held-for-trying-to-sell-virgin-daughter/article32509748.ece
03 September 2020||Kenosha,||Trump calls protests ‘domestic terror’||President Donald Trump on Tuesday took his tough law-and-order message to Kenosha, the latest U.S. city roiled by the police shooting of a black man, as he branded recent anti-racism protests as acts of “domestic terror” by violent mobs. Mr. Trump has been hoping for months to shift the election battle against Democrat Joe Biden from a referendum on his widely panned pandemic response, to what he sees as far more comfortable territory of law and order. And in the Wisconsin city of Kenosha, in upheaval since a white police officer shot 29-year-old African American Jacob Blake in front of his three children, the Republican found his mark. “These are not acts of peaceful protest but really domestic terror,” Mr. Trump said after touring damaged areas of the city, describing multiple nights of angry demonstrations last week that left two people dead. Crowds lined the barricaded streets where the President’s motorcade passed, with Mr. Trump’s supporters on one side and Black Lives Matter protesters on the other, yelling at one another from a distance and in sometimes tense face-to-face encounters. “Thank you for saving our town,” read the sign of one supporter along the road. “Not my President,” read another. Under heavy security that blocked off the road, Mr. Trump visited a burnt-out store where he told the owners “we’ll help you rebuild.” “These gentlemen did a fantastic job,” he said, in reference to law enforcement units that quelled the violent protests. Commits funds “This is a great area, a great state,” Mr. Trump said, adding later that his administration was committing at least $47 million to Wisconsin law enforcement, small businesses and public safety programmes. “We’ll get Kenosha back in shape,” he said. Mr. Trump had suggested in Washington that a meeting with the Blake family was possible during his high-profile trip, but it did not materialise. A microcosm of the racial and ideological tensions of the Trump era, Kenosha has seen Black Lives Matter protests, riots, and the arrival of armed, white vigilantes, culminating in an incident in which a 17-year-old militia enthusiast, Kyle Rittenhouse, allegedly shot dead two people and badly injured another. ‘Institutional racism’ Democrats and police-reform advocates view Kenosha as a symbol of institutional racism. They see Rittenhouse, a Trump supporter, as emblematic of right-wing militias that are increasingly brazen about brandishing weaponry in political settings. Mr. Trump has refused to condemn the growing presence of armed vigilantes on the streets, calling the alleged killings by Rittenhouse “an interesting situation”. “We have to condemn the dangerous anti-police rhetoric,” he said at a command center set up in a Kenosha high school. In an interview on Monday, Mr. Trump likened police officers who err when making split-second decisions to golfers who “choke” under pressure. “Shooting the guy in the back many times. I mean, couldn’t you have done something different?” he said. “But they choke. Just like in a golf tournament, they miss a three-foot putt.” Wisconsin’s Governor and Kenosha’s Mayor, both Democrats, had urged Mr. Trump not to visit but he ignored their pleas — and Mr. Biden has accused him of deliberately fomenting violence for political gain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-calls-protests-domestic-terror/article32509434.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||China engaged in a pattern of bullying: Pompeo||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said China was engaged in a pattern of bullying and that the U.S. hoped the situation between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would be resolved peacefully. The comments come days after the Indian Army said Chinese troops had carried out “provocative” moves to change the status quo and the Indian Army had moved to strengthen its position. “We’re hoping for a peaceful resolution of the situation on the India-China border. From the Taiwan Strait to the Himalayas and beyond, the Chinese Communist Party is engaged in a clear and intensifying pattern of bullying its neighbours,” Mr. Pompeo said on Wednesday at a State Department briefing. “We also remained concerned... about more than 300 Chinese vessels near the Galapagos which are almost certainly engaged in illegal fishing. In light of this maritime lawlessness, it’s no surprise that Beijing’s candidate in the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea election last week received more abstentions than any other candidate.” The Chinese candidate judge was elected to the Tribunal last week despite American opposition. ‘Engage with Dalai Lama’ Mr. Pompeo also said the U.S. continued to call upon Beijing to “enter dialogue with the Dalai Lama or his representatives without preconditions to reach a settlement that resolves their differences”. Also at the briefing, Mr. Pompeo announced that the U.S. would be putting in place restrictions on Chinese diplomats in response to restrictions American diplomats faced in China. Chinese diplomats in the U.S. will now require approval to visit American university campuses, meet with local government officials or host cultural events of more than 50 people outside their mission properties. Following Mr Pompeo’s remarks, Assistant Secretary for East Asia David Stillwell said the U.S. advised China to return to dialogue and resolve things peacefully without coercion and the use of force in the context of “the many conflicts that are going on in China’s periphery right now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-engaged-in-a-pattern-of-bullying-pompeo/article32509422.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘China using non-military tactics to expand influence’||An annual report from the U.S. Department of Defense to Congress describes Chinese leaders’ use of tactics short of armed conflict to further the country’s objectives, citing border conflicts with India and Bhutan among the examples. The report also says China is trying to establish stronger bases outside the country so the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) can project military power at greater distances. Other key conclusions the U.S. presents include the notion that China’s military is at least as advanced as the U.S. in several military modernisation areas such as shipbuilding, land-based conventional ballistic and cruise missiles and integrated air defence systems. China also uses multilateral organisations to limit criticism of its initiatives, as per the report. The report describes Non-War Military Activities (NWMA) as one of two kinds of military operations (the other is war) used by the PLA. “NWMA can be conducted internationally or domestically and encompass activities in multiple domains. NWMA can notably include operations in which the PLA uses coercive threats and/or violence below the level of armed conflict against states and other actors to safeguard the PRC’s sovereignty and national interests,” the report says. “China calibrates its coercive activities to fall below the threshold of provoking armed conflict with the United States, its allies and partners, or others in the Indo-Pacific region,” the DOD China Military Power Report for 2020 says. “These tactics are particularly evident in China’s pursuit of its territorial and maritime claims in the South and East China Seas as well as along its border with India and Bhutan... China also employs non-military tools coercively, including economic tools during periods of political tensions with countries that China accuses of harming its national interests,” said the report, which is in its 20th year of production. The report cites the role of the People’s Armed Forces Maritime Militia (PAFMM), which plays a major role in coercive operations including, in 2009, “ the harassment of USNS Impeccable conducting normal operations” and the 2012 Scarborough Reef standoff. Overseas bases On overseas military bases, the report says that beyond the base in Djibouti, China is “very likely already considering and planning for” additional military logistics facilities to support ground, air and naval forces. Locations in the following countries have likely been considered for use, as per the report: Myanmar, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, UAE, Kenya, Seychelles, Tanzania, Angola, and Tajikistan. It also says the PLA’s military logistics network could interfere with U.S. operations and help support offensive operations against America. The Belt and Road Initiative [which the report refers to by is former name, the One Belt, One Road initiative, or OBOR] will result in a greater overseas military presence for China, the report says. “The PRC’s [China] overseas development and security interests under OBOR will drive the PRC towards expanding its overseas military footprint to protect those interests.” China uses the economic influence it gets via the project to get participating countries to support it on a range of other issues, the report says. Since the report is retrospective and looks at 2019, this year’s clashes and tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are not discussed. Instead, the report says: “ Chinese and Indian forces both continued construction and patrols in contested regions along the disputed border, but generally kept tensions from escalating in 2019.” It describes the October meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Chennai and the August 2019 “early harvest” border proposals that China submitted to India. “Although India was not pleased with the proposals, the 22nd meeting of the Special Representatives of India and China occurred in December 2019 and reinforced both sides’ shared intent to manage tensions in the border region,” the report says. Limiting criticism On multilateral forums and international organisations, the report says China uses these “to generate new opportunities to expand its influence, strengthen its political influence, promotes strategic messaging that portrays it as a responsible global actor, advance its development interests, and limit outside interference in and criticism of its initiatives.” The Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) grouping and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization are among those cited as examples of this alleged phenomenon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-using-non-military-tactics-to-expand-influence/article32509430.ece
03 September 2020||Lahore,||Experts puzzled as virus cases drop in Pak.||Six months after the novel coronavirus arrived in Pakistan, the country appears to have dodged the worst of the pandemic, baffling health experts and dampening fears its crowded urban areas and ramshackle hospitals will be overrun. Following an initial surge, the number of infections has plummeted in recent weeks, with COVID-19 deaths hovering in the single digits each day. Pakistan has a long history of failing to contain myriad infectious diseases such as polio, tuberculosis and hepatitis, while successive governments have underfunded its healthcare sector. Added to that, many Pakistanis live in crowded, multi-generational homes or packed apartment buildings that favour rampant virus transmission. “No one has been able to explain this decline... We don’t have any concrete explanation,” said Salman Haseeb, a doctor at Services Hospital in Lahore. Pakistanis have proposed numerous hypotheses for their country’s seeming ability to weather the pandemic, crediting everything from the young population and the hot and humid climate to unproven claims of natural immunity. Its median age is only 22 and the COVID-19 is known to disproportionately impact older people with prior health complications. In comparison, Italy, with a median age of 46.5, has recorded more than 35,000 deaths, while Pakistan’s official toll is about 6,300. To date, the South Asian nation has confirmed more than 2,95,000 infections. Observers say that with only limited testing the true number of infections is likely considerably higher. One testing exercise in Lahore suggested as many as 7% of the city’s population had been exposed to the virus. But anecdotal evidence from hospitals across Pakistan supports the downward trend. While healthcare facilities were initially swamped, doctors across Pakistan told AFP they are now no longer seeing a coronavirus-related rush. A flattening curve is all the more curious considering howCOVID-19 has hit India, which with a median age of 26 and crowded cities has a somewhat similar demographic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/experts-puzzled-as-virus-cases-drop-in-pak/article32509427.ece
03 September 2020||BERLIN,||Navalny poisoned by nerve agent Novichok, says Germany||Tests carried out on Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny showed that he was poisoned by a Novichok chemical nerve agent, the German government said on Wednesday, demanding explanations from Moscow. “It is a shocking event that Alexei Navalny has become the victim of an attack with a chemical nerve agent in Russia,” said government spokesman Steffen Seibert in a statement. “The government condemns this attack in the strongest terms. The Russian government is urgently requested to provide clarifications over the incident.” Tests carried out by the German Army in consultation with the Charite hospital in Berlin, where Navalny is being treated, had found “unequivocal evidence of a chemical nerve agent from the Novichok family,” Mr. Seibert said. Mr. Navalny, 44, fell ill after boarding a plane in Siberia last month. He was initially treated in a local hospital before being flown to Berlin for treatment. The Charite hospital has reported “some improvement” in Mr. Navalny’s condition but he nevertheless remains in a medically induced coma and on a ventilator. In 2018, the Kremlin was accused of being behind the attempted murder of ex-double agent Sergei Skripal in Salisbury, southwest England, using a Novichok nerve agent. The German government said it would inform NATO and EU partners over its findings and seek a joint reaction on the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/navalny-poisoned-by-nerve-agent-novichok-says-germany/article32509432.ece
03 September 2020||Riyadh,||UAE flights to ‘all nations’ can fly over Saudi Arabia||Saudi Arabia has agreed to allow UAE flights to “all countries” to overfly the kingdom, state media reported on Wednesday, days after allowing an Israeli aircraft to pass over en route to Abu Dhabi. Saudi Arabia has accepted an Emirati request to allow “crossing the kingdom’s airspace for flights heading to the UAE and departing from it to all countries”, the official Saudi Press Agency said, citing a source from the civil aviation authority. Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced that Monday’s historic first commercial flight of an Israeli aircraft direct to the UAE across Saudi Arabia would not be the last. “Israeli planes and those from all countries will be able to fly directly from Israel to Abu Dhabi and Dubai, and back,” Mr. Netanyahu said, without giving any timeline. The announcements come after a U.S.-Israeli delegation visited Abu Dhabi on Monday, on the first direct commercial flight from Tel Aviv. Saudi Arabia has said it will not follow the UAE in establishing diplomatic ties with Israel until the Jewish state has signed a peace accord with the Palestinians. But the kingdom has cultivated clandestine relations with Israel in recent years, in a shift spearheaded by de facto leader Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-flights-to-all-nations-can-fly-over-saudi-arabia/article32509428.ece
03 September 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo, Sept 2, 2020 (AFP) -||Japan’s coast guard said on Wednesday that it was searching for a cargo ship with 43 people on board after receiving a distress call from the East China Sea during a typhoon. Four vessels and several planes were involved in the search operation.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tokyo-sept-2-2020-afp/article32509423.ece
03 September 2020||Baghdad,||Baghdad, Sept 2, 2020 (AFP) -||French President Emmanuel Macron landed in Baghdad on Wednesday on his first official trip to Iraq, where he hopes to help the country reassert its “sovereignty” after years of conflict.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/baghdad-sept-2-2020-afp/article32509425.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A replay of Shanghai in Hong Kong||Former President of China Jiang Zemin is often rumoured to be dead, so the nonagenarian can make news simply by appearing. By contrast, young veterans of Hong Kong’s 2014 Umbrella Movement such as Agnes Chow, Nathan Law, and Joshua Wong are more likely to make news now by disappearing. On August 7, an October 2019 shot of Mr. Jiang standing with another past head of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), Hu Jintao, and current leader Xi Jinping topped an article in the Nikkei Asian Review on the declining role of retired elders in meetings presided over by Mr. Xi, a go-it-alone strongman. A shot of Ms. Chow appeared in the same publication in an August 10 article on her arrest the same day, as one of the first high-profile targets of the harsh new National Security Law that Beijing has imposed on Hong Kong. As a 94-year-old man who used to head a venerable party that is still in power, Mr. Jiang currently has little in common with Ms. Chow, a 23-year-old woman who helped found an opposition party that recently disbanded. But things are different when we place his youthful experiences in Shanghai in the mid-to-late 1940s beside hers in Hong Kong in the 2010s. He, too, spent his late teens and early twenties alternating between attending classes and going to pro-democracy demonstrations. A tale of two protests What makes this parallel between Shanghai then and Hong Kong now interesting is that the CCP has long rooted its legitimacy, as organisations that rise to power via revolutions do, in the idea that it has nothing in common with the government it toppled. There are, however, not just similarities between what Mr. Jiang did three-quarters of a century ago and what Ms. Chow has done in the last few years, but also similarities between the causes and course of protests in Shanghai then, when it was under autocratic Nationalist Party rule, and in Hong Kong now. And the strategies that the authorities used to try to discredit and suppress dissent in Hong Kong during the anti-patriotic education drive of 2012 (which Ms. Chow, then in her mid-teens, helped lead), the 2014 Umbrella Movement, and last year’s anti-extradition bill and anti-police brutality struggle often echoed those that the Nationalist Party used to try to discredit and suppress dissent when Mr. Jiang was a young member of a Communist Party that was an opposition group rather than a ruling one. I’ve never found a detailed account of Mr. Jiang’s college days, but while working on a book about Shanghai student movements decades ago, I read many memoirs by people who moved in the same circles that he did. And last year, I kept coming across things that brought those memoirs to mind. Student activists in Shanghai then, as in Hong Kong now, spearheaded protest drives that brought members of many social groups to the streets, while the authorities ginned up much smaller pro-stability “protests” to try to show that the people were on their side. In Shanghai then, as in Hong Kong now, protesters criticised the police for working with thugs and scoffed at the official media for dismissing widely supported protests as the work of small bands of troublemaking malcontents manipulated by foreign hidden hands. Of course, not everything lines up, as each city has a distinctive political history and the Nationalist Party’s position decades ago was different from the Communist Party’s position now. Issues of local identity have been more central in the movements Ms. Chow has helped lead than they were in the ones that Mr. Jiang joined. And Shanghai protests then took place in a Republic of China over which Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalist Party had only tenuous control, while Hong Kong protests now unfold in a People’s Republic of China (PRC) over which the CCP has a firm grip. Problems in the fairy tale Still, the parallels are striking — and create problems for a legitimating fairy tale that generations of CCP propagandists have trotted out. This fairy tale holds that the bad old days of the pre-1949 era were nothing like the glorious era that began when the Nationalists were defeated. Events in many parts of the PRC contradict this story, including Hong Kong. Many of the same issues that made people chafe at Nationalist rule in the Shanghai of Mr. Jiang’s youth, from limits on freedom of speech to anger at how tightly linked the government was to the richest families in the city, have triggered protests in Hong Kong recently. And in responding to the Hong Kong protests, the CCP and its local proxies have been using a mix of new methods and old techniques that were part of the Nationalist playbook. The parallels between the periods are even more notable if we bring in events of the 1940s in other places. Consider, for example, one thing that protesters at a Kunming campus did during that decade: created a space called a Minzhuqiang or Democracy Wall on which they put up posters expressing their grievances and aspirations. That term has since been used for many spaces on many campuses, with different generations of activists making creative use of them. On recent trips to Hong Kong, one place I went to periodically to get a sense of what was on the minds of current students was the Democracy Wall at Baptist University, Ms. Chow’s alma mater. It is also worth bringing in what happened in Taiwan during the years that Mr. Jiang was studying and protesting in Shanghai. The Nationalists in the 1940s, like the Communists once in power, were fond of presenting themselves as liberators. They claimed that they should be credited with having freed both parts of the Chinese mainland that been incorporated into the Japanese empire during World War II and also Taiwan, which had been under the control of Japan for a much longer time, from oppressive foreign domination. After Nationalist forces gunned down and arrested protesters in 1947, however, during a wave of ‘White Terror’ repressive actions that was followed by a decades-long martial law period, local activists insisted that Taiwan’s people had gone from being under one form of colonial control to being under another form of it. Some Hong Kong residents now similarly claim that they are still waiting for — and fighting for — a true liberation. The 1997 Handover, which took place when Mr. Jiang was in power and Ms. Chow was an infant, ended a period of British colonial rule. But in light of how local officials have been dependent on and deferential to CCP leaders hundreds of miles to the north, it can seem that all that the Handover really did was change Hong Kong from being part of an empire whose capital was London to being part of an empire whose capital is Beijing. And some find it fitting now to use an old term, ‘White Terror’, to describe actions such as the massive use of tear gas by local police last year and this year’s political persecution of figures such as Agnes Chow. Jeffrey Wasserstrom is Chancellor’s Professor of History at the University of California, Irvine, and author of ‘Vigil: Hong Kong on the Brink’ (2020)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-replay-of-shanghai-in-hong-kong/article32509419.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A guide to flattening the curve of economic chaos||Now it is official: India has managed to become the global leader in the number of new daily cases of COVID-19 and the worst performing of all major economies during the pandemic so far. How did we manage this double feat? Not through ‘acts of god’, but because of the incompetence and apathy of our current leadership. Data on the decline The estimated 24% GDP contraction in April-June 2020 compared to the previous year is the worst performance among G20 economies, and even compared to other South Asian countries. But these numbers are likely underestimates because they are based on information from the formal or organised sector, extrapolated to informal unorganised activities. The actual decline is probably worse. Physical indicators such as the index of industrial production (covering registered manufacturing) declined by more than 20%, but ground reports indicate that unorganised manufacturing declined by much more. Many micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in manufacturing and services are still closed or functioning at a small fraction of their capacity. Wage incomes are falling more sharply than GDP because of the combination of employment declines and falling wage rates. There is other bad news in the GDP data: every sector other than agriculture declined sharply, especially the more employment-intensive sectors. The good rabi harvest and very good monsoon provided some respite in agriculture, but with incomes down, farm prices are unlikely to revive and ensure sufficient returns for cultivators over the year. Government consumption expenditure increased by about 16% over the same period in the previous year, but since total investment fell drastically (by around half), it is likely that public investment also fell. And gross value added in public administration, defence and other services fell by more than 10%. Around 90% of this is salaries. Central government salaries have not fallen, so the squeeze must have fallen on State governments: many of them have probably frozen or delayed salary payments. Grave distress Meanwhile, the pandemic continues apparently unabated: all talk of “flattening the curve” (as wishful as the “green shoots” in the economy that official spokespersons keep seeing) has vanished, replaced by the completely meaningless indicator of recovery rates which are bound to improve with more cases. The brutal national lockdown generated economic collapse even before the disease had spread much. Instead of testing, tracing, isolating and treating — which is costly but is still the only effective way to deal with this disease — the central government shut everything down across the country without warning. Then it provided no compensation and almost no social protection to those (around 80% of workers) who lost livelihood. Migrant workers were forced to return in terrible conditions to their homes, where they have unwittingly spread the disease in rural areas with poor health facilities. Working people have been impoverished and debilitated by lack of nutrition because they have been less able to afford food. Now they are being told to go back to work (mostly at lower wages) even as the risk of disease has grown exponentially. What is more terrifying is that this is still just the beginning: there is little reason to believe that this awful trajectory will be halted unless there is a major change in government strategy on both health and the economy. The downturn is definitely extending into the current quarter, and probably the rest of the year, so we are staring at the biggest economic crisis in independent India. Blow against States Lack of demand is a crucial reason for this. Both consumption and investment were declining well before the pandemic struck. Thereafter, despite the enormity of the economic collapse, the government’s relief responses have been pathetically small, barely touching the hundreds of millions of people affected and with little impact on aggregate demand. The halting steps taken on increasing liquidity have been effectively useless: bank credit has declined overall, and (other than favoured large companies) all types of borrowers have received less bank credit. The most disgraceful treatment has been of State governments. Despite the centralising imposition of the national Disaster Management Act, there was almost no coordination. State governments have been forced to do all the heavy lifting of dealing with the health crisis and the economic effects of the pandemic on their own, even as the Centre has denied them resources to do this effectively. The Centre is even denying the States their legal dues of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess. This reneging of a contractual promise could spell the end of what has been a poorly conceived, badly planned and worse implemented GST. The consequences of this stinginess will be felt directly by citizens. Most State governments front-ended their expenditures for the entire year to deal with the crisis and are now running out of money. Unlike the Centre, they face hard budget constraints and gave up their revenue-raising powers to the GST. They are now being told to borrow money (that the Centre owes them!) when it is uncertain how they will repay. This is going to affect their spending for the rest of the year and people will feel the results in reduced basic services. Roll out a fiscal package None of this was necessary or “god-given” and could have been averted with the right policies. Even now, this terrible trend can be reversed. The central government must immediately provide a large fiscal package (with actual money made available, not empty promises) including the following: pay the State governments their pending GST compensation dues and provide more resources in addition to deal with the pandemic and its effects; universalise the Public Distribution System (PDS) and provide free foodgrain (10 kg per household per month) for at least the next six months to anyone who needs it; provide Rs. 7,000 per family for three months as compensation for the incomes lost during the draconian lockdown; double the number of days of employment per household under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to 200 per year (for this year at least) and start an urban employment guarantee programme; extend the debt moratorium and convert into a standstill (without requiring interest payments for that period) and make sure that fresh credit reaches MSMEs and farmers who are being deprived of it; provide much more dedicated resources for health: for all the pandemic-required spending, and to deal with other health concerns that have been ignored or postponed for the past five months. This will cost money, for sure; but not doing this will be even more costly for the economy and the people. Not spending now will push the economy into a deeper hole, reducing incomes and, therefore, also taxes, and creating a bigger fiscal deficit even with lower spending. For now, these increased expenditures can be paid for by the Centre borrowing from the Reserve Bank of India (monetising the deficit, as governments across the world have been doing). This will not be inflationary as long as essential supplies are maintained, because demand is currently so low. Eventually, wealth taxes and taxes on multinational corporations (especially digital giants that manage to avoid taxes) must be thought of. Bold thinking and urgent action are the only way out. Jayati Ghosh is a professor of economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-guide-to-flattening-the-curve-of-economic-chaos/article32509407.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Victory in a long battle for equal opportunities||This year shall be remembered as a landmark in Indian military history for years to come. The Supreme Court of India, on February 17, delivered a much-anticipated ruling that allows women to serve as permanently commissioned (PC) officers in 10 combat support arms and services of the Indian Army. The Supreme Court also directed the central Government to rescind the embargo on command appointments for women officers. This July, the government issued formal sanction offering PC to women officers of the Indian Army. This is the culmination of a struggle for equal opportunity that began almost 27 years ago when the Army inducted the first batches of women as officers in non-medical corps . Culmination of a struggle I call the judgment iconic not only because it allowed women officers equal opportunities to serve in the Indian Army but also because the judgment addressed the issue of regressive mindsets. The onus of implementing this change rests with the leadership, but the direction has been shown. The Indian armed forces began inducting women in the non-medical branches in the year 1992, as short service commission (SSC) officers. The scheme initially allowed for a five-year service period, which was revised to 14 years. In the armed forces, both men and women opt for the Short Service Commission. However, upon completion of 14 years of service, male officers could get a permanent commission. Women officers who had put in the same number of years of service, were denied this privilege. In a quest for equality, many officers of Indian Army and Indian Air Force (Lieutenant Colonel Seema Singh was one of the first from the Army) filed cases in the Delhi High Court seeking to remove discrimination between genders. I was one of the petitioners from the Indian Air Force, fighting for Permanent commission ( Jasmine Kaur vs. Union of India WP (C) 8492/2009 ). In 2010, the case was adjudicated in favour of granting PC to women officers, thus paving the way forward. The Indian Air Force was first among the three services to grant PC to SSC women officers. The Indian Army chose to appeal in the Supreme Court, citing reasons of peculiar service conditions and operational requirements. A notification by the Government of India in 2019, suggested PC to women officers with less than 14 years of service, practically leaving a sizeable set of senior women officers out of the gambit. Now with this judgment, women who don ‘The Olives’, have finally obtained parity with their male counterparts. The Supreme Court also issued a directive to ensure that women are not restricted to staff duties. Approximately 30% of women officers in the Indian Army are deployed in combat zones (Civil appeal Nos 9367-9369 of 2011 Secretary, Ministry Of Defence vs Babita Puniya & Ors. ) performing similar duties like other officers. The policy issued by the government of India in 2019, was discriminatory to exclude them from command positions. Implications of judgment With the grant of PC, women officers will now be entitled to serving till the age of retirement and not forced to look for alternative careers after 14 years. This will provide clarity on their career paths and place women officers on an equal footing with men for promotions, professional growth, and provide job security. Despite forming a relatively minuscule 3.29% of the total strength of the Indian Army, women in all branches of the army have served shoulder to shoulder with male officers in operational field areas (The Indian Air Force has almost 13% women in the officer cadre). Selection for command appointments in the Indian Army eluded women officers earlier. Now, women officers can be considered for command roles, career postings and many other opportunities to distinguish themselves professionally. A grant of PC will accrue many other employee benefits, as, ‘In service career courses’ (such as the National Defence College, College of Defence Management, the Army War College, etc), the Defence Services Staff College, options in higher studies (such as a Master of Business Administration or a Master of Technology), pension, ex-servicemen status and consequent benefits to name a few. In addition, allowing a motivated set of experienced women officers in permanent cadre would be a small way to mitigate the shortage of officers (estimated at 18% of the authorised strength (Civil appeal Nos 9367-9369 of 2011, Secretary, Ministry Of Defence vs Babita Puniya & Ors. ) in the Indian Army. Warfare is changing With women already in combat support arms and Services, is the entry of women in combat arms the logical next step? Is the patriarchal mindset in India the only hurdle in allowing the entry of women into combat arms? Are there social issues in exposing our women to hazardous combat situations or capture by enemy forces? Given the evolving nature of warfare supported by technology, many of us do not consider this a question of gender ability but of performance, opportunity, and a fighting chance. However, each of these questions merits separate discussions, determined by the maturity and mindset of the system. Countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States have been conservative about women in their respective combat arms, while others like the Israeli Defense Forces have achieved widespread integration of women. I am sure we are on the correct path to further integration in future. Existing policy Before we hail this step, another question needs to be addressed. Will women get the opportunity to directly join the services as permanently commissioned officers? I ask this with knowledge on the rationale behind the introduction of the SSC cadre. The terms of employment of short service commission are subject to change and conversions into PC are based on force requirements. It is possible that based on cadre forecast, an SSC officer may not ever get a chance of converting to PC if there are no vacancies. This policy fairly applies to all SSC officers irrespective of gender. However, it must be noted that for women, the SSC is the only inroad into the armed forces (except the Medical Corps). There is no provision for women to choose defence as a long-term career right at the outset as a PC officer. When parity of allowing entry of women as permanent cadre is attained, it would truly be a level-playing field in terms of equal opportunity and career advancement. Jasmine Kaur is Wing Commander (retired), Indian Air Force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/victory-in-a-long-battle-for-equal-opportunities/article32509410.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A missed opportunity||The Committee of Experts on the Non-Personal Data Governance Framework has recommended in its report, among other things, making privately held non-personal data “open”. The objective is to make such data available for general use, though the committee does lay down conditions for such data transfers. This has raised concerns about state interference in the private data ecoystem. We think that the report is a missed opportunity to address the governance frameworks around what are some of the most important non-personal data sets in a country — those created by government agencies, or those resulting from taxpayer money. Non-personal data are data that do not identify an individual. Nonetheless, such data can be useful in either framing public policy or creating and providing new services. For example, aggregate data from land registries can tell us a lot about land use patterns. Data related to traffic flows can be used to guide traffic management. Non-personal data are also viewed as critical for development of the AI ecosystem. Why data should be open to citizens Some of the most important non-personal data sets are held by the government, or result from taxpayer funding. There are five reasons why these should be open to the citizens of the country. First, the state should be transparent about information that it has. This will improve accountability. This is one of the reasons why the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, mandates the disclosure of government data on a suo moto basis. Second, if taxpayer money has funded any of the data sets, then it is an obligation of the state to return the fruits of that funding to the taxpayer. Third, by permitting the reuse of government data sets, we avoid the need for duplication. Fourth, government data sets, curated according to publicly verified standards, can lead to increased confidence in data quality and increased usage. Finally, free flow of information can have beneficial effects on society in general. In theory, we know that the government agrees with this proposition. Besides the RTI Act, we have in place many policies that promote and provide for openness of such data. For instance, one of the nine pillars of the Digital India Policy is “information for all”. The National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy (NDSAP), 2012 requires all non-sensitive information held by public authorities to be made publicly accessible in machine readable formats (subject to conditions). The government has also set up an Open Government Data Platform to provide open access to data sets held by ministries and other agencies of the government. Various States have also either created their own data portals or have provided data sets to the Open Government Data Platform. Failure to create an open data society In practice, the quality and quantity of data sets published by the government are still well short of ideal. In addition, the government’s general reticence to make valuable information sets available to the public is well known. There are two reasons for our failure to create an open data-based society. The first is lack of clarity in some of the provisions of the NDSAP or the relevant implementation guidelines. The second is the inability to enforce guidelines appropriately, which has meant that data sets released by governments are often inconsistent, incomplete, outdated, published in non-machine readable or inconsistent formats, include duplicates, and lack quality (or any) metadata, thereby reducing re-usability. The Gopalakrishnan Committee could have evaluated what is going wrong with existing policies and practice pertaining to government data, and deliberated on how these can be addressed. Instead, the report largely focuses on the dangers posed by data collection by private sector entities. Without going into the merits or demerits of taking an interventionist approach to the data ecosystem, many of the concerns that should be addressed in the report that are central to the governance of the data ecosystem have sadly remained in the background. For instance, India’s cybersecurity framework continues to be woefully inadequate, while even the Justice B.N. Srikrishna Committee report of 2018 highlighted the need to restrict the growing power of the state to carry out surveillance. Since data governance is a relatively new concept in India, the government would be better served in taking an incremental approach to any perceived problems. This should begin with reforming how the government itself deals with citizens’ data. This would engender greater trust in data governance practices and, importantly, allow the development of state capacity to govern the data ecosystem. Rishab Bailey and Renuka Sane are researchers at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-missed-opportunity/article32509413.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||One error rectified, many to go||In 2005, Parliament amended the Hindu Succession Act of 1956 to bring daughters of coparceners on a par with sons in a joint Hindu family. The law bestowed upon daughters the same rights and liabilities as that of sons. In Vineeta Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma (2020), the Supreme Court held that a coparcener’s daughter would become a coparcener in her own right by birth, thereby setting aside the Prakash v. Phulavati (2015) judgment that created a condition for a daughter to avail her right of being coparcener only if her father was alive on the date of this amendment. There is a difference between rights conferred by the Hindu Succession Act of 1956 and the amendment of 2005. In 1956, equal right of succession at par with a son was given to a daughter, but only after the demise of the father or mother. The 2005 amendment, however, gave the right to property to a daughter in a joint Hindu family during the lifetime of the father. As a matter of fact, right of succession is not a confirmed right and can easily be negated by the father or mother by creating a will. The 2005 amendment changed that; the right could no longer be negated. Correcting an error  Vineeta Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma is a progressive pronouncement that rectified an error committed by the Supreme Court. In Prakash v. Phulavati , the Supreme Court delved into the prospectivity or retrospectivity of the law creating coparcenary rights in favour of daughters. It applied the basic premise that the law is always prospective unless it is retrospective either expressly or by necessary intendment. The court held that as there was no express provision for giving this law a retrospective effect, it cannot be applied retrospectively. It created a condition that the rights under the amendment are applicable only to living daughters of living coparceners as on September 9, 2005; however, it gave no reason as to why this was chosen as a condition. The condition seems to have overstretched the scope of interpretation. The status of a daughter to be subject to her father being alive is apparently a mistake. The death of an individual should not determine the rights of their heirs. If any right had accrued in the daughter’s favour by a legislation, the same can’t be disturbed by death of her father. Coming to the 2005 amendment, if the legislature had any doubt about the prospective or retrospective applicability of the right created in favour of the daughter, then it would not have specifically added a proviso to Section 6 subsection (1). The proviso mentions that all those property rights, which have already been settled before December 20, 2004, by way of any transfer, partition, will, etc., shall not get affected by this right. Similarly, the explanation to subsection (5) of Section 6 mentions that this law shall not affect any registered partition deed effected before December 20, 2004. Both the proviso and explanation clearly indicate that this law created rights and entitlements in favour of daughters and an exception was carved out to protect the disturbance, the retrospective application of law could have created. Amending laws In the present judgment, Vineeta Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma , the court rightly held that as laid down in Section 6 (1) (a), daughter is to be a coparcener by birth; so there is no question of being prospective or retrospective. It is the physical status that matters and should not be linked to a date. Even in the case of unregistered partition deeds executed before December 20, 2004, the court has opened a new window for daughters. Daughters can claim a right even in an unregistered partition deed which has not been proved conclusively. Legislative errors disentitling daughters still exist as seen in the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950. Such discrimination is based purely on gender. There is a need to examine all the existing laws and wherever discriminatory practices exist, they need to be amended appropriately. Jyotika Kalra is Member, National Human Rights Commission. Views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/one-error-rectified-many-to-go/article32509416.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Grim Sovereign Tangle||Three years after India’s new indirect tax regime was introduced with a slogan of ‘One Nation, One Tax’, it faces an existential crisis. Despite its patchy structure with too many rates, complex compliance requirements and multiple mid-course changes, the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), overseen together by the Centre and the States, had begun to almost serve as an exemplar of co-operative federalism. All of those gains have quickly unravelled as the slowdown in the economy, exacerbated by the COVID-19 lockdowns, has thrown all revenue calculations to the wind. The Centre is obliged to pay to the States, for a period of five years, compensation for revenue shortfalls in return for their having ceded the power to levy the multiple taxes that were subsumed into the GST. Last week, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted, at what may have been the most tenuous GST Council meeting so far, that the Centre will not be able to meet the compensation shortfall. With GST collections sharply undershooting all targets this year, the Centre estimates compensation payable for the full year at Rs. 3-lakh crore. But just Rs. 65,000 crore is expected in the cess kitty used to pay out the compensation. In July, the Centre paid out the last instalment of compensation for the last fiscal and is, so far, yet to pay anything for this year. States have now been given two options, both requiring them to borrow from the market. The Centre contends that only Rs. 97,000 crore of the revenue shortfall is from implementation of the GST, while Rs. 1.38-lakh crore is due to extraordinary circumstances posed by an ‘Act of God’ (the pandemic). States can either borrow Rs. 97,000 crore, without having it added to their debt and with the principal and interest paid out from future cess collections, or they can borrow the entire Rs. 2.35-lakh crore shortfall, but will have to provide for interest payments themselves. The Finance Ministry has argued that higher borrowing by the Centre will push up interest rates and dent India’s fiscal parameters. At best, this is specious — total government debt, including States’, is what rating agencies look at. Several States have rejected both options and some, including Tamil Nadu, have urged the Centre to rethink in view of their essential and urgent spending needs to curb the pandemic and spur growth. A staring match is in the offing. It is up to the Centre to resolve this impasse in a way that future GST reforms do not fall victim to the trust deficit engendered by this stand-off, the pandemic response is strengthened and all-round government capital spending to bolster sagging demand not derailed. For now, the only certainty is that the compensation cess levied on demerit goods will stay on beyond 2022, and may even be raised, affecting several businesses, including the jobs-intensive auto sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/grim-sovereign-tangle/article32509402.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Dissent and detention||If ever any evidence was needed that Dr. Kafeel Khan, a government doctor from Gorakhpur, has been a victim of state persecution, the Allahabad High Court has provided that. Its 42-page order has laid bare the malefic manner in which the doctor was detained under the National Security Act (NSA) on February 13, 2020, shortly after he was granted bail in an earlier case. Dr. Khan, suspended in 2017 after a severe shortage of oxygen cylinders took a deadly toll among children admitted to the encephalitis ward in the Baba Raghav Das Medical College Hospital, Gorakhpur, was arrested on January 29, 2020, for an address to students of Aligarh Muslim University last December. His speech, which contained scathing criticism of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and its discriminatory nature, was deemed inflammatory weeks after he had made it. The High Court has now found that far from inciting Muslims, the speech, taken in its entirety, does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence; and nowhere does it threaten peace in Aligarh. The DM, Aligarh, the court says, used selective reading of some phrases and ignored its true intent while passing the detention order. No reasonable man, it says, would have come to the conclusion about the speech that the DM did. The grounds for detention under NSA provided nothing that indicated any attempt by Dr. Khan to disturb peace and tranquillity between the speech in December and his detention in February. The inevitable inference is that the NSA was invoked only to avoid releasing him following the Chief Judicial Magistrate court’s order granting him bail. The process to invoke the NSA itself began only after the bail order, the Bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Saumitra Dayal Singh noted. The use of stringent national security laws against political dissenters, in the absence of any appeal to violence, is something to be condemned in all cases. However, there is something perverse about the resort to preventive detention just to frustrate bail orders. In particular, the authorities have shown excessive zeal in dealing with Dr. Khan. In 2017, he was arrested on charges of negligence and corruption even though circumstances indicated his strenuous efforts to ensure continuous oxygen supply. He spent months in prison before an inquiry absolved him of the charges of negligence and corruption, but was found to have been engaging in private practice. The paediatrician’s suspension is yet to be revoked. Even though the verdict gives him relief, it comes after he spent seven months in jail. And his case will some day go to trial. The case of Dr. Khan is poor advertisement for India’s democratic credentials, for it brings to light its propensity to criminalise dissent, single out individuals for persecution and display a general disregard for basic rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dissent-and-detention/article32509403.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Bill adopted to abolish privy purses||The Constitution Amendment Bill for the abolition of the privy purses and privileges of the princes was passed by the Lok Sabha today [September 2, New Delhi] by 339 votes to 154, with the requisite two-thirds majority by a narrow margin of only eight votes — with a record attendance of 493 out of the total membership of 523 which includes the Speaker and the four existing vacancies in the House. The Government thus managed to scrape through with this controversial piece of legislation — with the help of the two Communist parties, the D.M.K., P.S.P., S.S.P, and nearly two-thirds of the Independents and other unattached members — amidst boisterous scenes with all the agonising suspense and drama of life and death struggle. The Congress(O), Jan Sangh, Swantantra, B.K.D., the remaining Independents and the rebel princes from the Ruling Congress Party missed the bus by only nine votes in their grim determination to defeat the Bill and give a good drubbing to the Government even if they were not able to topple it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bill-adopted-to-abolish-privy-purses/article32509415.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||After-care of the adolescent (From the Editorial)||It is a matter of great satisfaction that the Government of Madras have of late begun to take interest in the after-care of the adolescents released from the jail control. The report of Mr. S. Davis, Superintendent of the Borstal Institution, Tanjore, in connection with the after-care of the adolescents convicts released from the institution during the year 1919 is an interesting record of humane work, remedial, educational and constructive, done by the authorities during the year under report. As many as 417 adolescents were released during the year, the grant of special remissions in connection with the peace celebration being responsible for such a large increase in the number of boys discharged in one year. The appointment of honorary probation officers for the after-care of discharged prisoners continues to receive careful attention and 123 officers were appointed, of whom 65 were non-officials, in connection with 417 boys passported. The reasons assigned for not appointing a larger number of probation officers are either that the whereabouts of discharged boys were not available or that some of them had gone back to their homes under parental control or to the criminal settlement whence they came, or that the prisoners had migrated to remote places after release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/after-care-of-the-adolescent-from-the-editorial/article32509414.ece
03 September 2020||mumbai,||‘Economic growth will turn positive by Q1 of next year’||Economic growth will come into positive territory only by March or June quarter 2021, but India will have to turn the crisis into an opportunity by introducing reforms, Nilesh Shah, a part-time member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, said on Wednesday. ‘Future drives equities’ Mr. Shah, MD, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company, attributed the surge in equity markets to the optimism they get by looking at the future and not at the data of the past. India’s GDP contracted 23.9% year-on-year (y-o-y) in the June 2020 quarter, which saw COVID-19 lockdowns, making the country one of the worst performers across the world during the pandemic. At the current level, it looks like the March 2021 quarter or June 2021 quarter will show y-o-y positive GDP growth, Mr. Shah said, speaking at a webinar organised by professional networking platform Linkedin. He hinted that GDP will be hit by the pandemic for two years but stressed that the country needed to take advantage of the challenging situation, just the way it did in 1991 during the forex crisis which put growth momentum in a new orbit. He added that companies wanted to shift out of China and that India ought to roll out the red carpet for them while also cutting red tape. The cost of logistics, which makes Indian goods uncompetitive at the global level, has to be reduced. Besides, the cost of power has to go down as subsidised supply to farmers makes it expensive for industry to get electricity, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economic-growth-will-turn-positive-by-q1-of-next-year/article32509386.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capping MEIS benefits will seriously affect traders: FIEO||The government’s decision to cap export incentives under MEIS scheme at Rs. 2 crore per exporter on outbound shipments made during September-December, 2020 is going to “seriously” affect traders, FIEO said on Wednesday. The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) President Sharad Kumar Saraf said exports that will be made during September-December are based on orders that had been negotiated earlier, factoring in the existing Merchant Export from India Scheme (MEIS) benefit. These benefits are part of the export competitiveness and therefore the sudden change will affect exporters’ financially as buyers were not going to revise their prices upwards, he added. “However, the sudden imposition of a cap of Rs. 2 crore per IEC (Import Export Code), on MEIS benefit of exports made during September 1 to December 31, 2020, is going to seriously affect exporters, whose numbers may not be very large, but their contribution to exports warrant a revisit to the imposition of the cap,” he said. The Centre announced the cap on Tuesday. Mr. Saraf also expressed concern over the outlay of Rs. 5,000 crore given for exports during September-December, 2020 with the condition that if claims exceeded this limit, the ceiling may further be revised downwards. “This will create huge uncertainty as those eligible for a cap of Rs. 2 crore will not be able to factor in even such benefits in their exports,” he added. He urged the Centre to extend the MEIS till March 31, 2021, coterminous with the existing Foreign Trade Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/capping-meis-benefits-will-seriously-affect-traders-fieo/article32509388.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland bets on LCVs, buses, defence sector||Commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) is betting on three levers — LCVs, buses and the defence sector — to steer through the current challenging times, and emerge stronger, said a top official. “As we move to achieve our vision, the Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV) business will be our first lever of growth. The new LCV range is slated for introduction on September 14. After the launch, ALL is poised to address 65% of total LCV industry volume in India from the present 40%,” said chairman Dheeraj Hinduja, while addressing shareholders at the 71st AGM. The second area of growth would be the bus segment. The company plans to launch a new range of buses, aimed at greater presence in its traditional SAARC, Central Asia and Africa markets as well as in ASEAN, which will be its new thrust area. Defence would be the third lever to spur ALL’s growth, Mr. Hinduja said. As one of the largest providers of logistics vehicles to the armed forces, “ALL will continue to position mobility products and solutions in an accelerated manner.” In addition, the company is evaluating the feasibility of new opportunities afforded by recent government announcements, he said. ALL has also drawn up ambitious plans for a global play in the EV segment for both the passenger vehicles and LCVs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-bets-on-lcvs-buses-defence-sector/article32509393.ece
03 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||‘With MIAL, group units to gain from adjacencies’||Gujarat-based billionaire Gautam Adani said his ports-to-energy conglomerate acquiring a controlling stake in the Mumbai airport would help expand the group’s existing portfolio of six airports and create strategic adjacencies for its other businesses. The conglomerate on Monday said it had acquired controlling stake in the Mumbai International Airport Ltd. from the GVK group, which has decided to sell stake amid rising debt of the group having interests in energy, airports and other segments. “The addition of the Mumbai International Airport and the Navi Mumbai International Airport to our existing portfolio of six airports provides us a transformational platform that will help shape and create strategic adjacencies for our other B2B businesses,” he added. Adani Airports last year won the mandate to modernise and operate six airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/with-mial-group-units-to-gain-from-adjacencies/article32509379.ece
03 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Pipavav port to invest Rs. 700 crore in expansion||The board of APM Terminals Pipavav (Gujarat Pipavav Port Ltd.) has approved a Rs. 700 crore expansion plan to upgrade the port’s existing facility to handle bigger ships as well as to expand the container capacity to 1.6 million TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units). “The supply chain and the inland logistics are expected to significantly improve the reliability and reduce transit time going forward with the implementation of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC),” the company said. This will improve overall cargo volume for imports and exports. About 40% of the total investments in the entire 1,535 km of the DFC is likely to be in Gujarat. “With this investment, we aim to strengthen our network and continue to provide best in-class services to all our stakeholders,” Jakob Friis Sorenson, MD, APM Terminals Pipavav, said. “The container yard capacity will be expanded once the cargo growth is visible post commissioning of DFC. We expectnormalcy in business to be restored by the second quarter of 2021,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pipavav-port-to-invest-rs-700-crore-in-expansion/article32509382.ece
03 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Unacademy gets $150 mn in SoftBank-led round||Education technology firm Unacademy has raised $150 million in a round led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2i, valuing the company at $1.45 billion. Existing investors General Atlantic, Sequoia Capital, Nexus Venture Partners, Facebook, and Blume Ventures also participated in the round, it added. All documents related to the investment had been signed and the final closing was expected in the next few weeks, it said. “We’re delighted to welcome SoftBank as a partner. We started with test preparation and with this partnership, we will launch other [offerings] on our platform,” said Gaurav Munjal, co-founder and CEO, Unacademy. “By bringing quality education to a vast network of students for the first time, Unacademy is bridging the privilege gap in India,” said Munish Varma, managing partner, SoftBank Investment Advisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/unacademy-gets-150-mn-in-softbank-led-round/article32509384.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||TII to invest Rs. 100 cr. more in CG Power||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII), a Murugappa Group firm, has decided to invest an additional Rs. 100 crore in CG Power and Industrial Solutions Ltd. to meet the latter’s additional funding requirements. The fresh infusion is in addition to the investment of Rs. 700 crore in equity shares and warrants announced on August 7 to bail out the cash-strapped firm, TII said. TII will subscribe to 6.87 lakh equity shares of CG Power at Rs. 14.55 per share on a preferential basis. After the subscription, TII’s stake would rise to 58.58%. TII’s board had approved the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-to-invest-rs-100-cr-more-in-cg-power/article32509391.ece
03 September 2020||new delhi,||FM to meet heads of banks, NBFCs||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with heads of banks and NBFCs on Thursday for the smooth and speedy implementation of the one-time debt recast for resolution of COVID-19-related stress in bank loans. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last month permitted a one-time restructuring of both corporate and retail loans without getting classified as a non-performing asset (NPA). Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with the framework and eligibility defined by the RBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-to-meet-heads-of-banks-nbfcs/article32509389.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||Amrutanjan to expand into SE Asia, Africa||Amrutanjan Health Care Ltd., a leading manufacturer of pain relief balms, plans to strengthen its foothold in overseas markets by expanding presence in southeast Asia and in African countries, besides focussing on the North and West zones of India. Export revenue of the home-grown company, despite challenging macro conditions, breached the Rs. 4 crore-mark for the second consecutive year. Africa continues to be the largest contributing region at 69.3% of total exports and it witnessed an increase of 13.2% in FY20 over the previous year. Efforts are on to enter the Philippines, Laos and Kenya, S. Shambu Prasad, CMD, said in a note to shareholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amrutanjan-to-expand-into-se-asia-africa/article32509390.ece
03 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Happiest Minds public offer to open on Sept. 7||Industry veteran Ashok Soota-promoted Happiest Minds Technologies will unveil its initial public offer (IPO) on September 7. The offer will close on September 9. The company has fixed the price band at Rs. 165-166 per equity share, while the face value of the equity shares is Rs. 2 each. The offer comprises fresh issue of Rs. 110 crore and an offer-for-sale aggregating up to 3.56 crore equity shares, which includes 84 lakh equity shares held by promoter Mr. Soota and 2.72 crore shares by a private equity firm. Happiest Minds said some 97% of its revenue came from digital transformation related activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/happiest-minds-public-offer-to-open-on-sept-7/article32509380.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||New directors for Hyundai board||South Korean carmaker Hyundai Motor India Ltd. has announced the induction of two directors on its board, who will hold office as whole-time directors for a period of three years with effect from August 24. S. Ganesh Mani, director, Production, and Tarun Garg, director, Sales, Marketing & Service, have been designated as whole-time directors, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-directors-for-hyundai-board/article32509394.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||LIC Housing plans to raise Rs 50,500 crore||LIC Housing Finance on Wednesday said it would seek shareholders’ approval in the upcoming annual general meeting this month to raise up to Rs. 50,500 crore by issuing debt securities or other hybrid instruments on a private placement basis.   LIC Housing Finance said its overall borrowing power is Rs. 3 lakh crore and the proposed fund-raise plan is within the limit.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-housing-plans-to-raise-rs-50500-crore/article32509395.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||Tata Motors unveils Nexon variant||Tata Motors has announced the introduction of the XM(S) variant of Tata Nexon from Rs. 8.36 lakh onwards. It is available in petrol and diesel variants. Vivek Srivatsa, head, marketing, passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors, said, “With this addition to our Nexon range, we will provide customers with premium driving pleasure and state-of-the-art features at attractive prices.“||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-unveils-nexon-variant/article32509398.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||IL&FS gets NCLT approval for sale of education assets||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has approved the sale of the education assets of debt-ridden infrastructure firm IL&FS to Lexington Equity Holdings Ltd. A two-member Mumbai bench of the NCLT approved the sale of IL&FS’ 73.69% stake in Schoolnet India, formerly known as IL&FS Education & Technology Services, to Falafal Technology Pvt. Ltd.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-gets-nclt-approval-for-sale-of-education-assets/article32509400.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Nagal eyes Thiem upset||Sumit Nagal’s opening act on tennis’ biggest stage came against Roger Federer at the US Open last year, a performance rather well remembered, for he snatched a set away from the Swiss maestro. Come Thursday, he will have a shot at a worthy follow-up against Dominic Thiem after a 6-1, 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 win over American Bradley Klahn on Tuesday, his first-ever success in the main draw of a Major and also the first by an Indian in seven years since Somdev Devvarman (US Open, 2013). “It was not easy,” Nagal said after beating Klahn, who was once ranked as high as 63. “I [still] needed four sets. I played a tournament before coming here (Challenger in Prague) while he hadn't, and that made the difference. I thought I played pretty smart tennis and the result is there [for everyone to see].” Single-minded focus During the five-month lockdown period, the World No. 124 stayed put in Europe and focused single-mindedly on improving his fitness and serve, both aspects that shone in the opening round. In what was only his second best-of-five-set match ever, he held on pretty well, while landing 80% of his first serves, winning 77% of those points and conceding just two break-point opportunities. “Winning your first match at a Slam is very important,” said Somdev. “Last year he was playing very well but drew Roger. This time he got in and took advantage. He has to get a lot of credit for the way he has improved in the last 18 months or so, all the way up from being [ranked] in the 350s. We now hope he plays well and pushes Thiem to the maximum.” The World No. 3 and tournament’s second seed, however, will be a daunting opponent. Where Nagal thrived against Federer at the Arthur Ashe Stadium in front of 23,000 fans, the motivation this time has to come from within. But the 23-year-old is upbeat. “There is nothing to lose. It’s a great match to play and I am excited,” he said. “Both of us haven’t had much practice on hard courts. Exhibitions [that Thiem has played] are different because you do not compete for real points. So, it's going to be the same for the both of us.” Thiem’s take Thiem, who overcame Jaume Munar after the latter retired when two sets down, refused to take Nagal lightly. “I actually saw his full match last year against Roger. He was playing well. I remember he had an amazing forehand, like a really, really good one. So maybe I'll see some of those highlights and some from the latest match.”  Something different to try... the colour was supposed to coal grey. Then I got lazy and it became blonde Nagal on his new hairstyle||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-eyes-thiem-upset/article32509549.ece
03 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Abreco Freight to sponsor Luca SC||The Malappuram-based professional football club Luca Soccer Club has roped in the Dubai-based Abreco Freight LLC as its sponsor for the 2020-21 season. Luca SC, which was formed in 2017, played in the Kerala Premier League (KPL) last season and finished third in its group. The club announced the tie-up with Abreco Freight LLC on its Instagram account and on its Twitter handle. “This is a historical day for Luca SC which was formed three years ago to promote football in Malappuram. We were on the lookout for a sponsor and had approached a few corporate houses in India and abroad. Abreco was impressed with our future plans and they decided to support us. The company has strong links with Kerala and are keen on promoting Kerala and Indian football in big way. We are happy to have them on board,” said K.V. Navas, director of the club. Luca SC has set its sights on playing in the I-League next season but the club wants to achieve this by doing the hard yards, according to its CEO Waivaw Srivastav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abreco-freight-to-sponsor-luca-sc/article32509840.ece
03 September 2020||Barcelona,||‘Difficult’ for Messi to stay at Barcelona||Jorge Messi, father and agent of Lionel Messi, said on Wednesday he thinks it will be “difficult” for his son to stay at Barcelona. Messi senior landed in Barcelona on Wednesday ahead of talks with the club’s president Josep Maria Bartomeu about the striker’s intention to leave this summer. Messi senior flew in from the Argentine city of Rosario, landing at the private terminal in Barcelona’s El Prat airport on Wednesday morning. Asked by reporters about the possibility of Messi staying, Jorge Messi said: “Difficult”. He was then asked how he sees his son’s future at Barca, to which he replied: “Difficult, difficult”. No talks with City When the prospect of joining Manchester City was put to him, he said: “There’s nothing yet.” It was suggested he had spoken already to City coach Pep Guardiola. “I didn’t talk to Pep,” Jorge Messi said. “Not to anyone.” Jorge Messi will be hoping to unblock the stand-off between Barca and his son, which threatens to descend into an expensive and bitter legal battle if a resolution cannot be found. The 33-year-old striker boycotted Barcelona’s first pre-season training session on Monday, as he tries to force his way out of the club he joined as a 13-year-old. Messi also failed to attend a coronavirus test at the training ground on Sunday. Yet Barcelona insists its captain will only depart if his €700m release clause is activated, a stance that has been backed up by La Liga, which says that release clause still applies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/difficult-for-messi-to-stay-at-barcelona/article32509556.ece
03 September 2020||Kolkata,||Shree Cement to invest in East Bengal||East Bengal announced Shree Cement as its new investor here on Wednesday, a development which will help it tide over financial problems and provide a chance to play in the country’s top league — ISL. “After this agreement we will be in a position to appeal to ISL and hope to participate in the tournament,” Debabrata Sarkar, a key East Bengal official, said while making the announcement in presence of the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The announcement happened at the State government headquarters, Nabanna, where the agreement was finalised on the directive of the CM. “I was worried about the crisis in Bengal football. But we are all relieved now that the problem has been solved. East Bengal will now play the ISL together with Mohun Bagan, which got into the ISL previously because of a similar kind of an agreement,” Ms. Banerjee said. Ever since she was approached by East Bengal officials early in May, the CM was trying to bail the club out of its distress. It is because of her efforts that East Bengal finds itself in a position to realise its ISL dreams. Shree Cement is a cement behemoth having its corporate headquarters in the city. It is said to have acquired a 76% the stake in the club. According to sources, East Bengal’s new investor has agreed to keep both its emblem and colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shree-cement-to-invest-in-east-bengal/article32509899.ece
03 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Nagarkoti keen to fire||Young speedster Kamlesh Nagarkoti is eager to pick fellow Kolkata Knight Riders pacer Pat Cummins’ brain about handling injury-related setbacks. Nagarkoti, who missed two seasons of the Indian Premier League (IPL) due to injuries, found a role model in Cummins when his mentor Rahul Dravid cited the Aussie’s example (at the National Cricket Academy). “Once I was playing table tennis when Dravid sir passed by. He stopped for a while and said, ‘You look sad. I can understand what you are going through but try and take it positively.’ Then he referred to Cummins’ absence from cricket for three-four years and said, ‘When he returned to cricket, he ensured he became the No. 1 bowler in the world,’” Nagarkoti told the team’s website. The 20-year-old — who along with fellow paceman Shivam Mavi found special mention in Sourav Ganguly’s tweet after India’s under-19 World Cup triumph in 2018 — was keen to meet Cummins. “I want to ask him what mindset he had had during those three-four years (with injury), how he kept himself motivated and how he prepared himself for the comeback.” The Rajasthan pacer looked forward to making a new start in IPL 2020. “I have changed a few aspects in my bowling after consulting my coach Surender sir and KKR bowling coach Omkar Salvi sir.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagarkoti-keen-to-fire/article32509901.ece
03 September 2020||Mumbai,||Rahul wants KXIP to peak at the right time||Kings XI Punjab captain K.L. Rahul feels the players are quite motivated for the IPL despite being in the bio-bubble in the UAE. “We are happy that everybody is here and is part of the team after a long wait. Every other season, when we play the IPL, the players come with a lot of cricket behind them. They feel good and they know where they stand. This time, the challenge is different because we all have been indoors for a long time,” Rahul told Sportstar from Dubai on Wednesday. The tournament, starting September 19, will be Rahul’s first as captain of a franchise. He wants to build his side slowly and peak at the right time. “I think for the captain and the coaching group, it is very important to hold the players back a little bit because everybody is eager to do a lot of things. We have to make sure that our bodies are used to the load and we pick up the intensity slowly and peak at the right time,” he said. Rahul praised head coach Anil Kumble and the support staff for keeping the team together. “They make sure that everybody is looked after well and we are physically and mentally ready before the first game starts. My job is to see that the boys are preparing well and have their roles clear in the head,” said the wicketkeeper-batsman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-wants-kxip-to-peak-at-the-right-time/article32509551.ece
03 September 2020||Chennai,||Backing up early is ‘cheating’: Ponting||Delhi Capitals coach Ricky Ponting has suggested imposing a run penalty on the batting team every time a non-striker leaves the crease before the ball is delivered as a solution to avoid the debate surrounding the mode of dismissal. Ponting recently said he would talk with his team’s star bowler R. Ashwin to dissuade the latter from running batsmen out at the non-striker’s end for backing up early. Ashwin faced criticism for dismissing Rajasthan Royals’ Jos Buttler in this manner during the last IPL. “I wasn’t saying you weren’t justified because within the laws of the game you can do it,” Ponting said on Ashwin’s YouTube channel. “I just feel we have to find a way around to stop the batsmen from cheating. I don't want to see anyone running two or three yards down the wicket because that basically is cheating.” Ponting, incidentally, was a member of the MCC cricket committee that had endorsed a change to the wording of the law in 2016, effectively allowing bowlers more leeway to complete the run out. “If you are to get to the top of your bowling action and stop, and it shows that the batsman is cheating and is out of his crease, I think put a run penalty on them,” Ponting said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/backing-up-early-is-cheating-ponting/article32509602.ece
03 September 2020||MANCHESTER,||Hafeez stars as Pakistan ties series||Mohammad Hafeez scored a scintillating unbeaten 86 (52b, 4x4, 6x6) as Pakistan held its nerve to defeat England by five runs in the third and final T20I at Old Trafford on Tuesday to tie the series 1-1. Sent into bat, Pakistan posted 190 for four in 20 overs as Hafeez and debutant Haider Ali (54, 33b, 5x4, 2x6)) put on 100 for the third wicket, before restricting England to 185 for eight despite Moeen Ali’s brave 61 (33b, 4x4, 4x6). England was in early trouble in its reply and was reduced to 69 for four before Moeen and Sam Billings put on 57 for the fifth wicket. The former kept his side in the game with some power hitting, leaving it needing 20 from the last two overs. But a superb 19th over from Wahab Riaz, which went for three runs and included the wicket of Moeen, sealed it for the visitors.  The scores: Pakistan 190/4 in 20 overs (Hafeez 86 n.o., Haider 54, Jordan 2/26) bt England 185/8 in 20 overs (Banton 46, Moeen 61, Afridi 2/28, Riaz 2/26). Series drawn 1-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hafeez-stars-as-pakistan-ties-series/article32509528.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘You may see me back in CSK camp in some time’||Suresh Raina has broken his silence over his unexpected pullout from the IPL, saying he returned to India for his family and he might even fly back to Dubai to rejoin the Chennai Super Kings (CSK) for the tournament beginning on September 19. Raina also denied reports claiming a rift between him and his longtime franchise. “It was a personal decision and I had to come back for my family. There was something that needed to be addressed immediately on the home front. “CSK is my family too and Mahi bhai (M.S. Dhoni) is very important to me and this was a tough decision,” Raina told Cricbuzz . “There is no issue between CSK and me. Nobody will just turn their back on Rs. 12.5 crore and walk away without a solid reason.  “I am looking forward to playing for them in the IPL for the next four-five years,” he said. He also dropped a hint on rejoining the team in Dubai when asked about his future with CSK. “I’ve been training even while quarantining here. You never know you might see me in the camp there again,” said the southpaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/you-may-see-me-back-in-csk-camp-in-some-time/article32509545.ece
03 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Olympiad triumph needs right recognition: Srinath||He first made headlines in 2005 when he won the World Under-12 chess championship. N. Srinath may not have quite lived up to that promise he showed as a player, but in the past few days he has been in the news again – for his contribution as a non-playing captain to India’s victory at the online Chess Olympiad. He was coach, manager, data analyst and facilitator of the players' internet connections, all rolled into one. He is delighted that his efforts have not gone in vain as India was declared joint-champion with Russia. “I was confident that we could go all the way and win the title,” Srinath told The Hindu over the phone from Chennai.  As a coach, he worked more with the juniors in the team. “When it came to choosing which players would play in which round and on which board, myself and the playing captain Vidit Gujrathi took the decisions mostly,” he said. “We also had discussions with seniors like Viswanathan Anand and Koneru Humpy.” He is happy that the victory at the Olympiad has caught the imagination of the public. The Olympiad made waves on Twitter, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Sachin Tendulkar and Anand Mahindra were among those to congratulate the team. But thus far, no government or organisation has announced any reward. “It is a bit disappointing that this team hasn't got any reward despite emerging the champion in a global tournament in which 163 countries took part,” Srinath said. “It is equally frustrating to note the no chess player has won an Arjuna Award for seven years, despite so many exceptional performances during the period.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympiad-triumph-needs-right-recognition-srinath/article32509842.ece
03 September 2020||Kochi,||Blasters signs Facundo||The Kerala Blasters FC announced its first foreign signing on Wednesday, roping in Argentinian midfielder Facundo Abel Pereyra for the coming Indian Super League. Pereyra, who hails from the port city of Zarate, started his career with the amateur side Estudiantes De Buenos Aires in 2006 and made his professional debut in 2009 when he was sent on loan to Chile’s Palestino. The creative midfielder, who can also play as a striker, was in action in leagues in Chile, Mexico and Argentina after that but it was his three-year stay in Greece, where he played for PAOK, which was very productive. In 2018, the left-footer joined Apollon Limassol and scored 14 goals and made three assists in 53 appearances. The midfielder joins KBFC to boost its attacking options and the club hopes his experience and quality would help it immensely. “Playing in India is a pleasant surprise to my footballing career,” said Pereyra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-signs-facundo/article32509843.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Bonding time||Caption: Bonding time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bonding-time/article32509547.ece
03 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Jaspal Rana felicitated by Rotary||Shooting legend Jaspal Rana was felicitated by the Rotary Club of Madras East and Saraswathi Vidyalaya for his contribution as a coach. The award was given away ‘virtually’ by former National coach Sunny Thomas. The 44-year-old, currently the coach of the National junior pistol team, was recently conferred with the Dronacharya Award. Asked about the pandemic break, Rana said, “All the shooters have been training at their homes, shooting in matches with the same machines that will be used at Tokyo.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaspal-rana-felicitated-by-rotary/article32509553.ece
03 September 2020||KOCHI:,||RSC elections in October||The election of office-bearers of the Regional Sports Centre (RSC), for 2020 to 2022, will be held on October 18 at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium, Kadavanthra. Prior to that, the RSC’s annual general body meeting will be held over Zoom on Sept. 19. Visit www.rsccochin.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rsc-elections-in-october/article32509839.ece
03 September 2020||MUMBAI,||CRED joins as official IPL partner||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced CRED — a credit card payment app — as an official partner of the IPL for the next three editions, including 2020. “Delighted to have a brand as unique and innovative as CRED as an IPL partner till IPL 2022,” Brijesh Patel, IPL chairman, said in a statement. CRED joins Altroz and Unacademy as official partners of the IPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cred-joins-as-official-ipl-partner/article32509543.ece
03 September 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI medical team member tests positive||A member of BCCI’s medical team in the UAE has tested positive for COVID-19. An IPL insider told The Hindu that the person is asymptomatic and has been isolated from the rest of the BCCI operations team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-medical-team-member-tests-positive/article32509542.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 08:06 IST,||Sudoku - September 3, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-3-2020/article32510320.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Mezze||Although Al Kebab company is closing, for now, there is plenty of activity on at Anush Rajasekaran’s flagship restaurant Mezze. The pandemic has forced restaurants to be lean and flexible to keep up with a constantly shifting environment. Over the past few months, this has resulted in more-focussed, confident, practical ventures pivoting on the strengths of the kitchen and space. Popular for its shawarmas , souvlaki and lahmajoun , Mezze is enhancing its café experience, with better coffee beans and brews. Explaining how they have cut down on seating, to enable physical distancing, Anush says they will be offering Arabian and Turkish coffees, and are ultimately working towards opening a Middle Eastern bakery. For now, as many of their customers drop in for takeaway, the counter (which should open in two weeks) will be in the restaurant, offering pistachio cookies, pita breads and, of course, a range of baklava . They will also stock dried fruits, nuts and medjool dates eventually. In the meantime, they are working with restaurateur Sandesh Reddy on a range of unusual ice creams, with flavours like roasted pistachios. And roses with pepper corns.  Call Mezze on 917604853796||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mezze/article32509354.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A touch of faith||Conversations with your father can be taxing at times. At other times, they can be richly rewarding. As it has been for 20-year-old Pavan O, a third year ECE student at Chennai Institute of Technology. During the second lockdown, on a day when he had little else to do, Pavan had a casual chat with his father, Hari Krishna, about the world during COVID-19. Their discussion veered towards temples. “Our neighbourhood, Kolathur, has quite a few temples and we wondered how the new normal there would be once places of worship reopened,” recalls Pavan. One thing led to another and soon, Pavan, who is passionate about mechanical engineering, worked on a prototype that he believed would change the way places of worship would function in the future: a touchless vibhuti and kungumam dispenser. Anybody who goes to a temple comes back armed with kungumam for the family. This offering is usually given by the archakars at the temple or kept at a common area for devotees to take from, thus increasing the risk of contracting COVID-19. “My invention is to help devotees have a peaceful time at the temple and be free from concerns about their health during the darshan ,” says Pavan. His eco-friendly dispenser is enclosed in a 3D printed container and uses a small microcontroller and the Auger mechanism to dispense the vibhuthi or kungumam . All you need to do is keep your hand at a distance from the sensor; it is similar to the experience you have with touchless water taps at luxuryhotels and malls. New normal “Like wearing a mask, this could probably be the new normal in temples,” says Pavan, who did his schooling at Kolathur’s Durgadevi Choudhary Vivekananda Vidyalaya and Jaigopal Garodia, “It helped that we have a 3D printer at home; it was useful in generating the prototype for the product.” Pavan plans to soon patent the design of his current model, made of a 3D printed plastic material called PLA+. He estimates that one unit will cost about Rs. 1,500, and is ready to assemble more if temple authorities reach out to him. “If they are interested, this unit could be made in sheet metal, which is generally used in making the hundis that we see in temples. That would be ideal for long-term use,” says Pavan, whose vision is to set up something on the lines of Mumbai’s Maker’s Asylum, a learning space that helps people get their hands dirty and make ideas happen. “That will happen someday. My lab at home already has a 3D printer, CNC router machine and power tools that help in prototyping,” he says excitedly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-touch-of-faith/article32509344.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The city in a room||Sharing its name with a form of classical Tamil poetry that merges metric rules with context-free verse, a humble space, with wooden floors and a sleek design is the newest entrant in Chennai’s visual arts culture. Set in T Nagar’s GN Chetty Road, the space — christened Vennba — dons the garb of one that is exquisitely Madras. The wall currently sports work by young, promising city artists, Varshini Ramakrishnan and Sunil Raghavendher, both of whose muse happens to be the 381-year-old city and its people. In a bold move amid the pandemic, when art galleries are scurrying to occupy the digital space, Vennba opened its physical space in the last week of August aiming to encourage people to stay in touch with the gallery-viewing experience, all safety precautions in place. The curated art studio created by design firm, Pencil and Monk, hopes to bridge the gap between the buyer and artist. Designer and former movie director Sidharth Chandrasekhar, is the brains behind the space. “A lot of art is becoming part of interior design, now. For smaller homes, it is becoming a challenge to develop art that is affordable and aesthetic,” says Sidharth. This is where Vennba wishes to come in: to direct attention to locally-made works that are affordable and can be passed down generations. And, in the process, Sidharth hopes to put the spotlight on local, up and coming artists. “I am trying my best to get artists who have never been featured, or have had an opportunity to show,” he adds. The series that are currently on display fall around the price of Rs. 3,000.  The fact that the space opened with an exhibition titled Madras Nalla Madras, featuring young, city artists is the testament to the same. Varshini’s Madras Makkal series is an exploration of the people who make Madras, through pop art-inspired prints, patterns and colours that are specific to the city. Sunil’s Madrasa Suthipaka Porein and Madras Jannal series give glimpses into the city’s heritage and cultural icons: from its windows, replete with an architectural style specific to a particular area (identified by pincodes) to oft-seen landmarks like Marina beach. “We made it limited edition. They are also Chennai memories that can be taken home or gifted,” Sidharth adds. Though he is not getting many walk-ins, he is not flustered. “I want people to slowly start coming in. We have arranged one-hour slots, during which we allow five to six people,” he explains.  Vennba art gallery is open from 10.30 am to 6.30 pm, appoinments can be made at 9884636750.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-city-in-a-room/article32509374.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||In another life||Reality could have been kinder to Bella Marcu. After staying home to take care of her late husband, who passed away in December last year, she was once more home-bound in Frankfurt, Germany, due to the pandemic. Yet, throughout this period of social distancing — at age 79, she is at greater risk from the novel Coronavirus — she has not been alone. “Second Life has been and still is, a wonderful company for me,” says Bella, of the virtual world simulation game that encourages roleplay and socialising. With the year on hold in real life, her virtual social life has been dynamic. On Second Life, sweet Mrs Marcu is a fashionable model, Anabelle Mayo. “I have met interesting people, made friends and gotten to understand different cultures from all over the world, which is built to the original real life version,” she says. As Anabelle, she has also developed new hobbies, including taking up modelling courses, participating in fashion shows and learning Spanish at an institute in Second Life. The latter has come in handy in real life where she broadcasts Spanish and English songs as a DJ. During the past five months, virtual life simulation games such as Second Life have been seeing a lot of play. The game, launched in 2003, saw 1,500 times more hours on mobile during the lockdown (March 2020 till July 2020) globally. And it makes sense. Forced to socially distance, entertainment avenues in the real world may be few, but virtually, you can still visit hotels in different outfits, lounge around resort pools and solve puzzles, as in a game like Hotel Hideaway. Or roleplay, meet, flirt and date other players as in the more explicit multiverse, IMVU. It is perhaps even more fun now to channel what could have been your life, if not for the pandemic, on The Sims 4’s realistic virtual world. You may not be able to go out, but the Sims you create can live in new homes, go on vacation, and start families. Finding communities If it’s Second Life that occupies Bella for two to four hours every day, Mumbai-based Gagan Gupta and his 11-year-old daughter’s current passion is Animal Crossing: New Horizons (ACNH). Here on a virtual island, his daughter goes to the lake to fish, while he finishes chopping wood. Deciding he does not like one part of the town enough, he relocates his neighbours — with their consent — to another location while he destroys the area to build it up from scratch. The game, which puts you in charge of designing your virtual island and all its AI anthropomorphic animal residents, was released on Nintendo Switch in March this year, and has seen downloads by the millions. “I started playing on March 24 and I have clocked well over 350 hours in this game,” says Gagan. “I hate to put it like this…” he explains the appeal of Animal Crossing, “but it’s like a dollhouse,” he laughs. The 42-year-old runs a gaming consultancy DTR and has been observing gaming in India for a couple of decades now. While he agrees that it is action games such as PUBG that rule favour, the charm of virtual world building games lies in the creativity they require. “Once you create things, you just keep wanting to go one step further in making it better. Some kind of an OCD takes over!” Gagan says. His own island on Animal Crossing is rated five star and features elaborate flower arrangements, a camping site and a wedding area. Gagan’s Zen garden with its pebbled paths and peaceful running water ponds has a mostly-chilled out but occasionally fire-breathing Godzilla statue. You can trade furniture and pop culture décor items like these on various groups on community platform Discord. There are currently over five lakh people on one such group Nookazon, where you can sell and buy ACNH items through Nookmiles tickets, which can later be used to visit other AI-generated islands on the game. The players’ personal details are kept anonymous, as many may well be in their teens. But for 17-year old A Sahiti, the draw into virtual worlds over this summer, was not socialising with friends away from school, it was building new worlds at home. A whole new world “I miss my house,” Sahiti half-whines, sitting in her house in Dehradun. With her laptop given away for servicing temporarily, she has been forced to take a break from designing houses on The Sims 4, a daily ritual she has been devoted to, for the past couple of months. Just before her laptop crashed, she was in the process of making a vacation home near hot springs and forests, for college-going friends. Before that, she made a Victorian-looking house for an elderly couple living with their granddaughter, a military bunker with a secret laboratory in the basement, and a modest home for an artist couple: “He is an artist, and she is a freelance photographer,” states Sahiti, adding, “I like building families and their homes. Even in real life, each house has its own story, you know?” If not for the pandemic, Sahiti and her friends had big plans for the summer before they left for their colleges in different cities. The Sims 4 is a decent alternative. You can be stuck inside a 2BHK on rent and still create mansions. “It’s the power you hold over simulations’ lives that is addictive,” she says. The knowledge that few lives, albeit pixel, depend on your management skills keeps players hooked on to virtual life simulation games. In Animal Crossing the world runs on real life time; a rainy afternoon in August is the same in the game. In Virtual Families, on the other hand, time runs faster. You can’t go to sleep assuming your creations will too. By the time you wake up and log on again, they will have caused chaos. So you need to compensate for your absence by, say, making sure that the fridge is well stocked. Despite demanding such commitment, games like these have many fans. And that is because, “Whatever you don’t get to do in real life, whoever you don’t get to be in real life, you get to do and be here without any consequences!” says Sahiti. For regular players however, the freedom to live completely alternative lives does not mean a drastic change in their virtual avatars. Whatever she may look like, Anabelle is still Bella Marcu: a hardworking and energetic woman, cheerful and sincere in her feelings. Explains Bella, “She is my virtual representative but clearly the character and the way she presents herself is my person. It is said that in the virtual world we play a role through our avatar, but actually, people continue their way of being and thinking as in their real lives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-another-life/article32509371.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Twitter via windows||For Nature enthusiasts, wildlife explorers and jungle photographers, the unprecedented lockdown brought down the curtains on their plans of a summer getaway. The rare trees in Chennai within Adyar Theosophical Society and Guindy Reserve Forest completed their flowering between April and June, oblivious to the eyes of the tree gazers. Even with slight relaxations then and there in Chennai, a visit to the local Pallikarnai marsh or a scrub jungle was quite an apprehensive one. However, lockdown prompted us to start birding in the vicinity of our confined spaces. The usual raucous crows, pigeons, mynas and rose-ringed parakeets in the bustling Ayanavaram area, encompassed with market clamour, traffic, vendor calls and festivities on loudspeaker were quickly transposed with red vented bulbuls, white-throated kingfisher, flameback woodpeckers, Asian cuckoos, sparrows, purple-rumped sunbirds, tailor birds, wagtails, coppersmith barbets and even a rare Jacobin cuckoo. This diversity is unusual for the dense, high-decibel area, though Alexandrian parakeet and chestnut-winged cuckoo have been observed earlier. With just a single badminton ball tree and a few mango, neem, coconut, gulmohar, yellow bell, guava and small clusterfig trees in the vicinity, it was refreshing to witness the flutter of these birds each sharing as well as demarcating its niche, among sparse greenery and crowded housing areas. Choice of haunt The coconut trunk was the target of woodpeckers, every morning. The baretreetop had coppersmith barbets bobbing their heads after an insect catch, often harassed by crows and bulbuls. These barbets made a quick flight to the neighbouring fig tree and after a mouthful flew back to the leafless top niche. A pair of koel too, enjoyed its space among the figs. The noisiest in the batch were the tailor birds, quite contrary to their teeny size. Even a slight movement for a closer look through the window startle them and they took off immediately. The Jacobin cuckoo was a neat surprise, perched on the fig tree one morning. Allegedly, their visit brings rain and surprisingly, there was a brief shower in Chennai the next day. Sunbirds regularly visited the yellow bells, not for pollination but for nectar theft. The white-browed wagtails raised a family after co-sharing the pigeon feed. A parakeet chick gradually matured in a concrete hole. Sometimes, black kites circled above. An egret flock crossed over, whistling ducks flew past and few solitary pelicans showcased wheeling in the evening sky… Beauty and biodiversity lie in the eyes of the beholder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/twitter-via-windows/article32509377.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncharted territory||In the space of four months, Tamil cinema has had markedly different responses to two separate instances of films opting for a digital première. Jyotika’s Ponmagal Vandhal , which released on Amazon Prime Video on May 29, kicked off the trend and also caused much consternation in the theatre-distributor chain. Amid backlash, industry veterans came forward and spoke in favour of actor Suriya (who is also Ponmagal Vandhal ’s producer), reassuring key stakeholders that films featuring big stars would not be sold to over-the-top (OTT) streaming service providers. Suriya himself said as much when interacting with his fans online in June, insisting he was eager to watch Soorarai Pottru on the big screen. Landmark decision If you did not know already, Soorarai Pottru will also have a digital première (October 30) via Amazon Prime Video; theatres are unlikely to re-open with COVID-19 cases still rising. However, there was no backlash. Suriya’s decision (which he announced via Twitter on August 22) has been grudgingly taken on the chin. Perhaps, optimism is slowly making way for realism in Tamil cinema, though the burning question is: will more big star films follow suit? One need not read between the lines to gather that the only word this question is bound to raise on everyone’s lips is Master . Industry observers speculate that the Vijay-starrer cost its co-producer (SS Lalit Kumar of Seven Screen Studio) around Rs. 200 crore to purchase from Xavier Britto of XB Film Creators, which, on face value, makes Master ’s production budget at least four or five times dearer than Soorarai Pottru . There are other films headlined by heroes with a defined market value like Dhanush’s Jagame Thandhiram or Jayam Ravi’s Bhoomi that are also pending release. Filmmaker Lakshman, director of Bhoomi , is of the opinion that Soorarai Pottru going the digital way would not necessarily influence or compel other producers to push their content to OTT platforms. “But the fact remains that there is no other way [to release a film] now. With more days gone, the producer’s mindset may change,” he says, when quizzed about Bhoomi ’s prospects of an OTT release. It is a recurring theme at the moment: producers insisting that their high value films are not up for OTT release. S Sashikanth of Y NOT Studios, the producer of Jagame Thandhiram , wrote this tongue-in-cheek response on Twitter to speculations that Netflix was courting his film: “ Jagam (world) is still healing and not back to normal. Until then, be patient for the theatres to open and don’t believe in rumours.” Time factor Producer G Dhananjayan adds that “a lot of films are negotiating” with OTT platforms at the moment, but the problem seems to be the money these platforms are willing to front. Tamil cinema, unlike Bollywood films, has a limited audience reach (which reflects on the number of subscriptions an OTT service may project to gain). “I hear the difference in figures is as big as 50%,” he says. For instance, trade circles speculate that Akshay Kumar’s Laxmmi Bomb was sold to Disney+ Hotstar for Rs. 125 crore. “That was satellite and digital rights put together. Will Lalit sell if he is offered the same Rs. 125 crore as Laxmmi Bomb ? Of course not,” says Dhananjayan, adding, “The issue is no OTT player (with a TV channel link) is willing to front the fee for satellite and digital rights of Master . Also, assuming around 10% of Tamil population subscribes to OTTs to watch films, it is still only about 50-60 lakh people. Comparatively, 10% of the Hindi speaking population would mean around eight crore people. Bollywood has a significant numbers advantage.” What of the financial strain placed on a producer due to long delays, considering how nearly every Tamil film, as Ravinder Chandrasekaran of Libra Productions remarks, is funded by private financiers? “Do you think Sashi can hold onto Jagame Thandhiram for long? I doubt it. Maybe, now is not the right time to discuss, but it (OTT release) will happen,” says Ravinder, adding that the muted response to Suriya’s decision to go digital could be because producers are waiting to see how Soorarai Pottru ’s release impacts Amazon Prime’s business. “Because there are many producers who want to do business without being caught in the nexus of so-called ‘producer-distributor mafia’,” he says. Working in Suriya’s favour is the release model his production firm 2D Entertainment adopts: they distribute their own films. Meaning, there was no need for complicated negotiations with third parties before deciding on a digital release, something Lalit Kumar cannot avoid since he has already sold his content to distributors/theatres across the globe. “ Master is that one movie, which, when theatres re-open, can single-handedly bring audiences back. Lalit may be mindful of the time he can hold onto the film. At the same time, Vijay, too, can say that he would do another film for Lalit in case he incurs a loss on Master , if it releases on OTT,” Ravinder remarks. Alternative route? If not OTT, can network televisions with their wider reach step up and bring back satellite TV premières? Lack of advertising revenue (a knock-on effect of COVID-19) is a deterrent, says Siju Prabhakaran, executive vice president and cluster head - South business, ZEEL. He estimates that most TV networks suffered a 70-75% revenue drop during lockdown. “Advertising is still a large part of how the TV ecosystem survives. Maybe, smaller films could have satellite premières. Even so, for a TV première to be profitable, we will need a pay-per-view model backed by advertising. It is the same as how OTT’s put their premium content behind a paywall. A blended model could emerge eventually,” he adds.  Indispensable experience In his statement, Suriya insisted his decision was one he made as a producer and not the star. “If the long wait continues, anticipation on the film may get drastically diluted. This will not only affect me but also the people associated with my ongoing productions and their families,” he reasoned. Filmmaker Lakshman insists that without a COVID-19 vaccine, people will not return to theatres due to fear. But he is optimistic. Should theatres have no choice but operate at 35-50% occupancy for a period of time, Lakshman believes simultaneous OTT and theatre premières could emerge as a business model. “We have always had that 30-40% of the audience who wouldn’t go to theatres even in normal circumstances. Such a model could then be beneficial for customers as well as the producer,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/uncharted-territory/article32509360.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The past and the glorious||Agastya Theatre in Tondiarpet has seen it all. Since 1967, this cinema hall has been screening several MGR superhits, Sivaji Ganesan classics, Rajinikanth’s début outing Aboorva Raagangal and Vijay and Ajith releases. But the last three years have not been kind to this North Chennai landmark. The past few months have been especially hard, following the Government’s decision to close theatres due to COVID-19. With an unclear road ahead, the owners of Agastya Theatre called it quits this week. This 70 mm non-AC theatre, which could seat 1,004 people, was among the popular movie halls for residents of North Chennai, catering to both family audiences and the working class. “We could not keep up with current business trends and competition,” admits P Natarajan, who has been managing it since its inception, “We also did not get many new releases of late, and had to make do with old releases that did not make much money.” Let’s go to the movies The theatre was the brainchild of his uncle, K Nanjappa Chettiar, an advocate from Salem who was also passionate about engineering. His family was in the yarn business and set up the TNK Group, which was involved in the stainless steel and metals business. They also ventured into the film industry under a production house named Devi Films; they produced the Gemini Ganesan-starrer Konjam Salangai, well-known for being the first Technicolor feature film of South India, besides films like Azhiyatha Kolangal and Suhasini's début flick, Nenjathai Killathe . “Since we were into the production and distribution of films, we thought of venturing into theatres too,” he recalls. Agastya was thus constructed in 1967 on Tiruvottiyur High Road, on land that belonged to the family. A few years later, the family would set up another theatre on Mount Road; Devi, a cineplex that turned 50 recently and is still going strong. Agastya opened with much fanfare in 1967, with the K Balachander-directed Bama Vijayam.  Since then, it has seen several cinematic blockbusters of all the leading heroes of Tamil cinema, among which Kaavalkaran remains memorable. “It was MGR’s ‘comeback’ film after the well-known gunfire incident (referring to actor MR Radha shooting MGR). There was a lot of buzz surrounding it, and it was the first film that ran for 100 days at Agastya,” adds Natarajan. Agastya ran to packed houses in the ‘90s and early 2000s too. Their golden period was when the Jayalalithaa-run Government once announced that theatres could fix their own rates of admission for a film’s initial two-week run (a rate that was not more than 75% of the prescribed ticket rate). “Thankfully, there was also a lot of good content coming in.” Looking ahead Agastya also advanced with the times — they went in for the Dolby Digital sound system and digital projection. But that they were still a non-AC theatre did not help things much. “We explored the AC option at one point of time. But that would mean bringing down the height of the ceiling, thus ruining the beauty of the magnificent screen,” he explains. The future of Agastya Theatre premises is still unclear, but it did have a good run in the five decades that it survived. Interestingly, the last film screened just before lockdown was an MGR film titled Ragasiya Police 115 . When this film was first released on this very screen, way back in 1967, it ran for 100 days. In early 2020, during its re-release, about 30 people came for the shows. “Times have changed, and so have we,” signs off Natarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-past-and-the-glorious/article32509366.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s a wrap||For the past three months during lockdown, a small group of women in the village of Pakkam near Chennai, have been starting their day cleaning greens. The leaves, then wrapped in banana leaves, journey to the city to sit in the shelves of organic stores. “Customers simply have to wash the greens and start cooking,” says R Jaganathan of Nallakeerai, who started this initiative. “The women of Pakkam — around 10 of them — visit our facility between 6 am and 6 pm as per their convenience to clean the greens,” he explains. His team has been experimenting with the idea for the past six months, and has implemented it during the lockdown. “We’ve tried wrapping our greens in mantharai leaves, apart from biodegradable bags,” points out Jaganathan. “But ultimately, we realised that even such so-called biodegradable material have some amount of plastic in them.” The team finally zeroed in on the good old banana leaf. The cleaned greens are neatly wrapped and carry stick-on labels bearing the name of the varieties. “This arrangement is time saving for the customer,” Jaganathan says. “Any variety of greens takes around half-an-hour to clean. For some, such as aria keerai and mulai keerai especially, it can get tedious to separate individual leaves, unlike say, palak that has large leaves.” The best thing is, the banana leaf can be used to serve the day’s breakfast on. “This way, we also save on water by avoiding doing some extra dishes,” he adds.  Nallakeerai’s greens are now available at SunnyBee outlets, Dhanyam stores, and are also being delivered along with A2 milk.   The best thing is, the banana leaf can be used to serve the day’s breakfast on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/its-a-wrap/article32509350.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The age of innocence||Innocence beams through Lydian Nadhaswaram’s precisely-concise answers when we reach him for Atkan Chatkan , marking his début as an actor. Lydian was in Mumbai for an event when director Shiv Hare approached him with an acting offer. He had envisioned Lydian in the shoes of Guddu, the lead character of Atkan Chatkan . “He [Shiv] thought I’d be suitable for the boy’s character and spoke to my father, who told me to act,” says Lydian over phone from his home in Chennai. The director got a producer to fund the project and the movie was green-lit on the same day.  Atkan Chatkan is a rags-to-riches tale of Guddu, whose dreams of becoming a musician are quashed by his socio-economic background; he sells tea in a nearby shop. The story is about the boy’s journey to cocoon out of his socially-backward life, to become a talent to reckon with. When Shiv Hare narrated the storyline, it was the boy’s journey that appealed the most to Lydian — something he could relate to. But unlike Guddu, Lydian says he has not faced many roadblocks. “I started learning music at the age of two. I’ve had a normal life,” he says, adding, “But learning Hindi for this movie was a bit challenging.” More than playing the lead, Lydian sensed a quick opportunity to learn Hindi and, “to get to know the different crafts of movie making”. He adds, “This experience will help me when I become a composer.” Acting, by his own admission, was by accident. It was his father who convinced him that he could pull this off, given the subject of the film: a musical drama. Facing the camera is not new to Lydian, having won The World’s Best and appeared in numerous shows. But acting for a film was a different ballgame altogether, he agrees. He was not nervous on the day of shoot, but felt responsible for himself and for others. “I thought I shouldn’t waste anyone’s time and shouldn’t ask for retakes. I tried to wrap up things in a single take,” he says with a chuckle. There were many shots of him running away and breaking into tears. Not known to be too emotional in real-life, the scenes where Lydian was expected to have a breakdown were the ones he enjoyed doing. “I’m a happy person. But crying for the camera was a new experience for me,” he says, “Initially, we had to use glycerine but after a while, I got into the part and cried by myself.”  Atkan Chatkan is presented by Lydian’s mentor AR Rahman, whose crisp word of advicewas: “Good luck, buddy.” The movie, which was supposed to have a theatrical release in a pre-COVID world, is now gearing up for a direct-on-home release. In all, Lydian describes the shooting experience was akin to a highschool vacation he never had. “Most school-going kids of my age spend their holidays doing something apart from their routine. I never went to school... so Atkan Chatkan was my holiday.” Atkan Chatkan premieres on Zee5 on September 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-age-of-innocence/article32509336.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Life in La La Land||When she rang them up to convey her decision to quit a lucrative career in private equity to pursue stand-up comedy, Ambika Srinivas got a response characteristic of Indian parents. “My mom told me ‘Oh, I thought you were calling to tell me that you have finally found a husband!’,” she laughs. The Vancouver-based stand-up comic, who goes by the stage name Ambika Vas, is now a recurring face on Indian television thanks to her stint as a ‘foreign correspondent’ on the political satire show, The Week That Wasn’t , hosted by Cyrus Broacha. Reporting from her home (because there is a pandemic raging outside), Ambika offers short takes on the happenings in the West, particularly US politics, in pre-recorded videos to which Cyrus injects his own brand of humour. Switching careers in your thirties is an improbable task for anyone no matter one’s background or line of work. It was no different for Ambika. “It wasn’t just that I was leaving a traditional job but I was going to pursue one of the most difficult paths there is. But if I didn’t do it, I would always wonder,” she says, adding that her parents are her biggest supporters now. “To any person they meet, they ask‘Do you know someone in Hollywood who can help my daughter?’,” she laughs. Chasing dreams Ambika, who identifies herself “three-fourths Tamil” — her parents split time between Mumbai (where she grew up) and the Nilgiris (where they live now) — calls acting and comedy her lifelong passion. “Even when I was working, I was taking acting classes and doing improv and comedy on the side.” Her earlier career offered her a globetrotter’s life; she studied in Singapore, moved to London for work where she explored investment opportunities in African countries for her employer. Interestingly, she quit the day after she was promoted at work because, in her words: “I got my bonus and so I would have money to live off...” she laughs. Besides, watching an actor friend of hers get a breakthrough with the critically-acclaimed show Atlanta nudged her to make up her mind. “It was also the same year that La La Land had come out and it was also about chasing the dream,” she adds. Ambika conceived a stand-up skit called ‘The One Woman Show’, which she performed during a comedy event in New York a few years ago. During the trip, she also made sure to watch The Daily Show with Trevor Noah live as an audience member. “ The Daily Show and Last Week Tonight with John Oliver are shows I watch religiously. I absolutely love them and study them to observe how they write jokes,” she says. Soon, the comedienne started conceiving short comedy skits that she then uploaded via her YouTube channel and on Instagram. This caught the eye of Cyrus Broacha and thus started her association with The Week That Wasn’t . “What is perfect about this is that my first big role on TV is in India, and like all my parents’ friends who thought that I was crazy for switching careers, they now get to watch me on TV,” she laughs, adding, “It is the kind of perfect solution for the desi parents thing.” Besides her commitment with The Week That Wasn’t , Ambika is also pursuing acting opportunities and is writing scripts that are not comedies. While she first stepped into the entertainment scene with a stand-up skit, Ambika is certain that she intends to put out more political satire-based content. “It is something I enjoy. Between stand-up and satire, I prefer the latter. It is the area where I am able to create content quickly and frequently. I have done stand-up videos but I don’t feel they are so different [from what others do],” she laughs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-in-la-la-land/article32509904.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Bonding over a ballad||Mere khwaishein adhuri, ab hone lage poori, jab tum paas ho...   Teri ye manzoori, mere liye hai zaroori, jab tum paas ho...  The lyrics from the single, released on Monday by Salim-Sulaiman’s Merchant Records, are among the more beautiful poetic works one has heard in recent times. Says Salim, “We conceived it as a romantic ballad. And of course, Niranjan (lyricist Niranjan Iyengar) gave it a beautiful poetic dimension. The hummable track evokes powerful emotions of closeness — not just in a true romantic sense — but a strong longing and affection. It could be your parents, family, partner, friends, hobbies, passions... anything or anyone that holds an important role in your lives.” The song ‘Jab Tum Paas Ho’ was created much before the lockdown, though the video had not been shot. “We had initially thought of releasing it in March or April but we have been waiting for the lockdown to get easy to shoot the music video; and we finally shot the video with real people, not actors; that’s why it’s so special,” says Salim. The video was directed by Shakti Hasija. Ash King’s Bollywood tryst When Ash King met Salim and Sulaiman in England 10 years ago, they decided to work together and that has fructified into a reality. Says Ash about ‘Jab Tum…’, “For me, it was nice to tap into my RnB style of singing. To be able to sing that in an Indian song felt so fresh. I’ve worked with every major music director in the business except Salim -Sulaiman, so it was nice to get my first song with them.” Ash, who has sung numbers like ‘Auntyji’,‘Bandook meri Laila’ and ‘Te Amo’, feels singing in Bollywood has given him the versatility even though he leans towards soulful music. Connecting with us from Canada, Jonita Gandhi says, “I tried to channel my inner Ash King (laughs) while delivering the song, while bringing my own sound to the track. What I love about ‘Jab Tum Paas Ho’ is that it’s hard to put it into one specific genre; and that’s how I feel about my own personality as well.” Agreeing that the song is more relevant to present times, Jonita says, “These are times we need to be connected with our loved ones... we all need that human connection and knowing that we are not alone. It’s a great message to spread.” Lauding the composer duo, Ash says, “The vibe that you get with them (Salim-Sulaiman) is fresh. They are young modern music producers and am glad that they now have a label to do independent music that allows them to explore their musical creations outside of a Bollywood script.” Sharing the sentiment Jonita says, “I absolutely love recording with Salim-Sulaiman, Raj Pandit, and the entire team! I’ve recorded with them several times before, for a couple of singles, including ‘Tu Hai’ and ‘Jheeni Jheeni’.” Salim respects Jonita and Ash as singers and he feels they have great personalities in terms of lending voices with each other. ‘Since it was a romantic song, we needed a soothing voice that touches your heart and so they were our first choice and they did beautifully,” he says. Merchant Records’ emergence ‘Jab Tum Paas Ho’ is the fourth release under Merchant Records started by brothers Salim and Sulaiman. Sharing the intent behind the label, the duo says, “It is our way of building an open community that flourishes on the back of the talent and aspirations of musical talent in the country. Our label is a beautiful destination for creative people — be it singers, composers, lyricists or filmmakers.”Artistes like Grammy award-winner Ricky Kej, Vijay Prakash, Raj Pandit, Tapas, Ranjit Barot, Rajiv Sundaresan, will be releasing their music through Merchant Records shortly. The first video under Merchant Records label was ‘Maangi Duaein’ that featured Faisu and Ruhi Singh and was followed by ‘Beech Raaste’, a unique project released during the lockdown, set to a video that was created with the use of Apple’s Memoji technology — a first in the Indian music scene. On August 15, the label released its third music video, a soulful recreation of ‘Jana Gana Mana’, composed by Nikhil and Swapnil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bonding-over-a-ballad/article32509916.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||In another life||Reality could have been kinder to Bella Marcu. After staying home to take care of her late husband, who passed away in December last year, she was once more home-bound in Frankfurt, Germany, due to the pandemic. Yet, throughout this period of social distancing — at age 79, she is at greater risk from the novel Coronavirus — she has not been alone. “Second Life has been and still is, a wonderful company for me,” says Bella, of the virtual world simulation game that encourages roleplay and socialising. With the year on hold in real life, her virtual social life has been dynamic. On Second Life, sweet Mrs Marcu is a fashionable model, Anabelle Mayo. “I have met interesting people, made friends and gotten to understand different cultures from all over the world, which is built to the original real life version,” she says. As Anabelle, she has also developed new hobbies, including taking up modelling courses, participating in fashion shows and learning Spanish at an institute in Second Life. The latter has come in handy in real life where she broadcasts Spanish and English songs as a DJ. During the past five months, virtual life simulation games such as Second Life have been seeing a lot of play. The game, launched in 2003, saw 1,500 times more hours on mobile during the lockdown (March 2020 till July 2020) globally. And it makes sense. Forced to socially distance, entertainment avenues in the real world may be few, but virtually, you can still visit hotels in different outfits, lounge around resort pools and solve puzzles, as in a game like Hotel Hideaway. Or roleplay, meet, flirt and date other players as in the more explicit multiverse, IMVU. It is perhaps even more fun now to channel what could have been your life, if not for the pandemic, on The Sims 4’s realistic virtual world. You may not be able to go out, but the Sims you create can live in new homes, go on vacation, and start families. Finding communities If it’s Second Life that occupies Bella for two to four hours every day, Mumbai-based Gagan Gupta and his 11-year-old daughter’s current passion is Animal Crossing: New Horizons (ACNH). Here on a virtual island, his daughter goes to the lake to fish, while he finishes chopping wood. Deciding he does not like one part of the town enough, he relocates his neighbours — with their consent — to another location while he destroys the area to build it up from scratch. The game, which puts you in charge of designing your virtual island and all its AI anthropomorphic animal residents, was released on Nintendo Switch in March this year, and has seen downloads by the millions. “I started playing on March 24 and I have clocked well over 350 hours in this game,” says Gagan. “I hate to put it like this…” he explains the appeal of Animal Crossing, “but it’s like a dollhouse,” he laughs. The 42-year-old runs a gaming consultancy DTR and has been observing gaming in India for a couple of decades now. While he agrees that it is action games such as PUBG that rule favour, the charm of virtual world building games lies in the creativity they require. “Once you create things, you just keep wanting to go one step further in making it better. Some kind of an OCD takes over!” Gagan says. His own island on Animal Crossing is rated five star and features elaborate flower arrangements, a camping site and a wedding area. Gagan’s Zen garden with its pebbled paths and peaceful running water ponds has a mostly-chilled out but occasionally fire-breathing Godzilla statue. You can trade furniture and pop culture décor items like these on various groups on community platform Discord. There are currently over five lakh people on one such group Nookazon, where you can sell and buy ACNH items through Nookmiles tickets, which can later be used to visit other AI-generated islands on the game. The players’ personal details are kept anonymous, as many may well be in their teens. But for 17-year old A Sahiti, the draw into virtual worlds over this summer, was not socialising with friends away from school, it was building new worlds at home. A whole new world “I miss my house,” Sahiti half-whines, sitting in her house in Dehradun. With her laptop given away for servicing temporarily, she has been forced to take a break from designing houses on The Sims 4, a daily ritual she has been devoted to, for the past couple of months. Just before her laptop crashed, she was in the process of making a vacation home near hot springs and forests, for college-going friends. Before that, she made a Victorian-looking house for an elderly couple living with their granddaughter, a military bunker with a secret laboratory in the basement, and a modest home for an artist couple: “He is an artist, and she is a freelance photographer,” states Sahiti, adding, “I like building families and their homes. Even in real life, each house has its own story, you know?” If not for the pandemic, Sahiti and her friends had big plans for the summer before they left for their colleges in different cities. The Sims 4 is a decent alternative. You can be stuck inside a 2BHK on rent and still create mansions. “It’s the power you hold over simulations’ lives that is addictive,” she says. The knowledge that few lives, albeit pixel, depend on your management skills keeps players hooked on to virtual life simulation games. In Animal Crossing the world runs on real life time; a rainy afternoon in August is the same in the game. In Virtual Families, on the other hand, time runs faster. You can’t go to sleep assuming your creations will too. By the time you wake up and log on again, they will have caused chaos. So you need to compensate for your absence by, say, making sure that the fridge is well stocked. Despite demanding such commitment, games like these have many fans. And that is because, “Whatever you don’t get to do in real life, whoever you don’t get to be in real life, you get to do and be here without any consequences!” says Sahiti. For regular players however, the freedom to live completely alternative lives does not mean a drastic change in their virtual avatars. Whatever she may look like, Anabelle is still Bella Marcu: a hardworking and energetic woman, cheerful and sincere in her feelings. Explains Bella, “She is my virtual representative but clearly the character and the way she presents herself is my person. It is said that in the virtual world we play a role through our avatar, but actually, people continue their way of being and thinking as in their real lives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-another-life/article32509690.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncharted territory||In the space of four months, Tamil cinema has had markedly different responses to two separate instances of films opting for a digital première. Jyotika’s Ponmagal Vandhal , which was released on Amazon Prime Video on May 29, kicked off the trend and also caused much consternation in the theatre-distributor chain. Amid backlash, industry veterans came forward and spoke in favour of actor Suriya (who is also Ponmagal Vandhal ’s producer), reassuring key stakeholders that films featuring big stars would not be sold to over-the-top (OTT) streaming service providers. Suriya himself said as much when interacting with his fans online in June, insisting he was eager to watch Soorarai Pottru on the big screen. Landmark decision If you did not know already, Soorarai Pottru will also have a digital première (October 30) via Amazon Prime Video. However, there was no backlash. Suriya’s decision (which he announced via Twitter on August 22) has been grudgingly taken on the chin. Perhaps, optimism is slowly making way for realism in Tamil cinema, though the burning question is: will more big star films follow suit? One need not read between the lines to gather that the only word this question is bound to raise on everyone’s lips is Master . Industry observers speculate that the Vijay-starrer cost its co-producer (SS Lalit Kumar of Seven Screen Studio) around Rs. 200 crore to purchase from Xavier Britto of XB Film Creators, which, on face value, makes Master ’s production budget at least four or five times dearer than Soorarai Pottru . There are other films headlined by heroes with a defined market value like Dhanush’s Jagame Thandhiram or Jayam Ravi’s Bhoomi that are also pending release. Filmmaker Lakshman, director of Bhoomi , is of the opinion that Soorarai Pottru going the digital way would not necessarily influence or compel other producers to push their content to OTT platforms. “But the fact remains that there is no other way [to release a film] now. With more days gone, the producer’s mindset may change,” he says, when quizzed about Bhoomi ’s prospects of an OTT release. It is a recurring theme at the moment: producers insisting that their high value films are not up for OTT release. S Sashikanth of Y NOT Studios, the producer of Jagame Thandhiram , wrote this tongue-in-cheek response on Twitter to speculations that Netflix was courting his film: “ Jagam (world) is still healing and not back to normal. Until then, be patient for the theatres to open and don’t believe in rumours.” Time factor Producer G Dhananjayan adds that “a lot of films are negotiating” with OTT platforms at the moment, but the problem seems to be the money these platforms are willing to front. Tamil cinema, unlike Bollywood films, has a limited audience reach (which reflects on the number of subscriptions an OTT service may project to gain). “I hear the difference in figures is as big as 50%,” he says. For instance, trade circles speculate that Akshay Kumar’s Laxmmi Bomb was sold to Disney+ Hotstar for Rs. 125 crore. “That was satellite and digital rights put together. Will Lalit sell if he is offered the same Rs. 125 crore as Laxmmi Bomb ? Of course not,” says Dhananjayan, adding, “The issue is no OTT player (with a TV channel link) is willing to front the fee for satellite and digital rights of Master . Also, assuming around 10% of Tamil population subscribes to OTTs to watch films, it is still only about 50-60 lakh people. Comparatively, 10% of the Hindi speaking population would mean around eight crore people. Bollywood has a significant numbers advantage.” What of the financial strain placed on a producer due to long delays, considering how nearly every Tamil film, as Ravinder Chandrasekaran of Libra Productions remarks, is funded by private financiers? “Do you think Sashi can hold onto Jagame Thandhiram for long? I doubt it. Maybe, now is not the right time to discuss, but it (OTT release) will happen,” says Ravinder, adding that the muted response to Suriya’s decision to go digital could be because producers are waiting to see how Soorarai Pottru ’s release impacts Amazon Prime’s business. Working in Suriya’s favour is the release model his production firm 2D Entertainment adopts: they distribute their own films. Meaning, there was no need for complicated negotiations with third parties before deciding on a digital release, something Lalit Kumar cannot avoid since he has already sold his content to distributors/theatres across the globe. “ Master is that one movie, which, when theatres re-open, can single-handedly bring audiences back. Lalit may be mindful of the time he can hold onto the film. At the same time, Vijay, too, can say that he would do another film for Lalit in case he incurs a loss on Master , if it releases on OTT,” Ravinder remarks. Alternative route? If not OTT, can network televisions with their wider reach step up and bring back satellite TV premières? Lack of advertising revenue (a knock-on effect of COVID-19) is a deterrent, says Siju Prabhakaran, executive vice president and cluster head - South business, ZEEL. He estimates that most TV networks suffered a 70-75% revenue drop during lockdown. “Advertising is still a large part of how the TV ecosystem survives. Maybe, smaller films could have satellite premières. Even so, for a TV première to be profitable, we will need a pay-per-view model backed by advertising. It is the same as how OTT’s put their premium content behind a paywall. A blended model could emerge eventually,” he adds.  Indispensable experience In his statement, Suriya insisted his decision was one he made as a producer and not the star. “If the long wait continues, anticipation on the film may get drastically diluted. This will not only affect me but also the people associated with my ongoing productions and their families,” he reasoned. Filmmaker Lakshman insists that without a COVID-19 vaccine, people will not return to theatres due to fear. But he is optimistic. Should theatres have no choice but operate at 35-50% occupancy for a period of time, Lakshman believes simultaneous OTT and theatre premières could emerge as a business model. “We have always had that 30-40% of the audience who wouldn’t go to theatres even in normal circumstances. Such a model could then be beneficial for customers as well as the producer,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/uncharted-territory/article32509689.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A short film about love||During the lockdown, several filmmakers took to making short films focussing on loneliness and isolation of people in these uncertain times. However, director Vidhyaa B chose to tell a love story through her short, Oh Fish , which is about people learning to tide through the lockdown, despite the challenges. Vidhyaa, who has also written and produced the film, says that the short film was a creative collaboration between artistes from various entertainment fields. “I made it during the lockdown to keep myself occupied. There was no creative outlet at all during that time. We did follow all the safety protocols and the film was made over various calls between cast and crew. That is why I call this film a ‘lockdown special’.”  The nine-minute short talks of a young boy and girl who live alone, and how love blossoms between the two over video calls. The couple meets virtually when the delivery boy mixes up their orders. Having returned from abroad recently, the boy is quarantined at home. “Though it was easy to shoot it, putting the logistics together was challenging since our cinematographer is from Mumbai and the set designer in Kolkata,” says Vidhyaa, who worked as an associate in the Mani Ratnam-produced Five Star.   Oh Fish has music by Sreenidhi Venkat, while Shashaa Tirupati and Sanjith Hegde have sung the background score. “The film provided us with a creative outlet. Inspired by renewed and new connections made during the lockdown period, our film gives you a peek into some of the sweet friendships that resulted.” Produced by Kettles Studios, the film released on August 28. It stars Dheekshith Shetty (of Dia fame) and Vainidhi Jagdish. The bilingual film (Kannada and Telugu) is available on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-short-film-about-love/article32509913.ece
03 September 2020||September 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A touch of faith||Conversations with your father can be taxing at times. At other times, they can be richly rewarding. As it has been for 20-year-old Pavan O, a third year ECE student at Chennai Institute of Technology. During the second lockdown, on a day when he had little else to do, Pavan had a casual chat with his father, Hari Krishna, about the world during COVID-19. Their discussion veered towards temples. “Our neighbourhood, Kolathur, has quite a few temples and we wondered how the new normal there would be once places of worship reopened,” recalls Pavan. One thing led to another and soon, Pavan, who is passionate about mechanical engineering, worked on a prototype that he believed would change the way places of worship would function in the future: a touchless vibhuti and kungumam dispenser. Anybody who goes to a temple comes back with kungumam for the family. This offering is usually given by the archakars at the temple or kept at a common area for devotees to take from, thus increasing the risk of contracting COVID-19. “My invention is to help devotees have a peaceful time at the temple and be free from concerns about their health during the darshan ,” says Pavan. His eco-friendly dispenser is enclosed in a 3D printed container and uses a small microcontroller and the Auger mechanism to dispense the vibhuthi or kungumam . Place your hand at a distance from the sensor; it is similar to the experience you have with touchless water taps at luxury hotels and malls. “Like wearing a mask, this could probably be the new normal in temples,” says Pavan. “It helped that we have a 3D printer at home.” Pavan plans to soon patent the design of his current model, made of a 3D printed plastic material called PLA+. He estimates that one unit will cost about Rs. 1,500, and is ready to assemble more if temple authorities reach out to him. “If they are interested, this unit could be made in sheet metal, which is generally used in making the hundis that we see in temples. That would be ideal for long-term use,” says Pavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-touch-of-faith/article32509693.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||New cases touch 2-month high||The Capital on Wednesday recorded the highest number of daily new COVID-19 cases in over two months with 2,509 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases stood at 1,79,569. The last time a higher number of cases were reported was on July 3, when 2,520 cases were reported. Highest number of tests Delhi also conducted the highest number of COVID-19 tests in 24 hours, 28,835, since the virus outbreak in the city, according to Wednesday’s bulletin. The Delhi government is planning to train more personnel, including assistants at mohalla clinics, to collect samples for COVID-19 testing to double daily tests from 20,000 to 40,000, officials said. On August 26, after chairing a meeting on the upward trend in COVID-19 cases in the city, the Chief Minister had said that number of daily tests would be doubled in a week. Also, 19 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,481, as per the bulletin. Of the total cases, 1,58,586 people have recovered and there are 16,502 active cases. “The government is also working on tweaking the testing strategy, following court orders, and a new order is likely to be issued on it later this week,” a Delhi government official said. Wednesday also witnessed an increase in multiple other parameters — number of active cases, positive people under home isolation, and people admitted at hospitals. High active cases The number of active cases in the city on Wednesday was the highest in about 45 days, as per the bulletin. The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897, below the 10,000 mark in months, on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark. The number of positive people under home isolation was 8,407 on Wednesday and is the highest in over 40 days. People in hospitals, 4,278, are also the highest in over 45 days. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 894, which has been increasing for about 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-cases-touch-2-month-high/article32509722.ece
03 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab reports 106 COVID-19 deaths||Punjab on Wednesday reported 106 COVID-19 deaths, highest in a single day since the outbreak, taking the toll to 1,618. The State also saw 1,514 new cases. The number of positive cases have now reached 56,989. The major chunk of new cases, 242 and 171, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said delayed diagnosis of patients was the main cause of the high mortality rate. “As many as 67% of deaths were due to patients reporting at the health facilities after suffering severe signs and symptoms,” he said. Pointing to reports received from districts about resistance in communities to sampling and testing for the virus, Mr. Sidhu said even symptomatic persons with co-morbidities have not been reporting to the healthcare facilities till the disease becomes acute. “This is the cause for maximum deaths being among patients with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease,” he said, adding that more than 50% of the COVID deaths in the State have been among diabetics. The Minister said the delay in patients reporting at hospitals and healthcare facilities were on account of false propaganda and fake news being spread by anti-social elements regarding testing and isolation of patients and negative propaganda against health workers. ‘Take stern action’ Mr. Sidhu asked the Director General of Police to initiate stern action against anti-social elements spreading misinformation.  Meanwhile, Haryana recorded 1,792 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally of positive cases to 68,218. The State also reported 15 deaths. The major chunk of new cases, 184 and 152, were reported from Gurugram and Faridabad districts respectively. The active cases are 12,622 and 54,875 patients have so far recovered, said an official statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-reports-106-covid-19-deaths/article32509707.ece
03 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||25% of Gurugram police on COVID duty||As many as 207 Gurugram police personnel have tested positive for the deadly COVID-19 since the outbreak. Though 182 of them have recovered, an inspector-rank officer died. In the front-line of the fight against COVID-19, almost one-fourth of the police force in Gurugram is engaged in the COVID-19-related duties, including enforcement of lockdown directions and keeping vigil outside containment zones. “The police deployment for COVID-19-related duties has reduced a little over the past few weeks with the easing of the lockdown and reduction in the number of containment zones. Earlier, the police were also deployed outside isolation wards, quarantine centres and dedicated COVID-19 hospitals to prevent the inmates from fleeing, but now it is not required. The checkpoints to contain movement have also been lifted,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) Nitika Gahlaut. Against the sanctioned strength of 8,217, the Gurugram police have a strength of 5,993 personnel, including Home Guards and the Indian Reserve Battalion personnel. The deployment of police personnel for COVID-19 duties has come down from over 2,000 to 1,500. “However, dedicated deployment for only COVID-19-related duties would be around 1,000-1,200, including 22 police personnel deployed at airport for Vande Bharat mission flights,” said Ms. Gahlaut. For the virus-infected police personnel, separate arrangement has been made for isolation at Police Lines in Manesar. Challan amounts Initiating penal action against those violating lockdown norms, the Gurugram police have so far issued challans to 31,359 people for not wearing masks. “The money generated from the challans has been given to the Health Department. We are also in the process of distributing 50,000 masks to those who cannot afford them,” said Ms. Gahlaut. Besides, 1,068 FIRs have been registered for violations under different laws. Of these, 506 cases have been registered under the IPC for disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant and an act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. Similarly, 560 were registered under the Disaster Management Act and two under the Information Technology Act. The police have arrested 1,550 people for various violations and seized 429 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/25-of-gurugram-police-on-covid-duty/article32509724.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||L-G for revamp of testing plan||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday issued directions to ensure testing facilities at transit points as well as construction sites in the Capital to combat COVID-19. According to sources, the L-G also asked the officials concerned to prepare a standard operating procedure for a phone-based home COVID-19 testing programme for citizens. Mr. Baijal issued the directions at a meeting with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to discuss COVID-19 pandemic situation in Delhi, specifically regarding the testing strategy as well as to decide prohibited and permitted activities during Unlock 4. In addition to Mr. Kejriwal, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain, the Chief Secretary, V.K Paul, NITI Aayog member, Randeep Guleria, director AIIMS, DG ICMR and other experts and senior officers were also present at the meeting. Testing at home According to sources, Mr. Baijal observed there was a need to restrategise the current testing plan to maximise these to prevent the spread of COVID-19 of which the initiative to provide testing facilities at home was a significant component. A helpline would be started for booking appointments for such tests; these would first be limited to senior citizens before being made available for women and children. The L-G, sources said, also directed the officials concerned to ensure testing facilities at all the interstate bus terminals, railway stations and larger construction sites in Delhi. Mr. Baijal also directed that extensive publicity activities, strict compliance of social distancing and other protective and preventive measures be taken and it be ensured that there is adherence to all guidelines issued by the Centre to prevent the transmission of the virus since the city cannot afford to let its guard down till the situation normalises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-for-revamp-of-testing-plan/article32509728.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells IHBAS to fill up vacancies for medical and faculty members’ posts||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) to recruit faculty members and medical staffers to fill up vacancies at the institute as early as possible. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the direction after the institute’s counsel, Tushar Sannu, said an advertisement was issued on Tuesday for recruiting 45 faculty members. The court was hearing a petition moved by advocate Amit Sahni, seeking filling up of vacancies at IHBAS in order to tackle the alleged “rampant rise in psychiatric and psychological cases in the country more effectively and efficiently”. Mr. Sahni, also a social activist, had claimed in his plea that patients with psychiatric disorders or those who require clinical psychological treatment are suffering due to acute shortage of medical and other employees at IHBAS. “This post-COVID-19 landscape will be a breeding ground for an increase in chronic stress, anxiety, depression, alcohol dependence, and self-harm,” Mr. Saini said. “With such widespread rise in the number of cases of mental disorder, it is immensely crucial to have adequate psychiatrists and other medical staffers to deal with the situation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-tells-ihbas-to-fill-up-vacancies-for-medical-and-faculty-members-posts/article32509719.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAP govt. lied about increasing testing: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that despite Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying a week ago that testing for COVID-19 will be doubled in the Capital from 20,000 to 40,000 tests a day, no steps have been taken to achieve this target. “The Chief Minister lied to the people on August 27 when he announced that the Delhi government will double the COVID-19 testing from the present 20,000 to 40,000 per day, but he has not done anything to achieve this target, though a week has elapsed,” Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said. He said the people are still in the dark about the intensity of the COVID-19 infection in the Capital, as testing has not gone beyond an average of 20,000 cases per day. Surge in cases Mr. Kumar said that with the total count going up to 1,77,060, the Capital is once again in the grip of a COVID-19 scare, but sadly the government has not put any proper mechanism in place to assess spread of the virus in Delhi. The leader added that the Delhi Congress has also been insisting that the more reliable RT-PCR tests should be conducted, instead of the unreliable rapid antigen tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-govt-lied-about-increasing-testing-cong/article32509726.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three police families test positive for deadly virus||Three police families, including police personnel, have tested COVID-19 positive in Chanakyapuri police staff quarters on Wednesday, days after the Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava issued strict instructions to all officers over prevention from the virus. A senior police officer confirmed that that an ACP-rank officer was also tested positive. After the ACP complained of fever and cough, he got himself tested and was found COVID-19 positive. He has been recommended home isolation. The officer added that 15 people of the three police families have been tested positive. As per the procedure, the Chanakyapuri police colony has been sealed and regular sanitisation has been ordered along with other safety measures. Police chief order On August 24, in a videoconferencing, Mr. Shrivastava had instructed all personnel to revisit the circular and implement it for their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-police-families-test-positive-for-deadly-virus/article32509732.ece
03 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS suspends OPD admissions for 2 weeks owing to surge in virus cases||With Delhi registering a spike in COVID cases over the past few days All India Institute of Medical Sciences has on Wednesday suspended routine OPD admissions in general and private wards for two weeks. A one-page notice issued by the hospital administration said that routine OPD services to enable patients seeking medical advice and counselling, which were recently resumed will continue. Situation review “In view of the need to optimise usage of available in-patient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill emergency/semi-emergency patients, it has been decided to temporarily stop routine OPD admissions to general wards as well as private wards in AIIMS hospital and all centres with immediate effect for a period of two weeks, which will be reviewed after that,” stated a circular issued by the administration. Emergency patients, who require in-patient hospitalisation in general wards or such patients who are advised private wards hospitalisation owing to emergency and semi-emergency conditions will continue to be admitted. “Notwithstanding the above, EHS [employees health scheme] patients will continue to be hospitalised as clinically warranted,” the circular stated. “The decision has been taken in view of increased admissions of non-COVID-19 serious patients through emergency, particularly trauma emergency as the Trauma Centre has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 facility,” a senior AIIMS official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiims-suspends-opd-admissions-for-2-weeks-owing-to-surge-in-virus-cases/article32509734.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Army jawan arrested for ‘raping’ woman; probe on||An Army jawan has been arrested for allegedly raping a woman in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, the police said on Wednesday. The accused met the woman through a dating app, they said. A senior police officer said that the accused jawan had created a profile on the dating app where he posed himself as a pilot. He got in touch with a woman and they started talking. Soon after, they also started meeting each other. The victim works with a hospital. “They met in Murthal, Fatidabad and Delhi. On one instance, he took her to a place in south Delhi and raped her. He threatened her of dire consequences and left the city. He is presently posted in Assam,” said the officer. He added that the woman, who was in trauma, visited Malviya Nagar police station with a complaint against the accused. An FIR was then registered and the police started making efforts to nab the accused. He was subsequently held in Assam amd brought to the Capital. “The victim is yet to record her statement before a Magistrate. A probe is on. The mobile phone, which the accused used to contact the victim, has been seized,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/army-jawan-arrested-for-raping-woman-probe-on/article32509737.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ensure automatic licence renewal of nursing homes’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed the Health Department to immediately pass an order by which the licences of all nursing homes will automatically be renewed till March 31, 2021. The nursing home owners of Delhi along with senior members of the Delhi Medical Council (DMC) and the Delhi Medical Association (DMA) on Wednesday met Mr. Kejriwal and flagged the renewal of licences as a very significant issue. In the meeting, where Health Minister Satyendar Jain was also present, the owners of the nursing homes said that every year there is a need to renew the licence to run these nursing homes. This year, due to the pandemic some of the nursing homes could not renew their licence after March which is creating issues in the operations of these nursing homes, they submitted following which the decision was taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-automatic-licence-renewal-of-nursing-homes/article32509730.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||CM provides financial aid to ‘virus warrior’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met the family of Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj, a pharmacist posted with the Delhi government who died after contracting COVID-19 in the line of duty, and offered them a cheque of Rs. 1 crore as financial assistance. Mr. Bhardwaj was posted at the CDMO Office, Nabi Karim, Central District and resided with his family in the Faridabad. He succumbed on July 20 at the B.L. Kapoor Hospital, where he was admitted after testing positive on June 29. Expressing his condolences, Mr. Kejriwal said that he was proud of all the ‘Corona warriors’ like him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-provides-financial-aid-to-virus-warrior/article32509725.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Police quiz Umar Khalid over Delhi riots||The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Wednesday questioned former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, a senior officer said. He was questioned for a couple of hours at the Sunlight Colony police station, the officer said. Earlier, Mr. Khalid was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in another case related to the riots. He was also questioned by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police earlier in connection with an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-quiz-umar-khalid-over-delhi-riots/article32509736.ece
03 September 2020||Agartala,||Two more Tripura MLAs test positive||Two more MLAs in Tripura, Kalyani Roy and Sudhangshu Das, tested positive on Wednesday. Altogether, seven MLAs have so far contracted the virus. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb inspected the GBP Hospital here amid reports of death of COVID-19 patients due to alleged oxygen insufficiency. He took stock of the situation and held discussions with medical officers. A portion of the GBP Hospital, State’s main referral hospital, was made a dedicated COVID-19 treatment facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-more-tripura-mlas-test-positive/article32509705.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gurugram school murder: SC rejects plea||The SC on Wednesday junked the bail plea of a boy accused of killing a seven-year-old boy at a private school in Gurugram. A three-judge Bench headed by Justice R.F. Nariman dismissed the plea which had challenged the Punjab and Haryana HC order. “We have heard counsel for all parties exhaustively, including learned counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant. Since the petitioner is now being tried for the purposes of bail only as an adult, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment of the HC at this stage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-school-murder-sc-rejects-plea/article32509741.ece
03 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers to stage protest on Sept. 14||With Parliament’s monsoon session slated to start on September 14, ten farmers’ outfits have announced to stage protests across Punjab on the same day against the Centre’s agriculture ordinances and amendment to the Electricity Act. Terming the ordinances promulgated by the Centre as against the interest of the farming community, Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), said “We intend to hold big rallies in Amritsar, Phagwara, Barnala, Patiala and Moga on September 14, when the Parliament session begins. The purpose is to convey a strong message to the BJP-led Central government that it should not go ahead with any legislation on the three agriculture ordinances.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-to-stage-protest-on-sept-14/article32509708.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||Two minors among five held for robbing driver of car, belongings||Three youth and two minors have been held for allegedly robbing an OLA driver of his car and belongings in outer Delhi’s Nangloi, the police said on Wednesday. DCP (Outer) A. Koan said that the youth have been identified as Pankaj (19), Sagar (20) and Abhijeet (19), all residents of Nangloi. The police said that on August 31, the driver reported the incident. “The customers allegedly thrashed him, robbed him of his mobile phones, wallet and threw him out of the car,” Mr. Koan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-minors-among-five-held-for-robbing-driver-of-car-belongings/article32509740.ece
03 September 2020||New Delhi,||IIT-Delhi opens School of Artificial Intelligence||IIT-Delhi on Wednesday said that it has established School of Artificial Intelligence (ScAI) on its campus. ScAI will begin PhD programme from the next admission cycle, January 2021, and PG-level degree courses to be offered by the school are being planned. IIT-Delhi director V. Ramgopal Rao said “We are lagging behind when it comes to the number of AI researchers in India and the overall quality and quantity of AI research. To fill this gap, IIT-Delhi has established ScAI.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-delhi-opens-school-of-artificial-intelligence/article32509739.ece
