04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. offers to make 8 changes to farm laws||After over seven hours of discussion, the fourth round of talks between the Centre and farmer leaders ended inconclusively on Thursday. Although the Centre offered to consider eight amendments to the contentious farm reform laws and offered assurances that the minimum support prices (MSP) for farm produce would continue, farmer leaders continued to stand firm on their demand that all three laws be completely repealed. The dialogue is scheduled to resume on Saturday, but the continuing deadlock meant that farmers would not even eat the lunch and tea provided by the government at Vigyan Bhavan, preferring to bring in their own food from a gurdwara. Entry points sealed Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have completely or partially sealed multiple entry points on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for the eighth straight day, camping out along the highways leading to the city with long lines of tractors.  Their demands are to scrap the three laws, which they fear will end the MSP regime, and to create a new law guaranteeing MSPs. They also want the government to stop slapping large fines on farmers for burning stubble and to withdraw the Electricity Bill, 2020, which could affect power subsidies for farmers. “The government has no ego. It is discussing all the issues with farmers with an open mind,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told journalists after the meeting ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-offers-8-amendments-to-laws-farmers-seek-full-repeal/article33244791.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Controversy over name board at Udupi Krishna temple ends||Controversy over removing a Kannada name board at the entrance of Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi has ended with the mutt fixing the Kannada board on Thursday. Earlier, president of Udupi unit of Kannada Sahitya Parishat Neelavara Surendra Adiga had raised objections to the removal of the Kannada board and fixing a name board written in Tulu and Sanskrit. He had said that the action of the muttt authorities violated the government directive that mandates organisations, commercial establishments to give prominence to Kannada in name boards. But the manager of the Paryaya Admar Mutt Govindaraj had clarified that the Kannada name board made of plastic had been removed for replacing it with a wooden one. The plastic board had been removed on an instruction from the seer of the Paryaya Admar Mutt as part of temple renovation process during the just concluded Lakshadeepotsava rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/controversy-over-name-board-at-udupi-krishna-temple-ends/article33245403.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Indian vaccines after phase 3 trials’||With Pfizer/BioNTech’s m-RNA vaccine having been approved in the United Kingdom and being readied for about 80,000 of the country’s most vulnerable people, India’s own vaccines could be available “almost immediately” for public use after the phase 3 trials were completed and the drug regulator was convinced of a vaccine’s potential efficacy, experts have said. Emergency use authorisation (EUA) procedure in India is similar to that in the European Union, the United Kingdom and the United States, said Ram Vishwakarma of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (CSIR-IIIM). He is currently involved in testing several novel and re-purposed drugs for COVID-19. “There is a harmony among drug regulators globally,” said Dr. Vishwakarma. “So a drug or a vaccine approved by the U.S. FDA (Food and Drug Administration) is approved here with some bridging studies (limited trials on local population to establish equivalence and effect). Were Pfizer to apply in India to the regulator here, it could in theory be approved within days or weeks here, depending on whether the Drug Controller is satisfied with the data. If the situation so demands, the regulator has the power to waive or recommend more tests, and doesn’t necessarily require Indian data.” Covishield is based on the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine candidate, ChAdOx1 ncov19, and is being tested in 16,000 volunteers across the country. Covaxin has just begun Phase 3 trials and is being tested in 28,500 volunteers across the country. SII CEO, Adar Poonawalla, has said that the company plans to approach the Central Drugs Standards and Control Organisation for an EUA within two weeks. The EUA is not an approval. It is permission granted to a company for a limited time to offer a vaccine or a drug to people to tide over a crisis. For a formal approval, the company must eventually offer all data on the drug’s efficacy, side-effects and adverse events to the regulator for it to determine if the vaccine or drug ought to be approved in the country. Several drugs, like Remdesivir and Fapiravir, have been given an EUA but have been added or removed from recommended treatment guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research over time. Indian officials have said that they have a broad blueprint ready to vaccinate 30 crore high-risk individuals within the first half of next year. Covaxin and Covishield are the furthest ahead among Indian vaccines in the approval journey but several other candidate vaccines by Indian companies as well as partnerships involving Indian and foreign companies are in early stages of testing. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-vaccines-will-be-available-after-phase-3-trials/article33244788.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Burevi weakens into deep depression||The State government on Thursday finalised its preparations for handling a potential weather-related emergency even as the latest forecasts indicated that Cyclone Burevi would weaken into a depression by Friday morning. Burevi had weakened into a deep depression by Thursday evening as it lay centred over the Gulf of Mannar. The weather system was expected to cross Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu through Thursday night and weaken further into a depression by Friday morning. By then, wind speeds would decrease to 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph, the Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, indicated in a Thursday evening update. Wind speeds would further dip to 30 to 40 kmph by the time the weather system approaches Kerala, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the weather system was likely to enter Kerala along the regions bordering Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts as it raced towards the Arabian Sea. The government was not expecting major flooding events, the Chief Minister said. Nonetheless, 2,891 relief camps have been opened in the seven southern districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Ernakulam. The India Meteorological Department has put these districts along with Thrissur, Palakkad and Malappuram on yellow alert on Friday anticipating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Centre’s assuarance Union Home Minister Amit Shah has promised all assistance to the State for tackling contingencies, Mr. Vijayan said. The government has also declared a holiday for government offices, including public sector institutions, in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, and Alappuzha on Friday given the weather situation. The decision will not be applicable to election personnel and essential services. In addition to the police, Fire and Rescue Services and other State government machineries, armed forces and paramilitary units and eight teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been mobilised or kept on stand-by.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/burevi-weakens-into-deep-depression/article33244958.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Number of pensioners increased to 61 lakh in 18 months, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that his government’s pension bill per month is more than Rs. 1,500 crore against just about Rs. 500 crore during the TDP term. This reflected the YSRCP government’s commitment to the welfare of the pensioners, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said during a short discussion on the direct transfer of benefits under various schemes in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. The Chief Minister pointed out that the old-age pension paid by the TDP government till its fag end in 2019 was a paltry Rs. 1,000 per month, which was increased to Rs. 2,250 immediately after YSRCP came to power. Till October 2018, the number of pensioners was roughly 44.33 lakh. It went up to 61.94 lakh over the last 18 months, he said. These statistics exposed the TDP’s claim to be the saviour of the pensioners, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stated amidst loud thumping of desks by his party MLAs.  Earlier, TDP MLA Nimmala Rama Naidu sought to know why the government failed in paying Rs. 3,000 as promised by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his 2019 election campaign. He said it was the former Chief Minister, N.T. Rama Rao, who had given a whole new meaning to the welfare schemes for the poor by taking certain path-breaking initiatives. Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, and Kolusu Parthasarathy and other YSRCP MLAs said the Chief Minister would fulfil his commitment soon in spite of the severe financial crunch faced by the government. Mr. Venkateswara Rao’s comment at this juncture that Mr. Jagan was not an escapist like his predecessor and TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu evoked strong condemnation by the TDP MLAs and resulted in yet another round of mutual recrimination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/number-of-pensioners-increased-to-61-lakh-in-18-months-says-jagan/article33244801.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Barge-mounted crane to salvage fishing vessel||Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Thursday directed the district administration to deploy a barge-mounted crane to salvage the fishing vessel Shree Raksha that has sunk in the sea so as to retrieve the remaining missing lone fisherman. He was speaking after handing over letters releasing compensation of Rs. 6 lakh each to the families of five drowned fishermen in Monday night’s vessel-capsize tragedy here. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, quoting diving experts as saying, later told reporters that the vessel was reported to be under a depth of about 60 ft. The barge deployed for ADB works on the Someshwara coast along with the crane would be deployed to salvage the vessel, he said. Mr. Poojari reiterated that a comprehensive inquiry would be conducted into the sinking of the vessel by the Fisheries Department. The administration acted quickly in rescuing the stranded fishermen and launching a search for the missing ones. Also, it disbursed compensation of Rs. 6 lakh each to the families of deceased fishermen within no time, he added. He would take a delegation of MP and MLAs to the Chief Minister within a week seeking additional Rs. 4 lakh compensation to each family following demands from fishermen leaders, Mr. Poojari said. The Minister said that the government had been giving priority to safety of fishermen and had introduced several programmes. Similarly, fishermen too should follow safety measures, including wearing life jackets and other safety gadgets. A meeting of all the stakeholders would soon be convened to chalk out plans for further enhancing fishermen safety, Mr. Poojari said. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Deputy Director of Fisheries Parshwanath and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/barge-mounted-crane-to-salvage-fishing-vessel/article33245401.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,||KMTA draws up priority list of transportation projects||A month since it was constituted, the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) is in the process of prioritising initiatives that it has been mandated with, from readying a parking policy to rationalising bus routes depending on demand. “We have been striving to make a noticeable change in Kochi’s transportation sector, despite pitfalls like inadequate number of personnel and fund crunch,” said a key official of the authority, which is mainly banking on budgetary allocation and income from fees for different services that it will facilitate. The KMTA is keen to rope in landowners who are willing to permit pay-and-park facilities with automated fare collection on their premises. Either a small portion of the fare thus collected will go to the authority, or a registration fee can be levied. The body is also keen to upgrade pollution testing centres, to improve air quality. It has further mooted a card using which people can travel in multiple modes of transport, official sources said. It is imperative that the agency readies a comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) binding the sector, for which the Central government has prepared a tool kit for reference. This will be a guide for streamlining and integrating the various commuting modes. It is noteworthy that O.P. Agarwal, who played a key role in preparing the tool kit and framing the National Urban Transport Policy, is a member of the KMTA, said former Mayor K.J. Sohan, who is a corporate governance representative in the body. The CMP will help identify the travel pattern in the city, following which route rationalisation can be done of the approximately 2,000 buses that operate in the district. For this, the CMP, by relying on digital mode of payment and tracking that is being introduced in buses, will help garner data like the origin and destination of buses and also boarding and alighting points of commuters. The CMP must then be notified and opinion of local bodies sought, he said. Route rationalisation, as envisaged by the KMTA, will be easier if private buses that have arrayed under seven companies come under a common umbrella, said former Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner B.J. Antony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kmta-draws-up-priority-list-of-transportation-projects/article33245375.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Travel agents get calls about U.K. trips for COVDI-19 vaccine||On Wednesday, just after the U.K. government gave its approval for Pfizer’s vaccine against COVID-19, a small section of residents from the city has been busy making enquiries to look into the possibility of flying to the U.K. to get a shot. However, whether non-U.K. citizens will get access to the vaccine in the early stages remains doubtful. And yet, travel agents said some of their regular clients had reached out to them to know if there were chances for them to get the vaccine by travelling to the U.K. Tushar Jain, a travel agent, said one of his customers was ready to pay a few lakhs to take a trip, provided everything is arranged and the vaccine is made available but they said they wanted to fly only if the vaccine was completely safe and secure. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said he too received quite a few enquiries in the last few days, with people wanting to know if they could travel to the U.K. and get the vaccine. “These people belong to the elite section of society. They have been asking us on which visa they can travel, where to stay, and if they will be eligible to get a shot. But there is no clarity of any sort now and we have responded saying we will reach out to them as soon as we hear from the consulate or the U.K. government,” he added. Mostly, people over the age of 55-60 were the ones wishing to get a vaccine shot at the earliest. Shahul Hameed, chairman of the Travel Agents’ Association of India, said there were also people who desperately wanted to travel and take a holiday, and hence would use this opportunity to get a vaccine as well. “There is no clarity right now on who will be eligible. So, it is too early for any of us to promise anything to the people. There is a long way to go as far as this is concerned,” he added.  There is no clarity right now on who will be eligible. So, it is too early for any of us to promise anything to people. There is a long way to go Shahul Hameed chairman of the Travel Agents’ Association of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/travel-agents-get-calls-about-uk-trips-for-covid-19-vaccine/article33245279.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Property registration put on hold till Tuesday||Registration of properties in the State will continue to be kept in abeyance for five more days with the Telangana High Court on Thursday extending the stay order on collection of Aadhar card and caste details for uploading details of properties on Dharani portal. Hearing a batch of PIL and writ petitions relating to Dharani portal, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy extended the stay order till Tuesday. This would mean, registration of properties had to be put on hold till Tuesday. The government issued an order keeping registration of private properties in abeyance all over the State from September 8. Before the government took a decision on reviving registrations, some persons moved HC challenging government’s decision compelling people to upload details of their properties on Dharani portal and seeking details of their Aadhar card and family members. The HC issued interim directions staying collection of Aadhar card and caste details relating to non-agricultural properties resulting in stalling of registration of assets in the State. Former Advocate General and senior counsel D. Prakash Reddy, appearing for one of the petitioners, reiterated that the government’s action relating to Dharani was not backed by law. “Hence asking people to part with information of Aadhar card and caste and uploading property details onto Dharani portal is illegal,” he contended. By stating that a citizen stands to lose rights of a property if he or she failed to furnish information about the said property, the government was indirectly threatening the citizen, the senior counsel said. This amounted to taking away the right to property of a citizen which was guaranteed under Article 300A of the Constitution, he said. The procedures to be adopted and followed while uploading information on Dharani portal were vague, he said. “Who is the property enumerator...is there a supervisor...is there a mechanism of rectification in case of entering wrong information..,” Mr. Reddy said. The bench said the government contended that it had introduced Dharani portal ‘in the interest of public’. “What is wrong if government simplified system of property detail entries. There are so many property disputes in Hyderabad,” the bench sought to know. Mr. Prakash Reddy replied that ‘good intentions’ of the government should be backed by ‘good laws’. The peals were posted to Tuesday for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/property-registration-put-on-hold-till-tuesday/article33245330.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan moves privilege motion against Rama Naidu||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLAs were suspended from the House for a day on Thursday. It is for the fourth consecutive day that the TDP MLAs were suspended in Assembly during the current winter session. Also, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy moved a privilege motion against TDP MLA Nimmala Rama Naidu for “misleading the House by distorting facts” over the issue of granting pensions to various sections of people. Subsequently, Speaker Tammineni Sitaram referred the issue to the Privileges Committee of the Legislature. A short discussion on Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) led to noisy scenes, cross talk, challenges and counter-challenges. Mr. Rama Naidu alleged that Mr. Jagan, after coming to power, had gone back on his pre-election promise that if YSRCP was voted to power, he would give Rs. 3,000 per month to the pensioners and asked why they were giving only Rs. 2,200 per month. The Chief Minister at this juncture intervened and rebutted the lies alleged by TDP members over the distribution of pension amounts. He also requested the Chair to play the video clip of his padayatra in Visakhapatnam which the TDP was referring to. Mr. Jagan maintained that it has become a habit for the TDP to tell lies despite clarifying the same in the House. The padayatra video clip was played and explained in the last session also, he pointed out.  Later, as the Ministers reacted and expressed their views, the issue got diverted and turned into a discussion on the dairy sector — the government’s MoU with the Amul. The YSRCP MLAs and ministers alleged that Leader of Opposition N Chandrababu Naidu was opposing Amul as he feared that it would be a death knell to his company Heritage. It led to vociferous reaction from the Opposition benches. As the Speaker denied mike, they climbed up to the podium, entered into an argument with the Chair. They also raised slogans. Following which, the TDP MLAs were suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-moves-privilege-motion-against-rama-naidu/article33244726.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Rajini will launch party in Jan. 2021||Ending years of oscillation, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth announced on Thursday that he would launch a political party in January 2021 to contest in the Assembly election. The date of the launch will be announced on December 31. “In the upcoming election, we will achieve a big victory with the support of the people. A ‘spiritual politics’ will emerge in Tamil Nadu that will bring transparency, honesty, politics with no corruption and one that is free of caste and religious bias,” he wrote on Twitter. Adding that miracles and wonders would happen, he sought to place before his supporters the slogans “Will change everything” and “Now or never”. The actor appointed R. Arjunamoorthy, who resigned as BJP Tamil Nadu unit intellectual cell president on Thursday, as the proposed party’s “chief coordinator”. Political activist Tamilaruvi Manian, considered one of the guiding forces behind the actor’s decision, was appointed the “overseer” of party affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajini-will-launch-party-in-jan-2021/article33245322.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||India’s first trans children’s homes will be in Bengaluru||India’s first homes for transgender children in need of care and protection will soon be established in Bengaluru. The Ministry of Women and Child Development gave its nod for the project last week. The minutes of the supplementary Project Approval Board (PAB) under child protection services said two government-run homes for transgender children will be established in Bengaluru Urban. Children in need of care and protection include orphans, abandoned children, street children, child labourers and child victims of abuse. Pallavi Akurathi, head of the Directorate of Child Protection, who mooted the idea, said she had learnt that many transgender children in State-run children’s homes for girls or boys were not comfortable. “My field staff informed me that in many instances, when transgender children in need of care and protection are produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), they are not able to place them in existing homes for boys and girls. I interacted with several people from the transgender community who spoke about the violence and abuse they faced and decided that it is best a home is established for such a vulnerable section,” she said. As it was a new initiative, it was not an easy task to get approval from the Central government. It was not approved in the PAB held in May 2020; she resubmitted the proposal in the supplementary PAB held on October 15. The two homes would have the capacity to house 50 children each. Ms. Akurathi has asked officials of the department to conduct a recce to understand where transgender children in need of care and protection are located, and to understand the challenges they face. Antony Sebastian, Chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said it is essential that a home is established for transgender children as they face a lot of stigma and abuse. “They will not fit in homes for boys or girls. Establishing a separate home and giving them attention and care at a young age will help address some of their concerns.” Pallavi Shivappa Jakali, 35, a transgender based in Ramdurg, Belagavi, was brought up in a children’s home run by an NGO. “I grew up in a boys’ home and was constantly bullied. Because of this, I would dress as a man and hide my identity,” she said, adding that she came out as a transgender only when she was 17 years old. She felt the move to establish a separate home for transgenders would help people like her cross the many hurdles they face in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-first-trans-childrens-homes-will-be-in-bengaluru/article33244793.ece
04 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Telugu film takes the OTT platform by storm||A breezy family drama, Middle Class Melodies , starring Anand Deverakonda, which was released on November 20 on Amazon Prime, took Over The Top (OTT) platform by storm. What makes it even more special for the people of Guntur is that the film was shot mostly in and around Guntur, capturing vivid images of the countryside and the sounds of noisy Guntur. A sensation  The song -- ‘Tellaare Oorantha Thayyare, Musthabai Pilichinde Gunture’ -- shot in Guntur is creating a sensation on social media. With this movie, a fresh talented director has made a debut in Tollywood. Vinod Anantoju is from Guntur. An IT professional-turned-film director, Vinod has done a remarkable job in presenting the aspirations, confusion and travails of middle class households in the movie and won accolades for his deft handling of the subject. A book lover In a tete-a-tete with The Hindu , Vinod shared his passion for film making since his college days. However, it was his early tryst with the books that kindled an interest for film making. “Our home was full of books of all kinds, fiction and non-fiction and periodicals, as my father is a manager of a publishing house. So, I developed an interest in reading and used to read a lot of Telugu fiction books. That helped me when I was making short films during my engineering studies at Bapatla,” says Vinod. After graduating from Bapatla Engineering College in 2011, Vinod landed a job in an IT firm at Hyderabad and worked for seven years. It was in the year 2017, he and his friend Janardhan Pasumarthi began working on a script for the movie. Vinod began knocking at the doors of production houses but in vain. Finally, Venigalla Ananda Prasad, producer, Bhavya Creations, agreed to make a film in 2019 and the film went into sets in August 2019. Anand Devarakonda was picked for the lead role of Raghava, who is adept at making ‘Bombay chutney,’ and dreams of setting up his own hotel, Varsha from Karnataka, plays his sweet heart, Sandhya. ‘Genuine emotions’ “I wanted to portray the genuine emotions and experiences in a middle class family as I too had similar experiences during my days in Guntur. Frankly speaking, I did not want to convey any message and I just wanted to make a film and I am happy that viewers liked it very much,” says Vinod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telugu-film-takes-ott-platform-by-storm/article33244804.ece
04 December 2020||YADGIR,||BJP will seek justice for Vishwanath in the Supreme Court, says Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa has ample powers either to include anyone and remove a Minister from his Cabinet and senior leader A.H. Vishwanath should wait for some more time for a better future. He was talking to reporters in Shahapur before attending a BJP Gram Swaraj programme. Mr. Savadi said that Mr. Vishwanath has faced a setback after the interim order from the High Court of Karnataka which disqualified him from becoming a Minister. But, he should not lose hope in getting a Cabinet berth as the BJP will take up this issue in the Supreme Court seeking justice for him [Mr. Vishwanath]. When asked about key aspirant to a Cabinet berth C.P. Yogeshwar, Mr. Savadi said that everybody can intend to become a Minister as it is quite obvious for any politician. Thus, there is nothing wrong in him [Mr. Yogeshwar] being an aspirant. The party high command and the Chief Minister will finalise the names, he added. Setting aside rumours that Ballari MLA Somashekhar Reddy is going to resign from the Assembly over the formation of the new Vijayanagar district being carved out from his district, Mr. Savadi said: “We have taken opinion from all MLAs, including Mr. Somshekhar Reddy, before forming the new district.” Thus, there is no chance of him becoming upset in the matter, he added. About the inclusion of Vijayapura MLA Basanagowda Patil Yatnal in the Cabinet, Mr. Savadi said that “I am not aware of it and it is better to ask the Chief Minister.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-will-seek-justice-for-vishwanath-in-the-supreme-court-says-savadi/article33244923.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Manipur police station chosen best in country||Nongpok Sekmai police station in Manipur’s Thoubal district has been selected as the best police station in the country, fresh rankings for 2020 announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday said. The other nine top police stations are AWPS-Suramangalam in Tamil Nadu’s Salem city, Kharsang in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang, Jhilmili (Bhaiya Thana) at Surajpur in Chhattisgarh, Sanguem in south Goa, Kalighat in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Pakyong in East Sikkim, Kanth in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad, Khanvel in Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Jammikunta town in Telangana’s Karimnagar. The government of India selects the best performing police stations out of 16,671 in the country every year to “incentivise more effective functioning of police stations and bring healthy competition among them,” the MHA said. “The ranking process commenced with shortlisting of the best performing police stations in each State on the basis of addressing property offence, crimes against women, crimes against the weaker sections, missing persons, unidentified persons and unidentified dead bodies. The last parameter has been introduced this year,” it said. The statement said the rankings were in accordance with the directions given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Directors General of Police conference in 2015. He had directed that parameters should be laid down for grading police stations and assessing their performance based on feedback. This year’s survey for best police stations was conducted under challenging circumstances by the MHA. It was difficult to access police stations located in remote areas during the COVID-19 pandemic. The number of police stations selected initially from each State comprised three from States with more than 750 police stations, two from all other States and Delhi and one each from Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-police-station-chosen-best-in-country/article33244802.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Committed to engaging with India, says Pfizer||Global pharma major Pfizer on Thursday said it remained committed to engaging with the Indian government to explore opportunities to make the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine available in the country. The U.K. on Wednesday became the first country to approve the vaccine with the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency granting temporary authorisation for its emergency use. “Right now, we are in discussions with many governments and remain committed to engaging with the Government of India and to make this vaccine available for use in the country,” a Pfizer spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/committed-to-engaging-with-india-says-pfizer/article33244786.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CISCE wants schools to reopen from January 4||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has written to all Chief Ministers asking that its schools be allowed to reopen partially for Class X and XII students from January 4, 2021. This is needed for students to be able to complete project and practical work and to clear doubts with their teachers before the board exams, said a statement from the Council’s chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon. It added that exam dates would be decided after taking into account the April-May election schedule. The CISCE conducts the ICSE or the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education examination for Class X and the ISC or the Indian School Certificate examination for Class XII students. In his statement, Mr. Arathoon noted that schools had been closed since March due to COVID-19, but most schools affiliated to the Council had continued with the teaching-learning process in an online, offline or blended manner. As the academic year was drawing to a close, the Council has requested the Central Election Commissioner to share the election dates of States due to go to the polls in April-May 2021 to ensure that there is no clash with the examination schedules. “For the final run-up to the examinations, the CISCE has requested the Chief Ministers of all State governments/Union Territories to allow schools to reopen partially,” said the statement. It added that if permitted to open, schools will follow all COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cisce-wants-schools-to-reopen-from-january-4/article33244789.ece
04 December 2020||Vijayawada,||‘Govt. committed to punishing rape convicts’||The Legislative Assembly passed the AP Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill, 2020, on Thursday. It facilitates faster completion of trial and handing out of punishment in 21 days, for which special courts are proposed to be constituted. Already, 18 Disha police stations and eight POCSO courts were set up to exclusively deal with the crimes against women and children. Moving the Bill, Home Minister M. Sucharitha said the government was firmly committed to awarding stringent punishment to those convicted of rape. Three persons were sentenced to death for raping / murdering girls in the recent months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-committed-to-punishing-rape-convicts/article33245543.ece
04 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in protest||Former Punjab Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal patron Parkash Singh Badal has returned his Padma Vibhushan in protest against the “betrayal of farmers” and indifferent attitude of the Centre towards the farmers’ protest. Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has said he would be returning his Padma Bhushan. In a letter to the President on December 2, Mr. Badal said: “I write this letter to return the Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the betrayal of the farmers ... and against the shocking indifference and contempt with which the government is treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation against farm acts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/badal-returns-padma-vibhushan-in-protest/article33244794.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Old-age pension to be hiked||The pension being paid to the elderly people will be increased from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,500 from July 2021 on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy, said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He announced this while making his closing remarks on the direct transfer of benefits (DBT) under various social welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/old-age-pension-to-be-hiked/article33244799.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Govt. not in favour of night curfew||The government has convened a meeting of experts on Friday to discuss if it is necessary to impose restrictions during New Year and Christmas celebrations to stem a second wave of COVID-19, even as the debate continues on the need for a “night curfew.” While Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the State government will explore other options rather than go for night curfew, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar questioned the need for any celebration, arguing that Ugadi is the new year for the Indian calendar. Speaking to mediapersons in Udupi, Mr. Bommai said that the draft advisory prepared by the Health Department based on recommendations of Technical Advisory Committee suggested imposing night curfew. “We may not go for night curfew, but COVID-19 norms should be followed during New Year celebrations,” he said. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, Mr. Sudhakar said: “This is not a New Year according to Indian calendar. Ugadi is our New Year. Moreover, what is the need for celebrations during this pandemic? We have lost hundreds of people and our economy has been hit. Hundreds have lost their livelihood. In such a situation do we need celebrations?” he asked.  “In my personal opinion, I do not think night curfew is required. I also do not feel that the second wave will be severe in the State. However, I will discuss this with our experts in the Technical Adviosry Committee and seek their opinion. Final decision on restrictions during Christmas and New Year Eve celebrations will be made after consultations with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and cabinet colleagues,” he said asserting that the advisory note based on TAC’s recommendations had not yet reached him. Pointing out that usually New Year celebrations see large crowds gathering, the Minister said it is practically very difficult to enforce social distancing and ensure that everyone is wearing mask. “COVID-19 cases are on the decline now and we need to ensure that they do not spike again. There were restrictions in place even during Ganesha Chaturthi, Dasara and Deepavali festivals and even for Rajyotsava celebrations. I appeal to people that they should voluntarily avoid large gatherings and celebrate at home or at small gatherings,” he added.  What is the need for celebrations during this pandemic? We have lost hundreds of people and our economy has been affected. K. Sudhakar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-not-in-favour-of-night-curfew-says-home-minister/article33245259.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Brimming over||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brimming-over/article33245406.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||State records 609 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded 609 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 2,71,492. While 53,686 samples were examined, results of 676 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients have died. Throughout November, daily tests did not cross 47,000. From December, more than 50,000 samples are examined in a day. The new 609 cases include 114 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 48 in Rangareddy, 45 in Medchal Malkajgiri. No case was registered in Narayanpet, and one in Jogulamba Gadwal. From March 2 to December 2, a total of 56,05,306 samples were tested and 2,71,492 were found to have coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-609-new-covid-cases/article33245328.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Malakpet repoll peaceful||Repolling was peaceful on Thursday in Old Malakpet division, where polling was cancelled on December 1, owing to mix-up in the CPI party symbol. At 6 p.m., the closure of voting process, the cumulative polling in all the polling stations of the division put together was tentatively recorded at 38.46%. Maximum voting was done between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. The percentage will be subject to revision after final figures arrive, GHMC informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malakpet-repoll-peaceful/article33245333.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Brimming over||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brimming-over/article33244842.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Monitoring Brahmaputra developments: India||India on Thursday said it “carefully monitors all developments on the Brahmaputra”, even as Beijing said it was its “legiti-mate right” to develop hydropower projects on the lower reaches of the river. A State-run Chinese hydropo-wer firm, POWERCHINA, is planning to build the first downstream dam on the Brahmaputra, known as the Yarlung Zangbo in Tibet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monitoring-brahmaputra-developments-india/article33245077.ece
04 December 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal government to provide 9.5 lakh tablets to higher secondary students for online classes||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that her government will give 9.5 lakh tablets to higher secondary students to attend online classes. Ms. Banerjee told journalists, “There are about 14,000 State-run and State-aided higher secondary schools in the State. We will provide tablets to each and every.” The CM also announced capping the COVID-19 tests at Rs. 950. During the day Ms. Banerjee also inaugurated the newly reconstructed Majerhat bridge which had collapsed in September 2018 killing two people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-government-to-provide-95-lakh-tablets-to-higher-secondary-students-for-online-classes/article33244979.ece
04 December 2020||Kolkata,||Withdraw farm laws or face protests: Mamata||Extending support to farmers protesting in Delhi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her party would launch protests across the State and country if the Centre did not withdraw the “anti-farmer” laws. Ms. Banerjee also added that she had called a party meeting on Friday to “discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in sky-rocketing prices”. According to sources in the party, the Trinamool Congress will soon hit the streets and start a State-wide protest against the farm laws in poll-bound West Bengal. Meanwhile, the Left trade unions on Thursday hit the streets in protests against the farm Bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/withdraw-farm-laws-or-face-protests-mamata/article33244981.ece
04 December 2020||YADGIR,||Preparations in full swing for GP polls||The Yadgir district administration is making preparations to ensure a fair and proper elections to the 119 gram panchayats that will vote in two phases, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said. In a release here on Thursday, Dr. Ragapriya said that preparations are in full swing to ensure a fair and proper elections in the both the phases. She said that election officers and others concerned have been asked to implement the code of conduct strictly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preparations-in-full-swing-for-gp-polls/article33244924.ece
04 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Farm laws burnt in effigies in Dharwad||Expressing solidarity with farmers who are on their way to New Delhi seeking the withdrawal of the new farm laws, members of the Raita Krishi Karmik Sanghatane (RKS) took out a protest march in Dharwad on Thursday. The members of RKS, which is affiliated to AIKKMS, marched from Dr. Mallikarjun Mansur Kalabhavan in Dharwad to Vivekanand Circle where they staged a demonstration and burnt the three new laws in effigies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farm-laws-burnt-in-effigies-in-dharwad/article33244926.ece
04 December 2020||Pune,||Council polls: BJP wins Dhule-Nandurbar||While the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party registered a clear victory in the Dhule-Nandurbar Legislative Council byelection, the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi had the upper hand in four of the five teachers and graduates’ constituencies as the counting of votes began on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/council-polls-bjp-wins-dhule-nandurbar/article33245421.ece
04 December 2020||Pune,||Recoveries surge in Maharashtra||COVID-19 recoveries outpaced fresh cases by a healthy margin on Thursday, with as many as 8,066 more patients being discharged across Maharashtra as opposed to 5,182 new cases. The total case tally now stands at 18,37,358, with the number of active cases dropping to 85,535. The cumulative recoveries have crossed the 17 lakh mark to reach 17,03,274, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 92.7%. As many as 115 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 47,472. Pune district reported more than 750 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,55,698, while Mumbai reported 878 new cases and 18 more fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recoveries-surge-in-maharashtra/article33245422.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Traffic management plans getting ready||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that his department was preparing comprehensive traffic management plans for all city corporations in the State, funds for which were likely to be allocated in the 2021-22 State Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traffic-management-plans-getting-ready/article33245405.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||No night curfew in Delhi as of now, govt. tells HC||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the High Court that it was not going to impose night curfew in the Capital to curb the spread of COVID-19 as of now. The government, however, said it has issued order on November 28 to maintain status quo with respect to permitted or restricted activities in the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-night-curfew-in-delhi-as-of-now-govt-tells-hc/article33245076.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Detergent makers told to limit phosphate content||The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board has directed manufacturers of detergents to adhere to revised specifications for phosphate content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/detergent-makers-told-to-limit-phosphate-content/article33245261.ece
04 December 2020||BENGALURU,||BJP’s old guard seeks meeting of legislators||Turmoil in the BJP has a new twist with party old-timers coming in the open for the first time against the recent developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-old-guard-seeks-meeting-of-legislators/article33245262.ece
04 December 2020||BENGALURU,||BJP’s old guard seeks meeting of legislators||Turmoil in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has a new twist with the party old-timers coming in the open for the first time against the recent developments marked by perceived groupism, one-upmanship, and indiscipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-old-guard-seeks-meeting-of-legislators/article33245038.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Kannada groups adamant on tomorrow’s bandh||Kannada organisations are adamant of the State bandh call on Saturday. This, even as Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has appealed to call off the bandh and threatened stringent action against anyone forcing businesses to close.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kannada-groups-adamant-on-tomorrows-bandh/article33245039.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Beer sales plummet by over 33% this year||The sale of beer in Karnataka has taken a huge hit this financial year, as it has plummeted by a whopping 33.58% in comparison to the corresponding period of the last financial year. A major reason attributed to the steep drop is lockdown during April and May, the peak consumption period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beer-sales-plummet-by-over-33-this-year/article33245040.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not using masks flouts fundamental rights: SC||People who neglect to wear masks in public and do not follow physical distancing norms violate the fundamental rights of others amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court said on Thursday. “Things are wanting. People are violating guidelines on COVID with impunity all over the country,” Justice Ashok Bhushan, heading a three-judge Bench, said. Justice M.R. Shah, on the Bench, drew attention to how vegetable markets overflowed with people showing scant regard for physical distancing. “There are so many vegetable markets and people are supposed to keep a distance of six feet from each other. Nobody is following this in the entire country. These are places where the super-spread started,” Justice Shah said. While expressing deep anxiety about the lack of implementation of COVID-19 norms across the country, a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, however, stayed a Gujarat High Court order of December 2, which went to the “well-intentioned but disproportionate and harsh” extent of directing people who do not wear masks to be sent for community service at COVID-19 care centres in the State. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the Gujarat High Court’s order may lead to a cure worse than the disease itself. “Harm of not wearing a mask is less than this,” Mr. Mehta said. Justices Shah and R. Subhash Reddy, however, focussed on the intention behind the High Court order, saying the poor implementation and lack of will on the part of the authorities to enforce COVID-19 norms was stark. Weddings and rallies were seeing hundreds of people, Justice Shah remarked. The court asked why the police were not taking any action against the violators. Mr. Mehta agreed the problem had to be dealt with on a war-footing. The court asked Mr. Mehta to file his suggestions by Monday on ways to improve the implementation of COVID-19 norms. It scheduled a hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-using-masks-flouts-fundamental-rights-sc/article33244771.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Amarinder for a quick solution||Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday and requested him to listen to the farmers with an open mind and “quickly resolve the stand-off”. After the half-hour meeting, Capt. Singh told reporters outside Mr. Shah’s residence that the protests should be ended soon as the matter also pertained to national security. ‘Economy affected’ “We have reiterated our position, it is between the farmers and the Government of India now, it is for them to resolve. I came to meet the Home Minister to reiterate our position and to also make a request to him and the farmers that we must resolve the issue soon because this affects the economy of my State and also national security,” the Chief Minister said. The Punjab Assembly had passed a legislation to negate the farm laws passed by Parliament. The laws are yet to get the Governor’s nod. The Chief Minister tweeted, “Today I met Union Home Minister @AmitShah Ji and reiterated the need to protect MSP & continue with the APMC based mandi system. Requested him to listen to the farmers with an open mind & quickly resolve the standoff.” Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country have assembled on Delhi borders to protest against the three farm laws. Earlier in the day, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Mr. Shah over the farmers’ agitation. Mr. Tomar later held a seven-hour meeting with farmer leaders at Vigyan Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-for-a-quick-solution/article33244750.ece
04 December 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala is trying to stall probe in cashew purchase graft case: CBI||The Kerala government has denied prosecution sanction in the cashew nuts purchase corruption case of the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) to avoid the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filing its final report in the case, according to the investigation agency. The agency submitted an affidavit in the Kerala High Court on Thursday in a petition challenging the government decision not to give prosecution sanction. The investigation revealed a prima facie case against the former managing director of the KSCDC K.A. Ratheesh and former chairmen the late E. Kasim and R. Chandrasekharan and JMJ Traders. Abuse of power The trio abused their official positions as public servants to cause undue pecuniary advantage to JMJ Traders and themselves and cheated the corporation in the process, the agency submitted. The facts revealed during the investigation established a prima facie case against them. It was decided to prosecute the accused in the case after obtaining the sanction of the Kerala government. CBI reports, along with the statements of the witnesses and the copies of the documents, were forwarded to the Chief Secretary for granting prosecution sanction. However, the Principal Secretary (Forest and Wildlife) and Industries (Cashew) forwarded the government’s decision to decline the prosecution sanction, it submitted. Charge against govt. The State government had not properly appreciated the proofs forwarded by the CBI on technical grounds and ignoring the gravity of the offence, the agency submitted. The CBI further submitted that no sanction under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was necessary as Mr. Ratheesh was not working as managing director of the corporation and Mr. Chandrasekharan not a public servant on the date of registration of the First Information Report in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-is-trying-to-stall-probe-in-cashew-purchase-graft-case-cbi/article33244729.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Study builds case for more testing||A paper scheduled to be published in the peer-reviewed U.S. journal Health Affairs has shown a strong correlation between testing intensity and reduced transmission of COVID-19. The study, by Ravindra Prasan Rannan-Eliya and co-authors from the Institute for Health Policy in Colombo, Sri Lanka, explicitly quantifies testing for COVID-19 at a global scale, accounting for interventions and ecological factors. “The robustness of the relationship between testing and transmissibility is consistent with a known mechanism,” Dr. Ravindra explains, on a call. According to the authors, around half or more of COVID-19 transmissions is caused by people who are asymptomatic or who have only minor symptoms, so only increasing PCR (polymerase chain reaction) testing make it possible to increase detection and isolation of infectious cases, and then to increase the numbers of their potentially infectious contacts who are isolated. This remains the only known approach that blocks person-to-person transmission sufficiently to stop the epidemic. “The basic thing was to try and evaluate how much impact PCR testing has on COVID-19 spread. WHO (World Health Organisation) guidelines refer to PCR testing intensity. It became clear that the more testing that the countries did, they did better with reference to COVID-19 cases,” Dr. Ravindra says. On top of their table is Vietnam, which has a high test-to-case ratio. Today, they haven’t got a case of COVID-19. The paper lays that at the footstool of very aggressive testing. ‘Lockdown won’t help’ The paper also advances the theory that freezing mobility, as in lockdowns, had very little impact on the transmission of the virus itself. “We looked at mobility related factors — mobile phone related, and from Google and Facebook data. If you look at phone data, globally, it is very hard to show a benefit. There was a marginal impact in Europe, not large,” Dr. Ravindra explains. India, which had a national lockdown, and in countries such as Bolivia, Peru and Chile, there was hardly any benefit from the measure. A PCR evangelist, Dr. Ravindra advances a strong case for continuing with a high level of PCR tests, even as vaccines are rolled out. Will the entry of several vaccine candidates change the testing dynamics some? Dr. Ravindra explains: “None of the vaccines candidate we have so far are good enough to eliminate the virus. The vaccine will be much more effective if you have other control measures. The obvious thing is to do the testing…. We do know that governments, such as in China and Melbourne, that aggressively tried to kill it [the virus], managed to do so with six to eight weeks. You just have to throw everything at it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-builds-case-for-more-testing/article33244763.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India can be looking at making vaccine available as early as January’||India could be looking at making available a COVID-19 vaccine as early as January, saysAll India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Randeep Guleria ,while addingthat what matters the most is safety and efficacy and not being the first off the block.  Britain has approved Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for wide-scale use. How close is India to having its own vaccine roll-out? Two vaccines in India are in their third phase of testing, and we are hopeful that by January, we should be able to get emergency use authorisation. The two groups will be submitting their trial results by the end of this month or next month and then, depending on the results, the regulatory body should be able to clear this through. Vaccine manufacturing is not about being first off the block — safety, efficacy of the vaccine which will be administered to a large healthy population is the prime concern. Also, we look forward to these (Indian-manufactured) vaccines because they are better suited for use in the Indian climate and will be more easily available. After the alleged adverse vaccine reaction incident in Chennai, should the SII trial have been halted? Trials would have been halted had the regulators found any direct relationship between the vaccine and the medical condition of the volunteer. It isn’t something that hasn’t been done before. We have seen COVID-19 vaccine trials being halted previously also. There are set worldwide protocols when it comes to testing drugs and vaccines and there are enough checks and guards in the country for any adverse action. In the U.S., Italy and France, there is a renewed spike. While India is seeing a decreasing caseload, can we be sure that we are past the worst or, is it possible that we are simply on a down curve? There are clear indications that India is seeing a down-curve. But this in no way means that we become lax in any manner. With the vaccines just round the corner now is the time to more aggressively adhere to COVID-appropriate behaviour. We shouldn’t have more fatalities now. During the winter months, respiratory illnesses have a tendency to be more widespread and case spikes in Europe and the U.S.A. have shown that we need to have our guards up. With a vaccine now expected to be widely available in India soon and assuming that it will be more than 70% efficacious, can we look forward to being mask-free in the latter half of the year? The pandemic behaviours as we now know are linked to human behaviour. We can spread this by poor hygiene and respiratory habits. Wearing a mask protects us from a variety of illnesses and is a safety guard against air pollution. We have seen that discipline and COVID-appropriate behaviour have ensured that places such as Vietnam and Taiwan didn’t see the spikes that were witnessed in other parts of the world. India has to stay vigilant and ensure that we stay disciplined despite the COVID-19 fatigue that seems to have set in. Why is it that the pandemic continues to rage in India despite one of the world’s longest lockdowns? And how is it that China, with a bigger population than India, has contained it? There are multiple issues with China here. First the data from here isn’t clear and enforcement of various norms and rules aren’t done in the same fashion as was done in India and Europe. In these places, people’s cooperation is sought and rules aren’t imposed on them. So these things make a difference. Is it likely that we will reach a situation where lockdowns — at least at the level of State or district — might have to be reimposed? There seem to be suggestions of a lockdown in Delhi? No, large-scale lockdown cannot be the answer. I think we should look at aggressive testing, tracing and monitoring and creating containment zones. Large-scale lockdowns have an adverse impact on the livelihood of daily wagers and several others. We have to use the testing infrastructure and ensure that people isolate and follow appropriate behaviour. India has significantly ramped up testing capacity. However, with nearly half the tests of the rapid antigen variety, and most testing centres in urban localities, do you think a significant number of cases continue to be missed, particularly in rural India? India has ramped up testing in a manner that this is now available at primary health care centres. So while there may be variations, overall testing is now available to all. Aggressive testing is one of the cornerstones in beating this pandemic.  [SII] trials would have been halted had the regulators found any link between the vaccine and the volunteer’s condition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-can-be-looking-at-making-vaccine-available-as-early-as-in-january/article33244759.ece
04 December 2020||Washington DC,||Speak for all religions, India tells UN||India has asked the United Nations to expand its criticism of hatred and violence against religions beyond the three Abrahamic religions — Judaism, Christianity and Islam. “At the outset, let me state that we fully agree that anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and anti-Christian acts need to be condemned and India firmly condemns such acts. However, UN resolutions on such important issues speak only of these three Abrahamic religions together.” First Secretary at India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Ashish Sharma said on Wednesday. “This august body fails to acknowledge the rise of hatred and violence against Buddhism, Hinduism and Sikhism also.” Mr. Sharma’s remarks were made during a “Culture of Peace” session organised by the UN General Assembly. The UN has organised such sessions each year since 1997. “The shattering of the iconic Bamiyan Buddha by fundamentalists, the terrorist bombing of the Sikh gurdwara in Afghanistan where 25 Sikh worshippers were killed and the destruction of Hindu and Buddhist temples and minority cleansing of these religions by countries, call for condemning such acts against these religions also. But the current Member States refuse to speak of these religions in the same breath as the first three ‘Abrahamic’ religions,” Mr. Sharma said. The UN, however, has condemned such acts. For instance, in 2001, the General Assembly adopted a resolution without a vote condemning the Taliban for destroying cultural artefacts, including the Buddhist sculptures in Bamiyan. “What we are trying to build here is an ‘alliance of civilisations’ not set up a clash. I call on the UN Alliance of Civilizations to act likewise and speak for all, not just a select few,” Mr. Sharma said. “Why is this selectivity? Overall, Hinduism has more than 1.2 billion followers, Buddhism has more than 535 million followers, and Sikhism has around 30 million followers. It is time attacks against these religions are also added to earlier list of the three Abrahamic religions when such resolutions are passed. Culture of peace cannot be only for Abrahamic religions,” Mr. Sharma said.  On Wednesday, Mr. Sharma criticised Pakistan for its bigotry against “religions in India.” “If Pakistan changes its current culture of hatred against religions in India and stops its support of cross-border terrorism against our people, we can attempt a genuine culture of peace in South Asia and beyond, “ he said.  (With inputs from Suhasini Haidar in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/speak-for-all-religions-india-tells-un/article33244765.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Carefully monitoring’ Brahmaputra developments: India||India on Thursday said it “carefully monitors all developments on the Brahmaputra” river, even as Beijing said it was its “legitimate right” to develop hydropower projects on the lower reaches of the river. A State-run Chinese hydropower firm, POWERCHINA, is planning to build the first downstream dam on the Brahmaputra, known as the Yarlung Zangbo in Tibet. Officials from the firm said last week that they were eyeing the enormous potential of the river’s “Great Bend” just across the border from Arunachal Pradesh in Tibet’s Medog county, where the river falls over a 2,000-metre drop before turning to flow into India. While China in 2015 operationalised its first hydropower project at Zangmu in Tibet and is constructing three other dams at Dagu, Jiexu and Jiacha, these are run-of-the-river dams on the upper and middle reaches. The proposed new dam is also likely to be a run-of-the-river hydropower project that will not divert water, but will be the first on the lower reaches. On Thursday, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said “it is China’s legitimate right to carry out hydropower station development in the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river.” “China has always held a responsible attitude towards the development and utilisation of cross-border rivers and adopted the policy of simultaneously developing and protecting cross-border rivers,” she said. “Any project we undertake will go through scientific planning and research and we fully consider the impact on the downstream areas, taking into account the interests of both the upstream and the downstream. At present, the development of a hydropower station at the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river is still in the early planning and research stage, and there is no need to interpret too much into it.” It remains unclear whether technical feasibility studies will allow construction to go ahead, as POWERCHINA is not the first company to propose a downstream dam and previous projects did not take off. Ms. Hua said China had “for a long time carried out good cooperation with India and Bangladesh in flood reporting, flood control, disaster relief, and emergency management” and “will maintain communication with India and Bangladesh through existing channels”. Asked about China’s plans, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at his weekly briefing that the “government carefully monitors all developments on the Brahmaputra river.” User rights “As a lower riparian State with considerable established user rights to the waters of the trans-border rivers, the government has consistently conveyed its views and concerns to the Chinese authorities and has urged them to ensure that the interests of downstream States are not harmed by any activities in upstream areas,” he said. “The Chinese side has conveyed to us on several occasions that they are only undertaking run-of-the-river hydropower projects which do not involve diversion of the waters of the Brahmaputra. Various issues relating to trans-border rivers are discussed with China under the ambit of an institutionalised Expert Level Mechanism which was established in 2006, as well as through diplomatic channels. We intend to remain engaged with China on the issue of trans-border rivers to safeguard our interests.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/carefully-monitoring-brahmaputra-developments-india/article33244740.ece
04 December 2020||HARIGARH,||Feeding a protest: women keep the fire in the belly and hearth burning||It’s dusk and a group of women, both young and old, have reached their village — Harigarh in Barnala distict of Punjab — after staging a protest for hours at a nearby toll plaza in Badbar on the Patiala-Bathinda National Highway. While the men sit at a ‘ pucca-morcha ’ (permanent protest site) in Badbar, the women are back not just to take care of their household work but also to ensure that the arrangements for langar (community kitchen) for the protesters are put in place. This has been their schedule for the past two months. Standing shoulder to shoulder with men in the agitation against the new agriculture laws, these women — who are all willing to leave for the national capital to join the stir as and when the need arises — collect grains, vegetables, milk and so on from the village every day and prepare food to be served at the protest site. Families unite Perturbed over the Union government’s “indifferent” attitude towards the farmers’ protest and their demands, Ramanpreet Kaur, 27, who works at a private healthcare company, told The Hindu on Thursday that she was willing to leave for Delhi if required. “I am the daughter of a farmer, and if I don’t support this agitation and farmers, then I feel I will be betraying my community,” she said. Ms. Kaur, who has been rendering her services since the agitation started over two months ago, said: “Several committees of women have been set up across the village. Every evening, we get together and move around the village in the areas assigned to us to collect rations, money and other things. We cook food and send it to the protest site. It’s our duty and all of us are performing it,” Ms. Kaur said. Balbir Kaur, 60, said she was with the protesting farmers and would not relent at any cost unless their demands were met. “After completing my household work in the morning, I go to the protest site and sit over there for three or four hours daily. Later, in the evening, I, along with other women, walk around the village for collecting food and other items. We are collecting all necessary things be it clothes, food or medicine as part of the preparations for going to Delhi,” she said. “All of us are together in this battle. Whenever we receive a call from our leaders, we will march to Delhi without hesitating,” Amarjeet Kaur, 65, said. Karnail Kaur, 70, said: “The women in Punjab are very well capable of taking care of themselves, their households and fight for their rights in the outside world with all the might.” ‘Trust lost’ Expressing doubts over positive results emerging from the ongoing talks between the government and farmers, Parminder Kaur, 54, said: “I have lost trust in the government, they [the Centre] have backstabbed us by bringing the new laws, which are not in our interest. I’ll keep fighting even if it costs me my life... Delhi will have to listen to us, we will make them listen.” Parvinder Singh Makkan, a local farmer leader, said that in the agitation, the cooperation of women had been phenomenal. “They have been the backbone of our agitation. In several villages, including ours, women committees had been set up and are assigned different responsibilities from time to time. At the Badbar toll plaza, where a day-night dharna is being held, the food for hundreds of participants is prepared and provided with the help of the village women folk,” she said. “On a daily basis, we make announcements from a loudspeaker in the village about the requirement of food, based on the people present at the protest site. Never had there been a day when there was any shortage of food or other essential items. The involvement of women has been a key factor in strengthening this agitation,” he said. “Now, they [women] are all set to leave for Delhi. They are only waiting for the nod from leaders,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/feeding-a-protest-women-keep-the-fire-in-the-belly-and-hearth-burning/article33244748.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Burevi weakens into a deep depression||Cyclone Burevi weakened into a deep depression at 5.30 p.m. on Thursday. The deep depression will move west-southwestwards and cross the Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts between Thursday night and Friday morning, with a wind speed of 50-60 kmph, gusting to 70 kmph. It is very likely to further weaken into a depression, with a wind speed of 40-50 kmph, by Friday morning. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the weather system’s interaction with land mass had slowed its movement and intensity. It will now cause less damage. Beside southern parts of Tamil Nadu, central parts of the State, too, would get good rain. “We expect places like Tiruchi, Kallakurichi, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur to get good rain. The rainfall belt has even extended to the northern parts of the State. While Cyclone Nivar had benefited the northern region, this system will help wipe out the rain deficit in the central and southern parts.” In the past 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, most places in Tamil Nadu registered rainfall. Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district registered very heavy rain of up to 20 cm, followed by Karaikal with 16 cm of rainfall. The single day’s rainfall helped to bring down the State’s overall rain deficit by 4%. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu’s overall rainfall was 32.4 cm, which is 12% short of the normal seasonal rainfall since October 1. On the ensuing weather systems, Mr. Balachandran said it was only a cyclonic circulation over the Malay Peninsula, extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level. “It is located south of Sri Lanka. It may not have much impact over Tamil Nadu. We are tracking the weather disturbances,” he said. Some parts of Chennai continued to receive rain on Thursday. The Meteorological Department has forecast that the city would experience thunderstorms, with intermittent to moderate rain, till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/burevi-weakens-into-a-deep-depression/article33244877.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers refuse to ‘break bread’ with the government||Farmer leaders who came for the meeting with Union Ministers at Vigyan Bhavan declined the government’s offer of lunch and tea, preferring to bring their own food from a nearby gurdwara. “The government said they would not repeal the three laws, and there is much anger about that, and a lot of heated arguments going on in the meeting room. In that situation, how can they eat the government’s food during the lunch break?” said one farmer leader. “So they brought lunch for themselves from a gurdwara langar instead,” the farmer added. “Last time, there were photos of the farmers eating the Vigyan Bhavan buffet, which were put out by a government handle on social media. There were some unnecessary comments that the farmers were enjoying a sumptuous meal at government expense,” said one member of the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-refuse-to-break-bread-with-government/article33244745.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lottery, gambling and betting taxable under GST Act: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that lottery, gambling and betting are taxable under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Act. The court held that lottery, betting and gambling were “actionable claims” and came within the definition of ‘goods’ under Section 2(52) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the levy of GST on lotteries did not amount to “hostile discrimination”. “Lottery, betting and gambling are well known concepts and have been in practice in this country since before Independence and were regulated and taxed by different laws. When the 2017 Act defines the ‘goods’ to include actionable claims and included only three categories of actionable claims, i.e., lottery, betting and gambling, for purposes of levy of GST, it cannot be said that there was no rationale for Parliament in including these three actionable claims for tax purposes, and leaving others,” Justice Bhushan wrote in the 87-page judgment. Already regulated The court said State regulation, including taxation in one form or other, on lottery, betting and gambling, had been in existence for decades. Justice Bhushan was responding to arguments made by Skill Lotto Solutions and other lottery agents that lottery was not ‘goods’ and GST on it was illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lottery-gambling-and-betting-taxable-under-gst-act-sc/article33245254.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||ED searches PFI premises||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday carried out nationwide searches on the premises of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and those of its members in connection with money laundering allegations. “The searches were conducted in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala,” said a senior agency official. The premises of PFI chairman O.M. Abdul Salam were also included. Multiple locations in Kochi, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala; Chennai, Madurai and Tenkasi in Tamil Nadu; Kolkata and Murshidabad in West Bengal; Bengaluru in Karnataka; Shaheen Bagh in Delhi; Lucknow and Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh; Purnia and Darbhanga in Bihar; Aurangabad in Maharashtra; and Jaipur in Rajasthan were covered. The ED has been probing a money laundering angle based on various criminal charges faced by the alleged PFI activists, who have denied all allegations. The investigation by multiple agencies is said to be linked to the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests and the ensuing Delhi riots. According to the ED, as many as 73 bank accounts maintained by the PFI, its related entity Rehab India Foundation (RIF) and certain individuals/entities with 17 different banks have been detected. A scrutiny of transactions revealed that Rs. 120.5 crore was credited in these accounts and most of it was withdrawn instantly, or within a couple of days. About Rs. 50 lakh in foreign contributions was transferred to the RIF’s bank account from three foreign entities, even though it is not registered under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, the agency alleged. Searches condemned The PFI condemned what it called “unjust ED searches”. A statement issued by Muhammed Shakif, the party’s national secretary, said: “The Central government has come under immense pressure following the farmers’ protests blockading Delhi and the ED raids are nothing but a gimmick to divert the issue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-searches-pfi-premises-across-india/article33244769.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Three sentenced in fake currency case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court has sentenced three persons to prison, along with the imposition of fine, in a fake currency circulation racket registered and investigated by the agency in March 2018. The NIA officials, along with the police, had raided a house in Madanayakanahalli on the outskirts of the city and arrested Mohammed Sajjad Ali, M.G. Raju, Gangadhar Ramappa Kolkar, and Vanitha from various parts of Bengaluru in March 2018. The officials seized from them fake Indian currency notes worth Rs. 6,84,000 in denominations of Rs. 2,000. During the course of the investigation, the involvement of four more persons — Vijay from Karnataka and Sabiruddin, Abdul Kadir, and Jahiruddin from Malda, West Bengal — was revealed. Vijay, Sabiruddin, and Abdul Kadir were arrested, while Jahiruddin is still absconding. After completing the investigation, the NIA filed a charge-sheet against Mohammed Sajjad Ali, M.G. Raju, Gangadhar Ramappa Kolkar, and Vanitha on November 2018, and subsequently filed supplementary charge-sheets against Abdul Kadir, Sabiruddin, and Vijay. On Tuesday, the NIA special court, Bengaluru, framed charges against all the seven charge-sheeted. Mohammed Sajjad Ali, M.G. Raju, and Abdul Kadir pleaded guilty and were sentenced, respectively, to six years of simple imprisonment along with a fine of Rs. 10,000, five years of simple imprisonment along with a fine of Rs. 5,000, and two years of simple imprisonment along with a fine of Rs. 5,000. The trial against the remaining four accused is continuing, as isthe investigation for the absconding Jahiruddin.  The case  NIA officials, along with the police, arrested Mohammed Sajjad Ali, M.G. Raju, Gangadhar Ramappa Kolkar, and Vanitha in March 2018. They seized fake currency notes worth Rs. 6,84,000 from them  During the course of the investigation, the involvement of four more persons was revealed. Three have been arrested||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-sentenced-in-fake-currency-case/article33244717.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s test positivity rate drops to 8.89%||Kerala’s cumulative COVID-19 cases rose to 6,20,049 on Thursday with 5,376 new positive cases detected from the testing of 60,476 samples. The test positivity rate, however, dropped to 8.89%. The active case pool was 60,476 cases. The Health department added 31 more deaths to the State’s official list. Kollam reported seven deaths, Alappuzha six, Thiruvananthapuram five, Thrissur four, Malappuram three, Kannur and Kozhikode two each and one death each was reported from Wayanad and Ernakulam. Of the 5,376 new cases reported on Thursday, 5,295 cases are locally acquired infections, with no epidemiological link established in the case of 527 infections and healthcare workers accounting for 44 of the cases. Malappuram district reported 714 cases, Thrissur 647, Kozhikode 547, Ernakulam 441, Thiruvananthapuram 424, Alappuzha 408, Palakkad 375, Kottayam 337, Pathanamthitta 317, Kannur 288, Kollam 285, Idukki 265, Wayanad 238 and Kasaragod 90 cases. Telangana recorded 609 cases on Wednesday from 53,686 samples. Three more COVID-19 patients died. Throughout November, daily tests did not cross 47,000. December opened with over 50,000 samples being tested in a day. The 609 new cases include 114 in Greater Hyderabad, 48 in Rangareddy, and 45 in Medchal Malkajgiri. From March 2 to December 2, a total of 56,05,306 samples were tested and 2,71,492 were found to be positive. Out of the total cases, 8,999 were active. The infection tally in Andhra Pradesh crossed 8.7 lakh with the detection of 664 new cases on Thursday. The number of samples tested in a day slightly increased to 63,049 and the daily positivity rate was down to 1.05%. The overall positivity rate for 1.02 crore samples tested so far was 8.51% and the tests per million ratio was 1.91 lakh. Nine districts reported fresh deaths, and Krishna and Chittoor reported two fatalities each. They were followed by Anantapur, Kadapa, Nellore, Prakasam, Visakhpatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari which reported one death each. Also, Krishna and Chittoor reported 105 new infections each in the past day, and had a higher incidence than the remaining districts with less than 100 cases. Visakhapatnam reported 73 new infections, Guntur 72, West Godavari 70, East Godavari 67, Prakasam 40, Nellore 34, Anantapur 29, Kadapa 21, Vizianagaram 19, Kurnool 19 and Srikakulam 10. The district infection tallies were: East Godavari (1,22,488), West Godavari (92,685), Chittoor (83,980), Guntur (73,127), Anantapur (66,772), Prakasam (61,538), Nellore (61,531), Kurnool (60,269), Visakhapatnam (58,361), Kadapa (54,432), Krishna (45,780), Srikakulam (45,484) and Vizianagaram (40,734). Krishna (1,220) and Guntur (1,025) had more than one-third of the State’s active cases as of Thursday. Six districts including Prakasam, Anantapur, Kadapa, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Kurnool together had only 19% active cases. Tamil Nadu continued to report less than 1,500 cases of COVID-19 for the eighth day in a row. A fresh incidence of 1,416 was reported in the State on Thursday of which 382 were in Chennai and 140 (including two returnees) in Coimbatore. While 14 more persons died, 1,413 persons were discharged after treatment. Perambalur recorded nil new cases, while Ramanathapuram reported a single case of COVID-19. Five other districts had cases in single digits - Ariyalur (5), Dharmapuri (9), Kallakurichi (3), Ranipet (6), Tirupattur (8). There were 88 cases in Salem, 81 in Tiruvallur, 77 in Chengalpattu and 63 in Tiruppur. Of the 14 fatalities, Chennai accounted for six deaths and Chengalpattu had two deaths.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-reports-daily-positivity-rate-of-105/article33244738.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Convicted legislators can’t be barred for life from polls’||The Central government has told the Supreme Court that it rejected the idea of barring convicted legislators for life from contesting elections, forming or becoming an office-bearer of a political party. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice said an elected representative of the people cannot be equated with public servants who are banned for a lifetime on conviction. The government said disqualification under the Representation of the People Act of 1951 for the period of the prison sentence and six years thereafter was enough for legislators. The Centre’s stand differs from that taken by the Election Commission, which endorsed a life ban as necessary to “champion the cause of decriminalisation of politics”. The case is based on a plea by Supreme Court advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, who argued that a life ban on conviction should uniformly apply for members of the judiciary, executive and the legislature. There should not be any discrimination of one from the other. Mr. Upadhyay said an MP or MLA convicted for offences enumerated in Section 8 of the Representation of the People Act should be banned for life. He argued that while a public servant or a government employee is debarred for life on conviction for offences under the Indian Penal Code, money laundering law, foreign exchange violation, UAPA or cheque cases, among other laws, a legislator is “only disqualified for the same offences for a specified period”. The Ministry however countered that legislators are not bound by specific “service conditions”. “They are bound by their oath to serve citizens and country... They are bound by propriety, good conscience and interest of the nation,” said the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/convicted-legislators-cant-be-barred-for-life-from-polls/article33244741.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Border challenge continues: Navy chief||The Indian Navy had on several occasions deployed its P-8I long-range reconnaissance aircraft on the northern borders during the ongoing stand-off in eastern Ladakh, Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Thursday while stating that attempts to “change status quo” on the northern borders had increased the complexities in the country’s security situation. “The P-8I is a potent platform that has certain equipment that can be used on the border. Based on the requirements of the Army and the IAF, we have deployed the P-8I on several occasions. We have also deployed the Heron Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) from one of the northern bases,” he said in response to a question from The Hindu at the annual press conference ahead of the Navy Day. The Navy had also deployed the P-8Is on the northern borders during the 73-day Doklam stand-off with China in 2017. Talking of the challenges this year, Adm. Singh said 2020 had been defined by COVID-19 which had permeated and disrupted every aspect of people’s lives, and a near simultaneous attempt to change the status quo on the northern borders had increased the complexities in the security situation. “This dual challenge scenario continues as we speak,” he said. On Chinese naval presence in the Indian Ocean Region, Adm. Singh said that Chinese research vessels and fishing vessels had been deployed but there had been “no infringement” on Indian maritime boundaries. On the possible deployment of the two MQ-9B Predator drones that were leased from General Atomics of the U.S., Adm. Singh said that depended on the requirements of the Army or the IAF. In mid-April, the Navy inducted two Predator drones on lease for a short period which were capable platforms with endurance of over 33 hours, he said. General Atomics would be doing maintenance and provide the Predator, while the data and operations would be with the Indian Navy. Adm. Singh said the two Predators were pre-production models and the planned procurement of 30 Predators for the three services would be much more capable.  We have also deployed Heron Unmanned Aerial Vehicle from a northern base Admiral Karambir Singh Navy chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/border-challenge-continues-navy-chief/article33244767.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,||It’s a happy beginning in the middle of a pandemic||It was a heart-warming story in the time of the pandemic that unfolded at Vatsalya Bhavan Annexe, Vaduthala, here on Thursday morning, as people came to greet and congratulate Aparna and Sanimon, newly married and setting out on a new phase of their lives. Thursday was a glorious occasion. Aparna grew up at Vatsalya Bhavan at Palluruthy. Vastsalya Bhavan is a home for children in distress, a home like Don Bosco Sneha Bhavan, which provides shelter to boys in distress. She had reached Vatsalya Bhavan after Child Line workers came to her and her brother’s help in 2007. Aparna said on Thursday that she had completed her Masters in Business Administration, and was now working in a private company as an accountant. Her husband and she are now preparing to move to Ras Al Khaimah, where he works. Child Line had come to help her and her brother after their family was in great difficulty. She reached Vatsalya Bhavan and completed her schooling, and then went on to complete her higher studies. Around 40 people, including Hibi Eden, MP, and Councillors from the Kochi Corporation, joined the celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-a-happy-beginning-in-the-middle-of-a-pandemic/article33244724.ece
04 December 2020||KOCHI,||Big role for Sivasankar in smuggling: Customs||An investigation carried out by the Customs has revealed the active involvement of M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, including the help extended to the main accused in the case, according to Customs officials. Objecting a bail plea of the former bureaucrat before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, the Customs officials said Mr. Sivasankar was a highly influential person who was not reluctant to peddle his influence as evident from his past conduct. He has intimate connection with all prime accused in the case and it has been revealed that they all were receiving his aid, advice, and help. Active involvement Materials collected by the Customs, which were submitted in a sealed cover to the court, clearly revealed his active involvement in the commission of culpable offences. Though the petitioner had been using two telephones, he had stoutly denied its existence. However, the two telephones were surrendered to the Customs through his wife. These aspects clearly showed that the accused was not revealing the full truth even after prolonged questioning, the Customs said. The agency submitted that it was revealed that the petitioner had “intense connection abroad” and he had made a number of visits to several countries while in office in the company of some of the prime accused in the case. “It may not be out of place to point out that the Customs is enjoined to conduct investigation” even abroad, the agency submitted. The Customs submitted that Mr. Sivasankar had pretended illness and got himself admitted to a hospital where his wife was working to avoid arrest.  He has intimate connection with all prime accused in the case, say officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-role-for-sivasankar-in-smuggling-customs/article33245003.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Two homes for trans children in Bengaluru||India’s first homes for transgender children in need of care and protection will soon be established in Bengaluru. The Ministry of Women and Child Development gave its nod for the project last week. The minutes of the supplementary Project Approval Board (PAB) under child protection services said two government-run homes for transgender children will be established in Bengaluru Urban. Children in need of care and protection include orphans, abandoned children, street children, child labourers and child victims of abuse. Pallavi Akurathi, head of the Directorate of Child Protection, who mooted the idea, said she had learnt that many transgender children in State-run children’s homes for girls or boys were not comfortable. “My field staff informed me that in many instances, when transgender children in need of care and protection are produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), they are not able to place them in existing homes for boys and girls. I interacted with several people from the transgender community who spoke about the violence and abuse they faced and decided that it is best a home is established for such a vulnerable section,” she said. As it was a new initiative, it was not an easy task to get approval from the Central government. It was not approved in the PAB held in May 2020; she resubmitted the proposal in the supplementary PAB held on October 15. The two homes would have the capacity to house 50 children each. Ms. Akurathi has asked officials of the department to conduct a recce to understand where transgender children in need of care and protection are located, and to understand the challenges they face. Antony Sebastian, Chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said it is essential that a home is established for transgender children as they face a lot of stigma and abuse. “They will not fit in homes for boys or girls. Establishing a separate home and giving them attention and care at a young age will help address some of their concerns.” Pallavi Shivappa Jakali, 35, a transgender based in Ramdurg, Belagavi, was brought up in a children’s home run by an NGO. “I grew up in a boys’ home and was constantly bullied. Because of this, I would dress as a man and hide my identity,” she said, adding that she came out as a transgender only when she was 17 years old. She felt the move to establish a separate home for transgenders would help people like her cross the many hurdles they face in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-homes-for-trans-children-in-bengaluru/article33245253.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. not in favour of night curfew: Bommai||“In my personal opinion, I do not think night curfew is required. I also do not feel that the second wave will be severe in the State. However, I will discuss this with our experts in the Technical Adviosry Committee and seek their opinion. Final decision on restrictions during Christmas and New Year Eve celebrations will be made after consultations with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and cabinet colleagues,” he said asserting that the advisory note based on TAC’s recommendations had not yet reached him. Pointing out that usually New Year celebrations see large crowds gathering, the Minister said it is practically very difficult to enforce social distancing and ensure that everyone is wearing mask. “COVID-19 cases are on the decline now and we need to ensure that they do not spike again. There were restrictions in place even during Ganesha Chaturthi, Dasara and Deepavali festivals and even for Rajyotsava celebrations. I appeal to people that they should voluntarily avoid large gatherings and celebrate at home or at small gatherings,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-not-in-favour-of-night-curfew-bommai/article33245265.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Manipur police station chosen best in country||He had directed that parameters should be laid down for grading police stations and assessing their performance based on feedback. This year’s survey for best police stations was conducted under challenging circumstances by the MHA. It was difficult to access police stations located in remote areas during the COVID-19 pandemic due to various restrictions on movement, the MHA said. “The Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah has said that a vast majority of police stations short-listed from the thousands of police stations in the country are police stations located in small towns and rural areas. This is also true for those police stations which have been ranked among the top 10. This indicates that while availability of resources is important, more important is the dedication and sincerity of our police personnel to prevent and control crime and serve the nation,” it said. The number of police stations selected initially from each State comprised three from States with more than 750 police stations, two from all other States and Delhi and one each from Union Territories. In all, five police stations were selected for next stage of the ranking process. “In the final stage, 19 parameters were identified to evaluate the standards of service delivery and identify techniques of improvement in policing. This part constituted 80% weightage,” it said. The balance was based on infrastructure and feedback of citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-police-station-chosen-best-in-country/article33244735.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Rajinikanth to launch political party in January||Ending years of oscillation, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth announced on Thursday that he would launch a political party in January 2021 to contest in the Assembly election. The date of the launch will be announced on December 31. “In the upcoming election, we will achieve a big victory with the support of the people. A ‘spiritual politics’ will emerge in Tamil Nadu that will bring transparency, honesty, politics with no corruption and one that is free of caste and religious bias,” he wrote on Twitter. Adding that miracles and wonders would happen, he sought to place before his supporters the slogans ‘Will change everything’ and ‘Now or never’. The actor appointed R. Arjunamoorthy, who resigned as BJP Tamil Nadu unit intellectual cell president on Thursday, as the proposed party’s “chief coordinator”. Political activist Tamilaruvi Manian, considered one of the guiding forces behind the actor’s decision, was appointed the “overseer” of party affairs. Although he had, on the last day of 2017, announced his political entry was a certainty for the Assembly election, he gave conflicting signals since then, opting out of projecting himself as the chief ministerial candidate and declaring that his health condition warranted restrictions on his movement. Speaking to journalists at his Poes Garden residence, he cited the pandemic and said he was thinking how this [fighting the election] could be done without meeting the people. “But then, when I was ill in Singapore, I came back alive because of their [people’s] prayers. I will be more than happy now if I lose my life for the people. Political change is very important and the need of the hour. If it doesn’t happen now, it won’t happen ever. Everything needs to be changed,” he said. “I am just a small instrument. If I win, it is people’s victory. If I lose, it is people’s loss. I request people to be with me.” He recalled his December 31, 2017, announcement and said in March, he had said, “We need to create an uprising among people and then I will start a party. I planned to tour Tamil Nadu, but the pandemic made it impossible...” Elaborating on his fragile health, the actor said, “Everybody knows I have had a kidney transplant. The natural immunity needs to be reduced to enable the body to accept a new organ. However, the body needs immunity to fight COVID-19. This is a big problem. Doctors advised it was dangerous to meet people and campaign.” But now he had decided to take the plunge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajini-will-launch-party-in-jan-contest-tn-election/article33244840.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||CISCE wants schools to reopen from January 4||In his statement, Mr. Arathoon noted that schools had been closed since March due to COVID-19, but most schools affiliated to the Council had continued with the teaching-learning process in an online, offline or blended manner. As the academic year was drawing to a close, the Council has requested the Central Election Commissioner to share the election dates of States due to go to the polls in April-May 2021 to ensure that there is no clash with the examination schedules. “For the final run-up to the examinations, the CISCE has requested the Chief Ministers of all State governments/Union Territories to allow schools to reopen partially,” said the statement. It added that if permitted to open, schools will follow all COVID-19 safety protocols. “With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work, SUPW [or Socially Useful Productive Work] and for doubt-clearing lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” said Mr. Arathoon. Although the Centre had permitted schools to reopen from mid-October, few State governments have taken the decision to allow school students to return to physical classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cisce-wants-schools-to-reopen-from-january-4/article33244732.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in protest||He added: “When the government of India had brought the Ordinances, assurance was given to us that the farmers apprehensions on these Ordinances would be addressed to their satisfaction, when these would be converted to Bills and subsequently into Acts. Accordingly, even I appealed to the farmers to trust the government’s word. But I was shocked when the government simply went back on its word.” “That was the most painful and embarrassing moment in my long political career. I just cannot put in words the emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why the government of India has become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards farmers,” he wrote, adding, “I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today when he has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padama Vibhushan honour.” Mr. Badal described the betrayal of the farmers by the government as “bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country” adding that “farmer finds himself waging bitter struggles in severe cold just to secure his fundamental right to live”. He said he has been “deeply pained also by the communal insinuations being thrown at the peacefully and democratically protesting farmers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/badal-returns-padma-vibhushan-in-protest/article33244734.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Former councillor held in D.J. Halli violence case||The CCB had summoned and questioned both Sampath Raj and Zakir on August 18, but the latter fled after the second notice was issued. Sampath Raj got admitted to a hospital meanwhile, thepolice said. After being discharged, Sampath Raj joined Zakir and the duo took shelter in a farm house in Nagarahole. The CCB arrested Riyazuddin, a civil contractor and a close aide of Sampath Raj, on November 7 for allegedly giving the accused shelter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-councillor-held-in-dj-halli-violence-case/article33245264.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC notice on plea seeking ban on online gambling||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL seeking ban on all forms of online gambling or online betting till the State comes out with a mechanism to regulate these online activities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on a petition filed by Sharada D.R., a resident of Davanagere. Pointing out that there is complete regulatory vacuum in Karnataka as far as online gambling and betting activities are concerned, the petitioner contended that ban is essential as vulnerable sections of society, particularly the youth, adolescents and even children are prone to hazardous and predatory situation. Stating that the existing provisions of the Karnataka Police Act merely puts restrictions on gaming or gambling in traditional forms with certain exceptions, it has been claimed in the petition that there is no mechanism even to monitor online gambling or gaming even though there are many puritan games of chances in vogue on the Internet. Though the courts cannot compel the States to enact a legislation, the courts have ample power to direct the government to regulate and monitor an activity impacting the social and economic health of society, the petitioner contended, while seeking a direction from the court to the government for regulating online gambling. The petitioner also pointed out that the High Courts of Madras and Gujarat recently asked the respective States to examine online gambling activities, including whether such activities were used for money laundering, to take suitable action to regulate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-notice-on-plea-seeking-ban-on-online-gambling/article33244718.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Government offers eight amendments to farm laws||He listed several areas of concern where the government is willing to consider changes to the laws. These include placing safeguards to ensure that land alienation is not possible via contract farming; strengthening the State-run mandi system and possibly equalising taxes in these markets and private markets; allowing grievance redressal in civil courts rather than just in the offices of Sub-Divisional Magistrates; and ensuring registration of private traders beyond the requirement of a PAN card. Issues related to stubble burning and power subsidies were also discussed. “With regard to MSP, we gave an assurance that it was there, is there and will continue to be there,” said Mr. Tomar, appealing to farmers to end their protest. Some farmer leaders said a written statement that MSP will continue is also on the table, but not a legal guarantee. Farmer groups say their problems with the laws are more fundamental and cannot be resolved with a few changes. “When a law goes wrong in its objectives, then the provisions will also be wrong. The list of all the problems is so long that it is not worth keeping the law. A bad law will only become worse,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, the only woman on the 40-member farmers delegation, who represents the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch. “The talks have made a little progress, especially on the issue of MSP. But the government wants to talk about amendments, while the farmers want a full rollback,” said Rakesh Tikait, who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, mostly in western Uttar Pradesh, that joined hands with the Punjab unions on Wednesday evening. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the united alliance of farmers groups coordinating the protests, will hold a strategy meeting at 11 a.m. on Friday at the Singhu border crossing, in order to consider their next options in this stalemate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/government-offers-eight-amendments-to-farm-laws/article33244733.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India’s vaccines will be available after phase 3 trials’||He is currently involved in testing several novel and re-purposed drugs for COVID-19. “There is a harmony among drug regulators globally,” said Dr. Vishwakarma. “So a drug or a vaccine approved by the U.S. FDA (Food and Drug Administration) is approved here with some bridging studies (limited trials on local population to establish equivalence and effect). Were Pfizer to apply in India to the regulator here, it could in theory be approved within days or weeks here, depending on whether the Drug Controller is satisfied with the data. If the situation so demands, the regulator has the power to waive or recommend more tests, and doesn’t necessarily require Indian data,” he added. Covishield is based on the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine candidate, ChAdOx1 ncov19, and is being tested in 16,000 volunteers across the country. Covaxin has just begun Phase 3 trials and is being tested in 28,500 volunteers across the country. SII CEO, Adar Poonawalla, has said that the company plans to approach the Central Drugs Standards and Control Organisation for an EUA within two weeks. The EUA is not an approval. It is permission granted to a company for a limited time to offer a vaccine or a drug to people to tide over a crisis. For a formal approval, the company must eventually offer all data on the drug’s efficacy, side-effects and adverse events to the regulator for it to determine if the vaccine or drug ought to be approved in the country. Several drugs, like Remdesivir and Fapiravir, have been given an EUA but have been added or removed from recommended treatment guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research over time. Indian officials have said that they have a broad blueprint ready to vaccinate 30 crore high-risk individuals within the first half of next year. Covaxin and Covishield are the furthest ahead among Indian vaccines in the approval journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-vaccines-will-be-available-after-phase-3-trials/article33244731.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||IMA can move HC to get salaries: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a contempt petition filed by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), beseeching the court to help doctors in Delhi to get their salaries paid on time amid the raging battle against the pandemic. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate Maninder Singh said that on one hand doctors are hailed as “frontline warriors” against COVID-19, while on the other, they are not paid their monthly salaries. The Supreme Court agreed with Mr. Singh. The court gave IMA liberty to move the Delhi High Court, where their case is already pending, seeking immediate relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-can-move-hc-to-get-salaries-sc/article33244760.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Officials start compiling list for COVID vaccine||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials concerned to prepare a database of frontline health workers, police personnel and sanitation workers who should be covered on priority when vaccination for novel coronavirus (COVID-19) begins in the State. The Chief Secretary on Thursday chaired the first meeting of the State-level steering committee that was held at BRKR Bhavan to discuss about the preparedness of the administration of COVID-19 vaccine. He reviewed logistical arrangements, transportation, training of Health department staff and cold chain facilities. Mapping of health facilities, IEC campaign and other issues were also discussed at the meeting. Mr. Somesh Kumar wanted the departments to work in a coordinated way and make systematic arrangements for the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination. The officials concerned should prepare a protocol for vaccination centres to ensure that the programme progresses in a smooth way, according to an official release. Senior officials participated in the meeting.  Depts. should work in a coordinated way and make systematic arrangements for the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/officials-start-compiling-list-for-covid-vaccine/article33245331.ece
04 December 2020||Hassan,||Prohibitory orders issued after tension in Shivamogga||Tension prevailed in parts of Shivamogga town on Thursday following a series of incidents, including assault on a Bajrang Dal activist, since late night on Wednesday. The police have been deployed in sensitive areas to avoid any untoward incident. Prohibitory orders have been clamped in Shivamogga city till 10 a.m. on Saturday. Three construction workers were assaulted by unknown people at Gopala on Wednesday night. Manju Naik, Sudhir and Naveen suffered injuries in the incident. They are undergoing treatment in a hospital in Shivamogga. Activist attacked  Early morning on Thursday Nagesh, an activist of Bajrang Dal, was attacked by unknown people near Deepak Petrol Bunk. He suffered injuries on his head and face. Stone-pelting  Later in the day, minor incidents of breach of the peace were reported in Gandhi Bazar and other nearby areas. A couple of vehicles were damaged in stone-pelting. Senior police officers rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. However, business area remained closed following the incidents. It is said the heated arguments over sharing the parking place between two groups of shopkeepers turned violent. Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, who visited the private hospital where Nagesh, the injured, was admitted, said the police have to bring out the truth behind these incidents and arrest the accused. Further, he speculated that the recent developments over the reintroduction of the bill to stop cow slaughter and law to avoid “love jihad”, could be the motives behind the attack on Bajrang Dal activist. Eastern Range IGP S. Ravi, Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaj visited the business street and brought the situation under control. Mr. Ravi told The Hindu that there was an isolated incident at Gopala on Wednesday and three-four connected incidents in the town on Thursday. “There were incidents of breach of peace involving Hindus and Muslims. Now, the situation is calm,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prohibitory-orders-issued-after-tension-in-shivamogga/article33244730.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC to quash U.P. ordinance||A petition was filed on Thursday in the Supreme Court to declare two ordinances, passed separately by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, criminalising religious conversion through marriage as unconstitutional. Two advocates and a law researcher have approached the court against the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition Of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. Advocates Vishal Thakre, A.S. Yadav and researcher, Pranvesh, represented by advocates Sanjeev Malhotra and Pradeep Kumar Yadav, said the ordinances sweep the carpet from under the fundamental right to personal liberty, dignity and choice of companion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-to-quash-up-ordinance/article33244742.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Nothing short of total repeal, says Rahul||Anything short of repealing the farm laws would be a betrayal of India and its farmers, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday. Several other leaders, especially from Punjab, endorsed Mr. Gandhi’s demand for a complete rollback of the farm laws. Tagging Mr. Gandhi’s comment, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Sidhu tweeted, “No Compromise on this Stand!!!”. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, attacked BJP leaders for branding farmers as “traitors” and calling their protests an international conspiracy. Former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar said the government should not make the farm bills a matter of “prestige”. “Without standing on prestige, the Central government should suspend the operation of controversial laws and respect the sentiments of the community for whose benefit the laws are stated to have been passed,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nothing-short-of-total-repeal-says-rahul/article33244743.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks winter session of Parliament||A day after protesting farmers demanded a special Parliament session, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday wrote to Speaker Om Birla to convene a short winter session. In his letter, Mr. Chowdhury mentioned a number of issues such as farmers’ agitation, status/preparation of COVID-19 vaccine, Chinese intrusion, economic slowdown and unemployment scenario to press for the session. Mr. Chowdhury is likely to raise this issue at Friday’s all-party meeting on COVID-19 to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The demand was backed by Manish Tewari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-winter-session-of-parliament/article33244751.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Go-ahead to operate more flights||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Thursday announced that airlines could fly 80% of flights that they operated pre-COVID-19, raising it from the existing 70%. “Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May & have now touched a high of 2.52 lakhs on 30 Nov,” Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri tweeted. International flights are yet to resume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/go-ahead-to-operate-more-flights/article33244752.ece
04 December 2020||Mumbai,||Akhtar submits statement in defamation plaint against Kangana||Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar on Thursday recorded his statement through his lawyer before the Andheri Metropolitan Court in connection with the compla-int of defamation filed by him against actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly making baseless comments against him. The court is slated to hear the matter on December 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhtar-submits-statement-in-defamation-plaint-against-kangana/article33244753.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||MDH Masala owner Mahashay Dharampal Gulati dies at 97||MDH Masala owner Mahashay Dharampal Gulati, 97, died here on Thursday. Gulati, who was awarded Padma Bhushan last year, was undergoing post-COVID-19 treatment. Born in Sialkot (now in Pakistan) in 1923, he came to India after Partition. Mahashian Di Hatti (MDH) was founded by his father Mahashay Chunni Lal Gulati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mdh-masala-owner-mahashay-dharampal-gulati-dies-at-97/article33244755.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC grants custody parole to Shahabuddin to meet kin in Delhi||The Delhi High Court has granted custody parole for three days to former MP Mohd. Shahabuddin, who is lodged in Tihar Jail and serving life term in a murder case, to meet his family in the national capital. The former Rashtriya Janata Dal MP had sought parole to visit Siwan to meet his family on account of his father’s death. Police had said that they could not assure his safety in Siwan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-grants-custody-parole-to-shahabuddin-to-meet-kin-in-delhi/article33244756.ece
04 December 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC allows Varavara Rao to remain in Nanavati Hospital till December 14||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said poet Varavara Rao, 81, accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, will remain at Nanavati Hospital till December 14. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a plea filed by senior advocates Indira Jaisingh and Anand Grower on behalf of Mr. Rao’s wife Hemlata, citing his multiple ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-allows-varavara-rao-to-remain-in-nanavati-hospital-till-december-14/article33244757.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ensure dignity to the dead at hospitals, mortuaries’||Former Union Law Minister Ashwani Kumar has written to Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde to take suo motu cognisance and lay down a uniform protocol to ensure that the dead are treated with dignity in hospitals and mortuaries. His letter referred to “heart wrenching visuals on TV of a dog nibbling away at the remains of a dead girl” in a hospital in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-dignity-to-the-dead-at-hospitals-mortuaries/article33244761.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19: Rahul takes a dig at PM Modi after official says Centre never talked about vaccinating everyone||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Thursday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Health Secretary said the government never promised COVID-19 vaccine to all. “PM — Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections — Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI — Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-rahul-takes-a-dig-at-pm-modi-after-official-says-centre-never-talked-about-vaccinating-everyone/article33244768.ece
04 December 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||High Court transfers probe into ‘custodial torture case’ to CB-CID||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has transferred the probe into the case of alleged custodial torture of a youth in Saptur and his death to the CB-CID. The court said the move should not be deemed to cast any aspersion on the rights and defences of police, but it was to unearth truth. Justice G.R. Swaminathan, who had earlier ordered a re-post mortem in the case, issued a series of guidelines for conduct of post mortems in cases involving custodial deaths. “A dead person is equally entitled to justice. I would call it posthumous justice. Whenever someone suffers an unnatural death, the circumstances that led to it will have to be unearthed,” the judge observed. The court directed the CB-CID to complete the probe within four months and submit a final report before the jurisdictional court. In its directions, the court said the Judicial Magistrate conducting the enquiry under Section 176(1)(A), Cr.P.C., should ensure that the family of the deceased or its representatives were allowed to see the body and take video and photographs. No autopsy should take place before the next of kin saw the body. If the family of the deceased refused to see the body, the Judicial Magistrate could allow post mortem. The autopsy should be carried out by a team of two doctors with Master’s degree in Forensic Medicine, who were attached to a medical college and hospital in the State. The body should be x-rayed to look for any fractures. The entire autopsy should be vidographed by adhering to the six phases set out in ‘A Textbook of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology’ 26th Edition, edited by Justice K. Kannan. The autopsy report should be given to the investigating officer expeditiously to avoid delay in filing of the final report. A copy of the report and videograph should be given to the legal heir or representatives of the family of the deceased. If after receipt of the autopsy report, the legal heir/representatives of the family of the deceased gave in writing that they intended to move the HC, the body should be preserved in the mortuary for at least 48 hours, the judge said. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Santhosh, brother of Ramesh, 20, who was found hanging from a tree allegedly after custodial torture. It is said that their elder brother Idhayakani had eloped with a relative girl, and her family filed a complaint with Saptur police. The petitioner alleged that they were subjected to torture by the police on a regular basis in the name of inquiry and sought a re-post mortem and a CB-CID probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-transfers-probe-into-custodial-torture-case-to-cb-cid/article33245387.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rajini is firm that he will not be the CM candidate’||While actor Rajinikanth has livened up the political scene ahead of the Assembly election, declaring that he would launch a political party in January, he remains firm on his stand that he will not be its Chief Ministerial candidate. “Till this minute, he has been firm about it. But people seem to expect him to be the Chief Ministerial candidate. We will see in due course of time,” Tamilaruvi Manian, appointed as an overseer of the party affairs, by the actor, told The Hindu on Thursday .  Mr. Manian, however, insisted that only Mr. Rajinikanth could create a transparent and non-corrupt administration. The actor’s decision to take the political plunge did come as a surprise. Just last Monday, during his conversation with Rajini Makkal Mandram office-bearers, Mr. Rajinikanth reportedly raised the possibility of his campaign getting derailed if he contracts COVID-19 during the election campaign. Asked what transpired in the last few days that made the actor change his decision, Mr. Manian said, “Nothing really changed. In his heart, it has been a running thought that he should keep his word [on his political entry, made on December 31, 2017]. He had said that he would enter politics, for sure, and that he would start a political party and contest the Assembly election in 2021. He did not want to be a person who did not keep his word. There has been no external pressure on him. These are all laughable things,” he said. Mr. Manian also spoke about the speculation over possible electoral alliances that Mr. Rajinikanth could strike, before the Assembly election. “He has not spoken a word about this. He is only thinking about starting a party and taking it to the people to understand their reactions, and assess what kind of an uprising it brings. He will speak about political alliances only after that,” he said. Second-line political leaders, who have the ears of Mr. Rajinikanth, told The Hindu that he was well aware of the disappointment he would create among fans if he decided to withdraw from politics. A politician, who is widely tipped to join him, said, “I have already discussed how his messages can be taken to villages, by installing LED screens. Mr. Rajinikanth has an extraordinary reach. He does not have to campaign like other political leaders.” Some observers felt that Mr. Rajinikanth’s announcement had given a new lease of life to smaller parties and other possible factions, who now held a trump card while negotiating seat-sharing agreements with the two major Dravidian parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajini-is-firm-that-he-will-not-be-the-cm-candidate/article33244845.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court to ban planting of exotic invasive species in Western Ghats||The Madras High Court has decided to ban planting and nurturing of exotic, invasive species that have stifled the growth of native shola forests and grasslands in the Western Ghats. As a first step towards the ban, the court has decided to obtain a list of such harmful exotic species from an authorised expert body on the subject. Justices M.M. Sundresh and N. Sathish Kumar on Thursday directed Special Government Pleader S.V. Vijay Prashanth to submit by December 22 the names of organisations such as National Biodiversity Authority in Chennai and Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding in Coimbatore which could be asked to provide a list of species that could be banned.  Funds for removal  After obtaining the list, “we shall pass orders prohibiting the planting of such species,” the senior judge in the Bench told the SGP. In so far as the herculean task of cutting down all invasive exotic species and preventing their regrowth was concerned, the judges asked the Forest department to come up with the budgetary allocation required for the purpose. They planned to issue appropriate orders to the government for sanctioning necessary funds. The felled exotic species could be used as firewood in State-run tea factories in the hilly regions, the judges suggested. They also wanted a plan for establishing nurseries for growing saplings of native species and planting them all over the ghats. The directions were issued after hearing submissions made by amicus curiae T. Mohan and M. Santhanaraman in a batch of cases in which the court had constituted an expert committee in January 2019 for suggesting ways and means to get rid of the invasive exotic species. Since then, the committee had filed multiple interim reports in the court.  MGNREGS workforce  Making it clear that it’s time to get into action, the judges said the services of the labourers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme could be utilised for the purpose of removing the harmful species. The judges also said they would be monitoring the progress by listing the case for hearing every month. Mr. Prashanth assured the court of filing periodical status reports during every hearing of the case. When the issue relating to removal of power lines from the forest areas was brought to the knowledge of judges, they suo motu impleaded Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation as well as Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation as parties to the case. On ban on plastics, Mr. Mohan told the court that Nilgiris district administration had been enforcing the ban strictly and that plastic bottles were not being permitted into the district. He said that ecologist Godwin Vasanth Bosco was helping in restoration of grasslands in the Nilgiris and that his assistance could also be taken by the Forest department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-to-ban-planting-of-exotic-invasive-species-in-western-ghats/article33244919.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trees uprooted by Nivar to be converted into useful products||Close to 400 tonnes of fallen trees collected from different parts of the city in the wake of Cyclone Nivar will be put to good use this time. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has tied up with a private company to convert the logs into useful products for industrial purposes. Many trees were uprooted across the city due to the impact of Cyclone Nivar. “Usually these trees are removed immediately and stored in dumpyards and later sold, by following a tender process. But this time we decided to put them to good use,” a civic official said. A few months ago, the Corporation tied up with Westart Communications India Pvt. Ltd., a garden waste management company, to convert tender coconut shells and tree branches and logs into useful products. “We have set up five plants across the city - Chetpet, Sowcarpet, Perungudi, Alandur and another one is being set up in Kodungaiyur. Each plant can process 80 tonnes per day,” said Satish Kumar, head of administration of the company. While the shells of tender coconuts are converted into coir and pith blocks, the wood is converted into briquettes. “The coir pith blocks are used for agriculture as they have high water-holding capacity. The briquettes are usually used as bio-fuel for boilers,” said Rijesh Kumar, operations manager of the company. He said 80 tonnes of wood can produce 50 tonnes of briquettes. “Usually we get 4.50 tonnes of tender coconut shells every day. This will help produce 2.5 tonnes of coir pith,” Mr. Satish said. After Cyclone Nivar, the Perungudi plant received 130 tonnes of tree waste. About 80 tonnes were received in Sowcarpet, 100 tonnes in Chetpet and 60 tonnes in Alandur. “The Corporation wanted to keep the city clean of debris and convert waste collected into useful products as soon as possible,” Mr. Satish explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trees-uprooted-by-nivar-to-be-converted-into-useful-products/article33245287.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 test must for medicos||Government medical colleges are gearing up to reopen on December 7 with precautionary measures in place for COVID-19. While students have been told to undergo a COVID-19 test, arrangements are being made to provide masks and ensure physical spacing on the campus. R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said the government’s instructions had been communicated to deans of all medical colleges in the State. They should take measures to run the colleges and hostels, keeping in mind the COVID-19 norms. “Wearing masks is a must for students. We have told institutions to provide masks to students. Strict handwashing should be followed in colleges and hostels. Institutions should provide hand sanitisers and handwash facilities in colleges and hostels. Students will be screened for fever before entering the campus and classrooms. In case any student has symptoms of COVID-19, the candidate can immediately go for testing at the institution,” he said. Maintaining adequate spacing in classrooms and hostels was not an issue in government medical colleges, he said and added: “All colleges have additional space. For instance, if a college has 100 seats, it has a capacity to accommodate 100 more students keeping in mind Medical Council of India norms. We will utilise the additional space to ensure that there is sufficient physical distancing in classrooms and laboratories. A majority of hostel rooms are twin-sharing facilities.” A college authority said: “The DME has issued directions to frame our own set of guidelines based on the instructions received from the State government and the National Medical Commission (NMC).” “Students should undergo COVID-19 testing prior to joining colleges. They can arrive on the day of reopening if they get the result by then. If not, they can come 24 to 48 hours earlier for a swab test on campus,” he added. As per NMC guidelines, the college would re-open in a phased manner, starting with final year MBBS students. “We will be dividing the students into batches. We are making arrangements to screen for fever and to provide sanitiser and face masks before they enter the classrooms. We are planning to conduct virtual classes to sensitise students on COVID-19,” he added. Another college authority said it was not necessary for all to come on December 7 and students could take two days more, depending on the availability of transportation. An MBBS student of a government medical college said they had received instructions to undergo COVID-19 testing before joining college. “Many students are waiting for colleges to reopen, worrying that the curriculum may be affected. However, institutions should ensure physical distancing should be maintained in colleges. At least, government medical colleges should provide masks for all students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-test-must-for-medicos/article33244881.ece
04 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ten district judges get elevated to Madras High Court||Ten district judges got elevated as judges of the Madras High Court on Thursday after Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi administered oath of office to them in a ceremony that was streamed live on the court’s YouTube channel. Immediately after taking oath, Justices G. Chandrasekharan, A.A. Nakkiran, V. Sivagnanam, G. Ilangovan, S. Ananthi, S. Kannammal, S. Sathikumar, K. Murali Shankar, R.N. Manjula and T.V. Thamilselvi began hearing cases in the High Court. In his welcome address, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said the working strength of the High Court judges had got increased to 64, as against its sanctioned strength of 75, with the assuming of office by 10 new judges.  13 women judges He expressed his wish to see the entire sanctioned strength of 75 judges getting filled up during his lifetime. He also stated that Madras High Court was the only High Court in the country to have as many as 13 women judges. Introducing the new appointees to the gathering, he said Justice Chandrasekharan was born in Srivilliputtur but pursued his schooling and higher education in Madurai. He got enrolled as an advocate in 1987 and served under senior counsel B.S. Gnanadesikan before getting appointed as a judicial magistrate in 1991. Justice Nakkiran hailed from Chennai bit obtained his law degree from the Government Law College in Tiruchi. He got enrolled as a lawyer in 1986 and entered Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in 1991. Justice Sivagnanam was from Mayiladuthurai but had obtained his law degree from the Government Law College in Puducherry. Justice Ilangovan from Tiruvarur district had served as the Registrar (Judicial) of Madurai Bench of Madras High Court besides holding various posts ever since he entered State judicial service in 1991. Justice Ananthi was born in Erode district and had pursued law both in Chennai and Madurai. Justice Kannammal too had entered judicial service in 1991 as a civil judge (junior division) and got promoted as district judge in 2012. Justice Sathikumar was from Chennai and his wife G. Nalini was a practising advocate in the High Court. The A-G also stated that Justices Murali Shankar and Thamilselvi, a married couple, had created history by getting elevated to the chartered High Court on the same day. Justice Manjula, hailing from Dindigul, was now pursuing doctoral programme in women’s studies. She had convicted the accused in the sensational Ayanavaram child serial rape case during her stint as district judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-district-judges-get-elevated-to-madras-high-court/article33245297.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to hold black-flag protests in support of ryots||The DMK will organise black-flag demonstrations in all district headquarters in support of the farmers’ protest in Delhi demanding withdrawal of the three farm-related laws. A resolution adopted in a virtual meeting of DMK district secretaries, chaired by party president M.K. Stalin, also accused Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of betraying the interests of farmers. “Though he proclaims himself as a farmer, he never bothered about the problems and difficulties of the farmers. In order to save his position, he is playing second fiddle to the BJP government at the Centre,” the resolution alleged. The meeting pointed out that there was no reference to minimum support price in those legislations and the objections of the DMK Parliament members fell on deaf ears. “The laws were enacted only to help the corporate houses,” the resolution also said. Mr. Stalin will participate in the demonstration in Salem while DMK general secretary Duraimurugan will take part in the protest in Vellore and treasurer T.R. Baalu will participate in Mayiladuthurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-hold-black-flag-protests-in-support-of-ryots/article33245304.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s allies do not expect Rajini to break new ground||Though actor Rajinikanth’s announcement about his political plunge has created a lot of expectations, leaders of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance do not expect him to break new ground in the State’s politics. “Let him first launch his party,” quipped TNCC president K.S. Alagiri. “Earlier, he said [the actor had only indicated] he had no plans to launch a party since his health was not in good condition. His argument was that it was wrong to launch a party without meeting the people. Today, he has announced that he will launch it. We do not know what he will do tomorrow. There is no point in commenting on his decision, since it is not going to benefit the people,” Mr. Alagiri said. He disagreed that Mr. Rajinikanth’s entry might work against the DMK and its allies, since he would split the anti-incumbency votes. “On the other hand, the BJP seems to have plans to undermine the ruling AIADMK,” he said. The Congress leader argued that the appointment of former BJP leader R. Arjunamoorthy, as the proposed party’s chief coordinator, was an indication of the BJP’s role in the actor’s decision. “Those with the actor clearly show the colour of his ideology. My personal advice to Mr. Rajinikanth is not to make a mistake in the last phase of his life,” he said. According to Mr. Alagiri, had the actor joined politics in 1996, when everyone wanted his entry, he could have made a change. “He has missed opportunities. Moreover, he is representing a divisive ideology,” he said. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan said that whether it was actor Kamal Haasan or Rajinikanth, they were unlikely to make an impact. “The kind of politics he is advocating will not cut ice with any of the DMK’s allies. I do not see any realignment in the DMK alliance. On the contrary, he can effect changes in the AIADMK alliance,” he said. The spiritual politics Mr. Rajinikanth is talking about will not gain currency, since no political party here has been questioning the religious faiths of people, he added. “He said he would launch the party in January, when elections would be a couple of months away. It will be very difficult for him to make a difference in a short span of time,” he said. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan said everyone had the right to launch a political party, but their success purely depended on the reception accorded by the people and the person’s calibre to sustain the party.  We do not know what he will do tomorrow. There is no point in commenting on his decision since it is not going to benefit the people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-allies-do-not-expect-rajini-to-break-new-ground/article33244844.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor’s entry triggers talk of realignment of forces||The proposed launch of a political party by actor Rajinikanth has brought to the fore the possibility of a realignment of political forces, but leaders of various parties have been guarded in their responses. Given the backdrop of Mr. Rajinikanth’s observations in favour of the position of the ruling BJP at the Centre on crucial issues such as dilution of Article 370 and the Citizenship Amendment Act, or his remark of likening Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Lord Krishna and Arjuna in the Mahabharata , there is a perception that Mr. Rajinikanth’s party will be an ally of the BJP. The talk in political circles is whether the BJP, in the event of the actor’s proposed party agreeing to be its partner, will retain its tie-up with the AIADMK or abandon the latter. Even though the actor is known to have friends in the Congress, the national party is apparently keen on continuing its relationship with the DMK for the 2021 Assembly poll. K.S. Narendran, State vice-president of the national party, who said Mr. Rajinikanth’s and his party’s support base complement each other, however, termed any talk of alliance as “premature”. At the same time, AIADMK’s coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam went on record, hinting at a tie-up between his party and Mr. Rajinikanth’s party. There have, however, been occasions when Mr. Rajinikanth sought to distance himself from the BJP. Two years ago, the actor, who initially welcomed demonetisation, said it was not implemented properly. In November 2019, he stated that there were attempts to smear him with the BJP’s saffron colour but that he would not get trapped. In his tweet, announcing the launch of the party in January, he mentioned “secularism”. Tamilaruvi Manian, overseer of the actor’s proposed party, said the governing principle of Mr. Rajinikanth’s politics would be one of unifying people of all religions. As for the impact of the actor’s entry into the vote base of the two principal parties, some office-bearers of the organisations said there would not be any adverse effect. Yet, there is a view that the parties’ vote base may suffer a dent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actors-entry-triggers-talk-of-realignment-of-forces/article33244852.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 1,416 new COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu continued to report less than 1,500 cases of COVID-19 for the eighth day in a row. As many as 1,416 persons tested positive in the State on Thursday, of which 382 were from Chennai and 140, including two returnees, from Coimbatore. While 14 more persons died, 1,413 persons recovered. Perambalur recorded no new cases, while Ramanathapuram reported one case of COVID-19. Five other districts reported cases in single digits — Ariyalur (5), Dharmapuri (9), Kallakurichi (3), Ranipet (6) and Tirupattur (8). There were 88 cases in Salem, 81 in Tiruvallur, 77 in Chengalpattu and 63 in Tiruppur. Of the 14 fatalities, Chennai accounted for six deaths and Chengalpattu had two. Coimbatore, Erode, Karur, Salem, Tirupattur and Tiruvarur recorded one death each. The youngest was a 40-year-old man from Tiruvarur, who did not have any co-morbid conditions. He died on December 1 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Among the 1,416 persons who tested positive, eight were returnees from Assam, Delhi, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 7,86,163. Till date, a total of 7,63,428 persons have recovered and 11,747 have died in the State. Currently, 10,988 persons are under treatment. This includes 3,536 persons in Chennai, 935 in Coimbatore, 529 in Chengalpattu, 522 in Salem, 520 in Tiruppur and 508 in Tiruvallur. In the last 24 hours, 70,156 samples were tested in the State. Till date, 1,22,64,069 samples have been tested. Three private laboratories — Bharat Specialty Labs, Tirunelveli, Global Calcium Diagnostic Services, Hosur, and Gem Laboratory, Coimbatore — were approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are 224 testing facilities — 67 in the government and 157 in the private sector.  In the last 24 hours, 70,156 samples were tested in the State. Till date, a total of 1,22,64,069 samples have been tested||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-1416-new-covid-19-cases/article33244869.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Loop Road-Besant Nagar link will cost Rs. 411 crore, HC told||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Thursday told the Madras High Court that it would cost Rs. 411 crore to construct a regular vehicular bridge connecting the Marina beach Loop Road with Besant Nagar through an existing broken bridge. The second Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh were told that alternatively, it would cost only Rs. 229 crore to construct a much narrow 10-m-wide bridge that could be used only by pedestrians and cyclists. Wondering what would be the purpose of a narrow bridge that could not be used by motorists, the judges suggested that the Corporation as well as the State government consider building a vehicular bridge since it would help in decongesting traffic on DGS Dhinakaran Road (Greenway’s Road). The judges also directed Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash to join the court proceedings through video call on Friday to find out whether the contract for supplying 900 smart push carts could be given to two different private firms so that all carts get supplied within three months. The direction was issued after Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal told the court that the tender for supplying all 900 carts had been given to a firm which had quoted Rs. 17.20 crore for the job. Though the firm wanted six months to deliver the carts, it had agreed to attempt delivery within three months, he said. On the other hand, senior counsel R. Silambanan, representing another firm, complained that his client was not given the contract despite offering to supply the carts for just Rs. 16.44 crore. It was then, the judges mooted the idea of dividing the contract into two equal halves and wanted to discuss the issue with the Commissioner. As far as construction of a fish market at the Loop Road was concerned, the judges were told that a report had been obtained from Anna University and submitted to the Centre for getting Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) clearance. However, tenders for constructing two foot over bridges at the Loop Road would be floated within two weeks, the Corporation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loop-road-besant-nagar-link-will-cost-rs-411-crore-hc-told/article33245284.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Replicating MGR’s legacy not possible without political work||In a State where cinema and politics are intricately woven, actor Rajinikanth’s politcial entry inevitably gets compared to the success of AIADMK founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, and his successor Jayalalithaa. But comparisons have proved odious, in the past, when actors who launched political parties met with limited success. Opinions differ if Mr. Rajinikanth can catapult himself into the big league. “Not at all. He is a person with no background in political work and has not engaged with the people. At best, he is running a fan club. He has been inconsistent, but sees configurations of the BJP’s stratagem in Tamil Nadu and is willing to roll with them,” said Ramu Manivannan, professor, Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras. Though there is no dispute about Mr. Rajinikanth’s appeal as a film hero, his lack of grounding in politics is a fact to reckon with. While actor Vijayakant achieved reasonable success in politics, thespian Sivaji Ganesan, representing the Congress and Janata Dal, T. Raajendhar and Bhagyaraj have failed miserably. “What is significant about the phenomenon of MGR is that he was not merely a political personality, but was a film star and a politician at once,” wrote M.S.S. Pandian in the preface to his book, The Image Trap: M.G. Ramachandran in Film and Politics . MGR and DMK benefitted from each other. “Given the DMK’s overt allegiance to cinema as a vehicle for political communication, it skilfully transferred MGR’s cinematic image to the domain of politics and invested it with certain life-like authenticity,” explains Mr. Pandian.   DMK deputy general secretary A. Raja pointed out that even MGR’s was an incidental growth as a politician. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said after MGR, it was Mr. Rajinikanth who was accorded a great status by Tamils. “But he has betrayed Tamils by allowing the BJP to handle him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/replicating-mgrs-legacy-not-possible-without-political-work/article33244850.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD steps up discharge from Chembarambakkam||As Cyclone Burevi brought rain over catchment areas on Thursday, the Water Resources Department (WRD) released more water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir around noon. The water release, which was a mere 21 cusecs (cubic foot per second) at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, was raised and maintained at 1,000 cusecs on Thursday. The reservoir at Chembarambakkam received 1,050 cusecs as inflow around 6 p.m. As it recorded 2 cm of rain, the WRD had sustained the storage at 3,179 mcft against its capacity of 3,645 mcft. Officials said a flood alert was given to areas along the Adyar river such as Kundrathur, Tiruneermalai and Tirumudivakkam. The river carried around 3,000 cusecs near Kotturpuram around Thursday noon. Poondi’s status While storage is being built at Red Hills, Cholavaram and Kannankottai Thervoy Kandigai reservoirs, the WRD has also regulated discharge from the one in Poondi according to rainfall and inflow. It decreased discharge into the Kosasthalaiyar river to nearly 2,900 cusecs by evening. Officials noted that the water released from the Poondi reservoir since November 25 is yet to drain into the sea near the Ennore Creek. “Water discharged from Poondi is not getting wasted. Flood water has helped recharge Metrowater well fields in Tamaraipakkam and Poondi, and also filled checkdams such as Tamaraipakkam, Thirukandalam and Irulipattu, so far,” an official said. The outflow still has to cover six checkdams in the 24-km stretch of the Kosasthalaiyar river, including in Jagannathapuram, Vannipakkam,Vallur and Sadayankuppam, before it reaches the Ennore Creek. While about 300 mcft has been diverted to Cholavaram, another drinking water reservoir, about 100 mcft has been stored in checkdams so far. Outflow from Palar Similarly, water released into the Palar river has filled the Vayalur checkdam in the tail-end. Wet weather since Cyclone Nivar has filled nearly 545 tanks of the total 909 tanks in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts. Another 269 tanks have more than 75% of their capacity. Some of the waterbodies that have filled up include those at Velachery, Sholinganallur, Tamaraikeni, Mannivakkam and Vandalur.  Water discharged from Poondi is not getting wasted. Flood water has helped recharge the Metrowater well fields in both Tamaraipakkam and Poondi, and also filled checkdams official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-continues-to-be-let-out-of-chembarambakkam-reservoir/article33245278.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||418 MBBS seats filled on fifth day||On the fifth day of general counselling for medical admissions on Thursday, 418 seats were allotted, including 363 in government medical colleges, 51 seats in self-financing medical colleges, and four in government dental colleges. While two candidates opted out, 14 aspirants chose to be wait-listed and 14 did not turn up. The officials had called 450 candidates for counselling and 436 attended. On Thursday, when counselling began, 1,222 seats were available in government medical colleges. At the end of the day, 859 seats were available in government medical colleges. There were 945 seats vacant in self-financing colleges, including 213 in the open category, when counselling ended on Thursday. In government dental colleges, there were 146 seats vacant, including 41 in the open category. In self-financing dental colleges, 985 seats, including 305 in the open category, were available. To a question on whether candidates had expressed inability to participate in the counselling due to Cyclone Burevi, selection committee secretary G. Selvarajan said they had not received any representation from aspirants so far. “Candidates can come at a later date and participate as there are seats. In case of representations, we will discuss with the government and take a call,” he said.  Candidates can come at a later date and participate as there are seats. In case of representations, we will discuss with the government and take a call||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/418-mbbs-seats-filled-on-fifth-day-14-students-skip-counselling/article33245293.ece
04 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||I will engage private security if required, J. Deepa tells HC||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa on Thursday told the Madras High Court that she was not interested in seeking police security and would instead prefer to engage the services of a private security agency, if required. The submission was made before a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh during the hearing of a case in which she and her brother J. Deepak were declared as legal heirs of their aunt who had died intestate on December 5, 2016. Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose had declared the siblings to be the legal heirs of all movable and immovable properties left behind by the former Chief Minister and directed the police to provide security to them since they were to inherit properties worth several crores of rupees. However, making it clear that the siblings would have to bear the cost of security, the judges said that any one of their aunt’s properties could be disposed of to pay the amount. They also directed the High Court Registry to continue to list the matter for reporting compliance of their orders. On Thursday, Special Government Pleader T.M. Pappaiah informed the court that the police had sought Rs. 20.83 lakh for providing round the clock security to the siblings for six months. However, there was no response from them. Advocate S. L. Sudarsanam, representing Mr. Deepak, said his client would respond to the police separately and urged the court to close the case. A similar request was made by Ms. Deepa’s counsel Sai Kumaran who said she would engage a private security service, if necessary. The judges closed the case after recording their submissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-will-engage-private-security-if-required-j-deepa-tells-hc/article33245295.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Small businessmen are more important than corporates: Kamal||Small businessmen are more important to the State and the country than corporate companies, actor-politician Kamal Haasan said here on Thursday. At a book launch at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, he said the book, written in Tamil, opened his eyes to what he had been talking about but not acting on. He appreciated the book Thoduvanam Thedi (In search of the horizon), jointly authored by A. Thillai Rajan, G. Arun Kumar and Saji Mathew, saying it reached out to those who aspire to but did not know how to move ahead. “These kinds of tools that you put in the hands of thinking minds become formidable weapons that will change the fate of our country. I truly believe that a small businessman is more important to India, especially Tamil Nadu. We are not averse to billion dollar companies. Everything starts small and it is very important to respect that small entrepreneur. The individual matters whether it is satyagraha or small business. It is important to help realise their dreams,” Mr. Haasan said. Socially-relevant project The authors, who are professors in the Department of Management Studies at the institute, undertook a programme in 2016 to train micro and grassroots entrepreneurs as part of socially-relevant projects of the institute. The book has been published by Vaanavil Publications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-businessmen-are-more-important-than-corporates-kamal/article33245301.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dravidian majors wary of ‘spiritual politics’||The concept of “spiritual politics”, as mentioned by actor Rajinikanth in his plan to launch a political party, does not seem to have excited either of the Dravidian majors in the State. Office-bearers of the DMK as well as the AIADMK, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the concept may not be of much relevance now, as atheism and rationalism are no longer the fulcrum of the State’s politics, despite the two parties still projecting themselves as followers of rationalist leader Periyar E.V. Ramasamy. Several members of the two parties subscribe to theism and the tag of “anti-god or even anti-Hindu god” cannot be attached to either of the organisations. Many leaders, at least while being in power, have taken part in religious events. In fact, in the DMK, which once had the image of being harsh on Hindu religious customs and practices, the party leadership has been increasingly careful, in the recent years, about not getting involved in any controversy concerning the Hindu religion. When it comes to the AIADMK, its founder M.G. Ramachandran and his successor Jayalalithaa have come to be seen as “believers”. However, K.S. Narendran, State BJP vice-president, has a different take. He contended that over the years, the people of the State have become frustrated with the “approach” of the DMK and the Dravidar Kazhagam, in treating matters of faith concerning Hinduism differently from those of other religions. Expressing hope that there will be takers for Mr. Rajinikanth’s “spiritual politics”, he said this could be gauged from the support that the BJP got five months ago, after it came down heavily on those accused of having provided a malicious interpretation of the Kanda Sashti Kavasam , a compilation of Tamil hymns in praise of Lord Murugan. M. Rajendran, former Vice-Chancellor of Tamil University, said it still remained to be seen whether Mr. Rajnikanth meant the concept to be one that transcends the barriers of religion, emphasising humanism and respect for all living creatures, which is what the Tamil society has always stood for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dravidian-majors-wary-of-spiritual-politics/article33244853.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nationality does not matter for participation in Margazhi competition||As many readers of The Hindu are aware by now, the last date for sending entries for The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition is December 12, 2020. Some readers emailed seeking clarifications on certain issues, and here are a few clarifications. One person wanted to know if the competition was open to people from outside the country. Yes, nationality or place of residence does not matter if they are willing to compete and meet the eligibility criteria. The video should also be of specified technical parameters to be accepted. Another question pertained to the length of the videos. They need to be under 5 minutes. One person checked if performances would be at The Hindu office. The answer is no. While last year performances were held at a studio at The Hindu office on Anna Salai, this year, in line with the precautions to be taken owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, there will be no live recordings at The Hindu ’s studio. The videos are to be recorded and sent by the participants and they would be uploaded online. A vidwan wanted to know if persons who had already performed in concerts could also send in their entries. Yes, they can if they satisfy the age and other criteria. The competition is open to musicians of up to 40 years of age in three age categories and open to both Carnatic and Hindustani classical vocalists, instrumentalists and percussionists. For details, go to https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/the-hindu-announces-margazhi-competition-for-young-indian-classical-musicians/article33231111.ece/amp/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nationality-does-not-matter-for-participation-in-margazhi-competition/article33245296.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNHB to build 570 flats for officials, judicial officers||After the special housing scheme for officers of the All India Services and others at Nerkundram, where 1,016 multi-storey apartments were built, the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) will build 570 more flats in Phase-II to accommodate State government officials and judicial officers. In a recent Government Order, the government accepted the proposal of the TNHB Managing Director and approved the construction of the 570 houses (228 HIG and 342 MIG flats) under the Own Your Housing Scheme on the site adjacent to Phase-1 at Nerkundram, a 17-acre land located about 1 km from the Koyambedu market. After certain issues cropped up, a couple of amendments were made to the present scheme. The condition that the allottees should not sell the houses for a minimum of five years from the date of allotment has been modified to a minimum of 10 years from the date of handing over of flats. While applicants who had already availed themselves of the benefit of allotment under the Government Discretionary Quota (GDQ) within the respective corporation limits were not considered for allotment under the existing guidelines, the government amended the norm by stating that beneficiaries (of the GDQ) under any scheme of the TNHB would not be eligible for the new scheme. The allotment process would be made online and government servant/spouse/dependent children of the applicant who have already availed themselves of house allotment by TNHB would not be considered. In Phase-II, the allotment would be made for State officials, including judicial department officers, the G.O. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnhb-to-build-570-flats-for-officials-judicial-officers/article33245306.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s Raja challenges CM to a debate on 2G case||DMK deputy general secretary A. Raja on Thursday challenged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to an open debate on who was corrupt and on the 2G spectrum allocation issue. “Let it be at Fort St. George. Let the Chief Minister bring his Advocate-General and Law Secretary. I am ready to face him in a debate on who was corrupt,” he said, reacting to Mr. Palaniswami’s charge that the DMK was “a corporate company and its corruption was equivalent to the State budget”.  ‘Not able to file appeal’ Mr. Raja said that in the 2G case, he did not seek even the benefit of the doubt in his favour, but subjected himself to the grilling by the CBI for 15 days. “From the days of Warren Hastings, no other public servant has subjected himself to such a legal battle. Finally, the court decided in favour of me. They are not even able to file the appeal against the verdict [of a special court],” he said at a press conference. ‘Not proved’ Mr. Raja said the allegation against the DMK over the execution of the Veeranam scheme was not proved. “The enemies of the DMK cite the Sarkaria Commission and say the party had indulged in scientific corruption. But in reality, there is no such reference in the Commission’s report,” he said. He said Mr. Palaniswami, who carried the photograph of Jayalalithaa, who was convicted in a disproportionate assets case, had no locus standi to criticise the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-raja-challenges-cm-to-a-debate-on-2g-case/article33245282.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public holiday declared in six districts today||The Tamil Nadu government has announced a public holiday on December 4 in Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi districts, as part of precautionary measures being taken in view of Cyclone Burevi, which has weakened into a deep depression. “The general public in these districts is advised not to step out for those other than essential activities,” an official release said. Government offices in these districts would function on one of the Saturdays in January, to compensate for the working day on December 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-holiday-declared-in-six-districts-today/article33244870.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Restructure scholarship scheme, says Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue suitable directions to the Union Ministry of Social Justice to restructure the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, with a 60:40 sharing pattern between the Centre and the States. In his letter to Mr. Modi, the Chief Minister referred to the concept of the application of committed liability in releasing the funds under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme to Tamil Nadu. He pointed out that earlier, the expenditure under the scheme at the end of each five-year plan period was taken as the committed liability of the State for the next period. “Although the practice of five-year planning was given up after the end of the Twelfth Five Year Plan (2012-2017), the earlier practice of re-fixing the State’s Committed Liability at the end of five years has been continued. As a result, the committed liability of Tamil Nadu, which was Rs. 353.55 crore in 2012-13, with effect from 2017-18, has risen to Rs. 1,526.46 crore,” Mr. Palaniswami underlined. As a result, although the State spent Rs. 1689.34 crore on the scheme in 2017-18, Rs. 1,910.19 crore in 2018-19 and Rs. 2,005.70 crore in 2019-20, it received only Rs. 162.88 crore, Rs. 383.73 crore and Rs. 479.24 crore respectively as the Central share for these years. In this year (2020-21), for a total expected expenditure of Rs. 2,110.90 crore, Tamil Nadu will be eligible to receive only Rs. 584.44 as the Central share. “This has placed an extremely high burden on the State government’s finances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restructure-scholarship-scheme-says-palaniswami/article33244880.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on blood disorders to be held||Kauvery Hospital will present a webinar on blood disorders, in association with The Hindu , on Sunday from 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. The webinar is part of The Hindu Wellness Series and is the third instalment. The expert panel will include Subbaiah R.M., consultant - haematology and bone marrow transplant; Vinod Gunasekaran, consultant - paediatric hematology, oncology and bone marrow transplant, both from Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi; and Dolly Daniel, professor, Department of Transfusion Medicine, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The webinar will be moderated by R. Sujatha, deputy editor - reporting, The Hindu Group. To register for free visit:https://bit.ly/ THKAUor scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-blood-disorders-to-be-held/article33244864.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raja challenges CM for open debate on corruption||DMK deputy general secretary A. Raja on Thursday challenged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take part in an open debate on who was corrupt and the 2G spectrum allocation issue.“Let it be in Fort St. George. Let the Chief Minister bring his Advocate General and Law Secretary. I am ready to face him in a debate on who was corrupt,” said Mr. Raja reacting to Mr. Palaniswami’s allegation that the DMK was “a corporate company and its corruption was on a par with State budget”. Mr. Raja said in the 2G case he did not seek even the benefit of doubt in his favour but subjected himself to the grilling of the CBI for 15 days. “From the days of Warren Hastings, no other public servant subjected himself to such a legal battle. Finally, the court decided in favour of me. They are not even able to file the appeal against the verdict,” he ctold a press conference. Mr. Raja said the allegation against the DMK on Veeranam scheme was not proved. “The enemies of the DMK cite the Sarkaria Commission and say that the party indulged in scientific corruption. But in reality, there is no such reference in the Commission’s report,” he insisted. Mr.Raja said Mr. Palaniswami, who carried the photo of Jayalalithaa, convicted in the case of amassing wealth disproportionate to her known source of income, had no locus standi to criticise the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raja-challenges-cm-for-open-debate-on-corruption/article33245541.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With help from parents, school to resume work||Following concerns raised by parents, a private school in Kolapakkam, which had suspended its academic operations citing financial difficulties, decided to resume academic activities from December 7. Lalaji Memorial Omega International School, in a mail sent on Monday to parents, said, “Due to lack of any significant inflow of money, the financial situation of the school has reached a breaking point and we are not in a position to continue with the academic operations of the school.” A parent from the school said earlier in November, they had been asked to give marginal academic support charges to the school voluntarily, since the school was facing a continuous shortage of funds. “We had already paid the first term fees and in November, we were informed about this voluntary donation but not about the payment of the second term fees. However, suddenly on Monday, we were taken by surprise when we received intimation about the suspension of online classes from December 1,” the parent said. Another parent said they had not received any communication from the school about the second term fees. Many parents also sent emails to the school expressing their concerns. In a subsequent circular issued on December 2, the school clarified to the parents that they would resume activities from December 7. The school management also acknowledged the support they had received from parents over the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-help-from-parents-school-to-resume-work/article33245298.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-year-old boy dies in accident near Tiruttani||A two-year-old boy died after a speeding bike hit his mother, who was holding him, while they were waiting for a bus in a village near Tiruttani on Tuesday. According to the police, Santosh, a daily wage earner lives with his wife Nishanthi, in Periya Kadambur colony in Tiruttani. The couple had a two-year-old-son, Kasishwaran. On Tuesday, Nishanthi was waiting at the village bus stop, with Kasishwaran. Ajith, 20, who was speeding on his bike lost control and hit Nishanthi. Kasishwaran fell from her arms and was badly hurt. He was rushed to the hospital, but succumbed to injures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-year-old-boy-dies-in-accident-near-tiruttani/article33245288.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK asks workers to remember Jaya’s death anniversary||The AIADMK on Thursday called upon its members to remember former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on her death anniversary, falling on Saturday, by lighting lamps in front of her portraits. In a statement, the party’s coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator-Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami wanted their colleagues to hold the ceremony on Saturday evening. In a separate statement, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said his party’s members, who were the “true followers” of the former Chief Minister, had the onerous responsibility and duty to stop the DMK from returning to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-asks-workers-to-remember-jayas-death-anniversary/article33245302.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC praises police for arresting and airlifting criminal from Assam||The Madras High Court on Thursday appreciated the Tamil Nadu police for having arrested a fugitive criminal, wanted in a 24-year-old murder case, from Assam despite several odds and airlifting him to Chennai on Wednesday. Justice P.N. Prakash commended the four-member police team, which flew to Assam to nab the absconding accused, who had jumped bail, for its ‘splendid work’ and ordered that the commendation be entered in their service records. The judge also suggested that Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy could address the government, recommending grant of a suitable award to the team members. He said now it was up to the judiciary to make sure that the accused faces trial. The issue dates back to July 6, 1996, when the then Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) constable Atul Chandra Das was arrested by the Railway Police for shooting his co-passenger Raja, following a wordy duel, in a moving train between Egathur and Kadambathur in Tiruvallur district. However, the accused obtained bail and absconded leaving the murder case to rot for the last 24 years. The issue came to light recently when Justice Prakash began hearing a petition filed by the CRPF seeking return of guns seized by the police in 1996. The judge immediately directed the DGP to depute a team to Assam. Acting swiftly, the DGP established contact with his counterpart in Assam and traced the whereabouts of Das, who was working as Security Officer in the University of Meghalaya. On coming to know that the Tamil Nadu police was tracking him, Das fled to Dhemaji district in Assam and went into hiding. However, Cyber Crime cell head constable L. Palani traced him down using the mobile phone tower signal and passed on the message to the team in Assam. Thereafter, Deputy Superintendent of Police S.K. Duraipandian was flown to Assam to coordinate the operation, and the team successfully nabbed the accused. Recording his deep sense of appreciation, the judge said the police and the CRPF had executed their task with aplomb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-praises-police-for-arresting-and-airlifting-criminal-from-assam/article33245305.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 of gang held for posing as CBI officers||The police arrested a five-member gang who posed as CBI officers on Wednesday, and tried to get Rs. 10 lakh from a businessman in Maduravoyal. According to the police, the gang entered the residence of one Rakesh in Krishna Nagar in Maduravoyal. They claimed they were from the CBI. They told him that there was an FIR against him in an idol-smuggling case and demanded Rs. 10 lakh to remove his name from it. Mr. Rakesh called his brother, who then alerted the Maduravoyal police. A team of police personnel arrived and nabbed five of them. “One of the imposters was Ramsubramani, who had brought the others,” a police officer said. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-of-gang-held-for-posing-as-cbi-officers/article33245280.ece
04 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I will engage private security, if needed, Deepa tells HC||Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa on Thursday told the Madras High Court that she was not interested in seeking police security and would instead prefer to engage the services of a private security agency, if required. The submission was made before a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh during the hearing of a case in which she and her brother J. Deepak were declared legal heirs of their aunt who had died intestate on December 5, 2016. Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose had declared the siblings the legal heirs of all movable and immovable properties left behind by the former CM and directed the police to provide security to them since they were to inherit properties worth several crores of rupees. However, making it clear that the siblings would have to bear the cost of security, the judges said any one of their aunt’s properties could be disposed of to pay the amount. They also directed the High Court Registry to continue to list the matter for reporting compliance of their orders. On Thursday, Special Government Pleader T.M. Pappaiah informed the court that the police had sought Rs. 20.83 lakh for providing round-the-clock security to the siblings for six months. However, there was no response from them. The judges closed the case after recording their submissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-will-engage-private-security-if-needed-deepa-tells-hc/article33245398.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Work on Avinashi Road flyover begins||The State Highways Department began the construction of a flyover on Avinashi Road after Minister for Municipal Administration SP Velumani launched the works at a function here on Thursday. An official of the Department said it had started excavation for construction of a pillar near PSG College. It would start works near Uppilipalayam later so that there were no traffic congestions. Explaining in detail the various infrastructure projects taken up in Coimbatore, the Minister said the flyover on Avinashi Road for 10.1 km at Rs. 1,621.30 crore would be the face of the city. Home Minister Amit Shah laid foundation for the project recently in the presence of the Chief Minister at a function in Chennai. Avinashi Road was the main road connecting Coimbatore with Erode, Salem and Tiruppur and had on either side of it several educational institutions, industries, and the Airport too. The four-lane flyover was designed to accommodate the vehicle growth for the next 30 years. Subways would be constructed at five locations between Goldwins and Uppilipalayam and smaller bridges would be widened at three locations. Metro rail project This would be the longest flyover in the State when it was opened for the public, the Minister said. Discussions were on for a metro rail project here and a project report would be prepared for it soon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-avinashi-road-flyover-begins/article33245312.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Court nod for voice analysis in Pollachi sexual assault case||The Mahila Court in Coimbatore on Thursday granted the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) permission to examine voice samples of the five accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case. The CBI’s move for the analysis is to ascertain whether the voices of men heard in some video clips of sexual assaults match with that of the accused. The CBI had submitted an application before the court seeking permission for the analysis about a month ago. However, the accused were not produced before the court twice when the plea was heard, said court sources. On Thursday, the five accused in the case, namely K. Thirunavukkarasu, N. Sabarirajan aka Rishwanth, N. Sathish T. Vasanthakumar and R. Manivannan, were brought to Coimbatore from Salem Central Prison and produced before the court for the hearing of the plea. With the court allowing the voice analysis, the five accused will be taken to the Forensic Science Laboratory of Tamil Nadu Police in Chennai that is equipped with facilities to collect and examine voice samples. The case pertains to alleged sexual assault by the accused on a 19-year-old girl near Pollachi on February 12, 2019. The investigation found that the accused also allegedly filmed the act and blackmailed the girl. After a case was registered based on the girl's complaint, a few videos of sexual assaults were leaked and the five men were accused of having involvement in them. The CBI expects that a voice analysis will help the investigating team to ascertain whether the five accused were involved in them. The CBI had filed a chargesheet against the five accused in the case in May 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-nod-for-voice-analysis-in-pollachi-sexual-assault-case/article33244916.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for car theft||The Singanallur police have arrested a 27-year-old man and are on the lookout for three others who stole the car of a woman at knife point near SIHS Colony here on November 27. The police said S. Sivakumar of Teachers Colony at Pandiappan Nagar in Tiruppur was arrested on Wednesday. As per the complaint lodged by S. Deepa (31) of Surya Nagar near Ondipudur, four men waylaid the car when she was driving through Mahatma Gandhi road at SIHS Colony around 7.30 p.m. on November 27. Her friend Priya was also inside the car. Deepa’s complaint said tSivakumar pressed a knife on her neck and took the Rs. 15,000 she was carrying. They forcibly ousted the women from the car after snatching their mobile phones and fled the place in the same vehicle which also had an LED monitor and two laptops. The police said Sivakumar was arrested and remanded on Wednesday. The three accomplices of Sivakumar were identified as Sherif, Srinivasan and Prabhakaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-car-theft/article33245316.ece
04 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault attempt||The Ramanathapuram police in the city on Wednesday arrested a 24-year-old man who allegedly attempted to assault a 34-year-old woman sexually in a public place on Tuesday. B. Kamaleswaran of Angannan Layout near Olympus was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The police said the accused attempted to assault the woman sexually when she was walking to her house after work through an isolated area near Ramanathapuram around 8.45 p.m. on Tuesday. Kamaleswaran escaped from the place after the woman raised an alarm and people came for her help. He was arrested on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault-attempt/article33244921.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ED raids are an attempt to divert attention from farmers’ protest, alleges PFI||Coimbatore district unit of the Popular Front of India (PFI) alleged that the Thursday’s raids by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in places linked to the organisation across the country were to divert the attention from the continuing mass protests by farmers. It also alleged that the BJP-led Central Government controlled by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh was also targeting PFI for its support to the farmers who are protesting against the newly implemented farm laws. Condemning the raids, members of the PFI led by Coimbatore district president M.I. Abdul Hakeem, secretaries A. Abdul Rahman and K. Mujeeb staged a protest in front of Ukkadam bus stand on Thursday afternoon. Mr. Rahman said PFI would not stop its activities in fear of actions such as the raids. “PFI will continue to maintain its stand against the policies of the BJP Government that are not people friendly,” he said. The police removed 72 protesters. They were released on bail in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ed-raids-are-an-attempt-to-divert-attention-from-farmers-protest-alleges-pfi/article33245315.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sexual assault attempt on 75-year-old woman at Gomangalam||The Gomangalam police in Coimbatore rural are on the lookout for a 32-year-old man who attempted to assault a 75-year-old woman sexually in a farm where she was working on Wednesday. The police have identified the accused as K. Velingiri (32) of a village near Kanjampatti at Pollachi. According to the police, the woman also hails from the same village and she has been doing daily wage works in farms near her house. Around 3 p.m., the accused went to the farm where the woman worked. As per the woman’s complaint, the accused pushed her down and tried to assault her sexually. She shouted for help and the accused fled the spot seeing other workers coming. The elderly woman was admitted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi. The police said the accused was booked in another case involving woman harassment earlier this year. A police officer said a special team was on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sexual-assault-attempt-on-75-year-old-woman-at-gomangalam/article33244917.ece
04 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online session||The Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International will conduct an online session every Friday to help people improve their communication skills. Those interested may join on Friday using Zoom platform with Zoom ID 896 0934 5892 and contact 95004 02317 via WhatsApp for the password.   The Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday conducted drills on handling mass protests and unexpected clashes between two groups. A mock demonstration was organised in Tiruppur North range, a mock blockade of the Collectorate in Tiruppur South range and a mock clash between two groups was organised in the Tiruppur Central range for the police personnel to train on dealing with similar real-life situations, a release said. Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan inspected the drills, held between 8.45 a.m. and 9.45 a.m.    Four children from Mahalingapuram near Pollachi who went missing on Wednesday evening were found at Ukkadam here. The Bazaar Street police found the children – two girls aged 13 and 11 and two boys aged eight – at Ukkadam late on Wednesday. The children told the police that they boarded a bus to Coimbatore for a fun ride. The children were handed over to the Mahalingapuram police who in turn took them back to their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-session/article33245314.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power||There will be no power supply in the following areas under Kallimadai and Thudiyalur sub-stations from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 4 : Kamaraj Road, Barathi Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Jothi Nagar, Ramanuja Nagar, NK Palayam, Krishnapuram, Singanallur, GV Residency, Uppilipalayam, Indranagar, Balan Nagar, Sarkarai Chettiar Nagar, NGR Nagar Hope College to Civil Aero, Varatharajapuram, Nandanagar, Housing Unit, part of Ondipudur, Masakalipalayam, Medical college road, K. Vadamadurai, Thudiyalur, Appanaikenpalayam, Aruna nagar, VSK Nagar, VKV Nagar, NGGO Colony, Palanigoundanpudur, Pannimadai, Dhaliyur, Madathur, Papanaikenpalayam, Kalayanur, Somayanur, KNG Pudur, and Venugopal Hospital area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power/article33245307.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBATORE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Protests in support of farmers continue||Farmers and members of various organisations continued their protests in Coimbatore and Tiruppur on Thursday against the farm laws and in support of the farmers protesting in New Delhi. Members of Communist Party of India members staged a protest in Coimbatore. A group of around 25 lawyers staged a demonstration on Thursday and around 30 members from Farmers’ Association (not affiliated to any party) and Yermunai Youth Wing staged a demonstration near Tiruppur Kumaran Memorial at Valipalayam. And, around 15 members of the Students’ Federation of India staged a demonstration in solidarity with the farmers. On Friday, members of the CPI and CPI(M) will stage a joint demonstration outside the Tiruppur Revenue Divisional Office against the farm laws. At a meeting of CPI and CPI (M) in Coimbatore, it was decided to continue with the protests in the district to express solidarity with those protesting in New Delhi. Protests will be held at Pollachi on December 5, at Annur on December 7, at Coimbatore and Mettupalayam on December 8 and at Sulur, Pappampattipirivu, and Sultanpet on December 9. The DMK will stage a demonstration here on December 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-in-support-of-farmers-continue/article33245313.ece
04 December 2020||COIMBTORE,TAMIL NADU||Hotels start hosting events, meetings as restrictions are relaxed||Hotels in the city, especially the large ones, are seeing a gradual increase in bookings for banquet halls and meeting rooms as the government has relaxed the lockdown restriction norms. The occupancy is mainly for social events, such as weddings and family events, say industry sources. The city’s hotels earlier had business meetings and conferences as one of the main business segments as travellers came from different parts of the country and abroad for these events here. With the spread of COVID-19 and with restrictions, business meetings are far and few. Many of these have gone to the virtual platform. The main demand now is for social gatherings, say the sources. The State government has permitted 50 % of the seating capacity of a hall or a maximum of 200 people to gather for events. JP Menon, Hotel Mangaer at Fairfield by Marriott, Coimbatore, says the hotel has started hosting small events. Social events are expected to pick up rapidly compared to business meetings, he says. According to Charles Fabian, Director-Operations at The Residency Towers, Coimbatore, the hotel has taken a lot of precautions such as mandatory use of masks and personal distancing. Weddings are happening with lesser number of guests. Only after the second or third week of this month will there be a clear picture of the COVID-19 spread situation and those on a wait and watch mode are expected to start coming out more after that, he says. Erine Louis, General Manager at Welcomhotel, says the hotel will host a play of David William’s ‘Brilliant Lies’ on December 4, staged by BlackBox Theatre Works and produced by Coimbatore Art & Theatrical Society. The hotel is looking at hosting events such as book reading, book launches, art evenings, and plays to give a platform to artists and also to guests who will otherwise not think of visiting a star hotel. There are more social gatherings now at the hotel. A lot of business meetings have gone online. However, guests are expected to travel for other purposes, such as medical treatments, adventure sports and pilgrimage. These guests will continue to come to hotels here, he says. “Hotels (in Coimbatore) will be more for holidays now,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-start-hosting-events-meetings-as-restrictions-are-relaxed/article33245310.ece
04 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Downpour disrupts normal life in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts||Heavy rain lashed various parts of Cuddalore and Villupuram districts on Thursday. The incessant rain threw normal life out of gear in the coastal districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in the next 24 hours. Cyclone Burevi, which has weakened into a deep depression, is expected to cross the south Tamil Nadu coast between Thursday night and the early hours of Friday. Cuddalore district received average rainfall of 49.94 mm in the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, inundating low-lying areas. While Kattumannarkovil recorded 74 mm of rainfall, Parangipettai and Cuddalore recorded 67 and 65.6 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours. Official sources said though there was no immediate threat of flooding, all departments had been put on alert in case of a rise in water levels in waterbodies across the district. Water level in Veeranam tank, the main source of drinking water to Chennai, was being maintained at 45.5 feet as against the full capacity of 47.5 feet. Inflow into the tank had gone up to 956 cusecs and hence, there was an equal discharge, a PWD official said. Villupuram district recorded an average of 38.33 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Marakkanam recorded 82 mm while Tindivanam and Villupuram recorded 63 and 43 mm rain respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-cuddalore/article33244884.ece
04 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||24 persons test positive in Cuddalore||As many as 24 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 24,285. The Health Department said that 62 persons were undergoing treatment as on Thursday while 22 persons had recovered and were discharged from various treatment centres. Villupuram district recorded 10 fresh cases, taking the total to 14,654. Kallakurichi district reported three fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 10,683.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-persons-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article33245467.ece
04 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water released from Odathurai Lake||With Odathurai Lake in Bhavani Taluk reaching its maximum storage capacity of 45.84 cubic feet, 200 cusecs was released through three surplus weirs here on Thursday. The lake, located in Odathurai Panchayat, has an ayacut area of 172.64 acre and receives water through seepages from the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. Also, during the rainy season, the lake receives copious water which helps in improving its storage level. Last year, under the Kudimaramathu scheme, the lake was desilted and the bunds were strengthened. Since water was released in the LBP canal for irrigation, the lake has been receiving water in the past one month and is nearing its maximum storage capacity. Due to rain in its catchment areas in the past three days, the lake received water and attained maximum storage on Thursday after which 200 cusecs was released into the canal. Officials of the Public Works Department said that if the inflow increases, discharge will also be increased and asked the public not to enter the lake for taking bath or washing clothes. Officials said that the tank plays a major role in environmental aspects as it never dries throughout the year and receives rain both through southwest and northeast monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surplus-water-released-from-odathurai-lake/article33244904.ece
04 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tumour removed from Russell’s viper||A six-foot male Russell’s viper that was found with tumour was successfully operated at the forest veterinary unit of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) at Karachikorai, near Bhavani Sagar, here on Wednesday. A farmer found the snake caught in a net at his land at Punjai Puliyampatti and sought the help of S. Surendaran of Nethaji Snake Trust in Coimbatore, who rescued it. He took the snake to the veterinary hospital for treatment. K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian of STR, found the snake with tumour near the abdominal and performed the surgery and removed it. Samples were taken and sent for a biopsy test to a private laboratory in Coimbatore. Condition better He said that the condition of the snake is better and after receiving the results, a decision on releasing it into the forest will be taken. The veterinarian, who had so far performed 60 surgeries on snakes, told The Hindu that reports will confirm whether it is a benign tumour or malignant tumour. A benign tumour will not grow, while malignant tumour will grow posing threat to the snake, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tumour-removed-from-russells-viper/article33244902.ece
04 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco releases advisory for public||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has asked the public to alert electricity board offices if they come across damaged electric poles or snapped power cables. Power cables In an advisory for the general public during the rainy season, it asked them not to touch snapped power cables and immediately alert Tangedco offices. It also asked the public not to dry clothes or touch electric lines passing through their terrace. Use of extension cord should be handled with care and caution and asked the public to use only electrical goods with ISI mark. In case of any fire accidents at home, the main switch should immediately be switched off, the advisory said. The release asked the public to disconnect all the electrical and electronic appliances during lightning and also asked them not to take shelter under trees during lightning. Contact details If people come across snapped wire or other electric related issues, they should contact, 94458-57205/6/7/8 or launch complaints at the WhatsApp helpline number 94458-51912 with photographs, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-releases-advisory-for-public/article33244898.ece
04 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Over 13,000 join basic literacy programme in Erode dist.||A total of 13,778 persons, who are mostly elderly and unable to read and write, were being imparted basic education, through 678 centres across the district. The Ministry of Education had in September this year launched a new literacy scheme, Padhna Likhna Abhiyan that aimed at total literacy in the country by 2030. The aim of the scheme is to impart functional literacy and numeracy to non-literate and non-numerate adults in rural and urban areas in the age group of 15 years and above. The target is mostly women and priority is given to districts with female literacy rate less than 60% as per the census. The scheme is implemented in the State as Karpoum Ezhuthuvoum and illiterates were identified and will be trained for a total of 120 hours to read and write. A total of 678 volunteers were appointed to handle classes for the candidates that are held at government middle schools and elementary schools at all the 14 blocks in the district. Chief Educational Officer R. Balamurali inaugurated the classes at the Corporation Middle School on S.K.C. Road in the presence of school headmistress K. Sumathi. A volunteer said that classes were held for two hours a day and the participants, who are mostly women and are working, were encouraged to attend the classes regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-13000-join-basic-literacy-programme-in-erode-dist/article33244901.ece
04 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Educational assistance handed over to 46 students||Educational assistance was handed over to 46 children whose parents were working in the textile industry at Nambiyur here. At a programme organised by Vizhuthugal Social Education and Development Trust, an NGO, at Moonampalli village, M. Subramaniam, chairman, Nambiyur Panchayat Union, distributed the assistance to the children who were pursuing studies in schools and colleges. M. Soundarrajan, Women Welfare Officer, Social Welfare Department, highlighted various schemes implemented by the government for the welfare of the women, particularly in villages. Other speakers gave an insight to the women protection schemes in the country and asked them to be aware of the schemes. K. Chandra, Programme Manager, Vizhuthugal, explained the projects executed by their NGO in various villages and how it improved the lives of women. V. Govindaraj, Legal Coordinator of the NGO, presented a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educational-assistance-handed-over-to-46-students/article33244897.ece
04 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||First-level checking of EVMs begins||District Collector V.Jayachandra Banu Reddy in presence of representatives of recognised political parties launched the first-level checking of electronic voting units here on Thursday. According to officials, 1,300 VVPAT machines and 560 control units that was brought recently to the district underwent first-level checks which was done by staff from Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-level-checking-of-evms-begins/article33244909.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vandiyur tank’s surplus water discharged into Vaigai||With the water storage in Vandiyur tank reaching its optimum level, the Public Works Department (PWD) is releasing 125 cusecs of water from the tank into Vaigai river. The surplus water from the tank is being discharged into the Vaigai for the first time after 2018, say PWD officials. M. Pavazhakannan, Executive Engineer, Periyar Main Canal, Melur Division, said the water level in the tank reached its maximum permissible level on December 1. Vandiyur tank, which is one of the largest tanks in the city, receives water from multiple chains of tanks. Though the tank has lost its original ayacut, the storage of water in the tank helps in recharging the groundwater table in nearby areas. D. Raghavan, president of Gomathipuram-Thendral Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, said there was a drastic improvement in the groundwater table in nearby areas in the past few years. “As a result, people spend less money in buying water from private tankers,” he said. However, the disposal of untreated sewage from residences into channels and waterbodies that drain into the Vandiyur tank is a major concern which needs to be addressed, said Mr. Raghavan. “The tank is an important biodiversity spot which attracts many birds,” he added.  An urban sprawl One of the largest tanks in the city, it receives water from multiple chains of tanks  Though it lost its original ayacut, the tank helps in recharging groundwater table in nearby areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vandiyur-tanks-surplus-water-discharged-into-vaigai/article33245389.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NHRC must be more independent: forum||Recollecting the tenure of National Human Rights Commission Chairperson Justice H.L. Dattu, who is demitting office, the All-India Network of NGOs and Individuals working with National and State Human Rights Institutions (AiNNI) thanked him for the services rendered. In a letter to Mr. Dattu, AiNNI, a national forum of individuals and organisations to monitor and strengthen the functioning of human rights institutions, its national secretary Henri Tiphagne said it was Mr. Dattu who initiated the system of Special Monitors in the Commission. This opened the door for ‘civil society actors’ to engage closely with the panel. But the process which was started, stands dormant and needs a proactive approach from the Commission, the AiNNI said. The members said they were taken aback when Mr. Dattu had stated publicly that the Commission was a ‘toothless tiger,’ which was of course true in some sense. One of its key functions was to review laws and the Commission chose not to review certain laws. Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), National Investigation Agency Act (NIA), Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were some of the laws which were not looked into, the members said. While the Commission intervened in cases of serious rights violation in Kashmir, post Article 370 abrogation and custodial torture in Bhopal jail, such interventions continue to lie in a state of limbo and victims continue to long for justice. “We expected the Commission to uphold and assert its powers in cases such as the killing of protestors in Thoothukudi, arrest of human rights defenders in Bhima Koregaon case, incarceration of protestors peacefully opposing CAA, and the plight of migrant workers. We re-assert that the NHRC belongs to the people and it always took the cause of victims of human rights violations. We always believe that it is the NHRC that serves as a model for other human rights institutions,” the AiNNI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhrc-must-be-more-independent-forum/article33245390.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled employees demand service regularisation||Members of Differently Abled Welfare Association petitioned the Collector here on Thursday, pressing for a charter of demands, including service regularisation of differently abled persons working in various government departments as consolidated, contract and daily wage workers. The petitioners, led by Association district president S. Boopathi, demanded employment opportunities for 63 differently abled sportspersons in the State. All deserving differently abled candidates must be considered for filling up vacancies in government departments based on the 4% reservation. Skill-based training centre for the differently abled must be set up in important districts. Free accommodation must be given to differently abled women, they said. They also demanded easy access for those with more than 40% disability to free three-wheelers, dedicated bank for them in every district, and an exclusive grievance redressal meeting chaired by Collector with the participation of District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and differently abled persons. A battery-operated vehicle must be operated to drop differently abled persons from the Collectorate to Anna bus stand and the new building at the Collectorate must have ramps and separate toilets for the differently abled, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-employees-demand-service-regularisation/article33245393.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||RTE Act seats: one-km radius norm comes in the way||Only 77% of seats earmarked under Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, in matriculation and nursery schools have been filled in Madurai district after the end of the second round of admission process, reveals data obtained from the School Education department. The RTE Act mandates private schools to set aside 25% of their entry-level seats for students from economically weaker sections of the society. While the first round of online application process was held between August 27 and September 25, the second round was held between October 12 and November 7. Eligible schools A source from the School Education department said 158 matriculation and 284 primary and nursery schools in the district were eligible to earmark seats under the RTE Act. A total of 5,737 seats were earmarked for RTE Act in these schools. Out of them, 4,457 seats had been filled at the end of the second round of admission process. In 117 matriculation and 98 nursery and primary schools, all the earmarked seats had been filled. Despite having completed two rounds of admission process, there were seats still left, said A. Veronica Mary, a child rights activist. The officials must make efforts to fill every seat, she said. The norm that stipulates that the student must reside within one-km radius of the school was a major impediment that led to most of the rejection of applications, said an Education department source. R. Charles, a volunteer who assisted parents in the online RTE application process, said if the one-km norm was removed, it would benefit so many students. “Now, only students in urban areas are able to get admission under the RTE Act. Those in rural areas are left out because there are hardly a few private schools within the one-km radius from their houses,” he said. The delay in starting admissions of RTE seats also contributed in filling lower number of seats, said K. Hakkim, an activist of People’s Awareness Trust. “Many private schools had unofficially started admissions for this year from June and hence many underprivileged parents borrowed money to admit their children in private schools. However, the admissions under the RTE Act started only in August-end,” he said. A third round? A School Education department official said there might be a third round of admissions for RTE seats in case there were many unfilled RTE seats in many districts of the State.  Still available Of the total 5,737 seats, only 4,457 seats have been filled  With no private schools in the neighbourhood, rural students are left out  Delay in admission process also led to lower number of intake||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rte-act-seats-one-km-radius-norm-comes-in-the-way/article33245395.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Encounter with former MLA stumps auto driver||An elderly man anxiously walking on a road with an old shoe in his hand, having lost the other pair, caught the eye of N.D. Pandi, an autorickshaw driver. The man looked familiar to Mr. Pandi. Taking a closer look, Mr. Pandi, 30, was shocked to find out that the man was none other than N. Nanmaran, a two-time former MLA from the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The driver made an immediate U-turn on Panagal Road here and stopped the auto. By then, Mr. Nanmaran had picked up the other shoe. It had fallen off his feet while he was travelling in another autorickshaw. The former MLA from the Madurai East Assembly constituency asked Mr. Pandi if he could drop him at Karuppayoorani. Mr. Nanmaran told him that he only had Rs. 20 and could not pay more. “I took him in my auto,” Mr. Pandi said. “Till he got down from my vehicle, he did not identify himself as a former MLA,” Mr. Pandi added. Impressed with his simplicity, the driver did not take the money offered to him. “I told him that I was proud to have been given an opportunity to help him. I asked him to keep the money for his return journey,” he said. The incident occurred on November 27. It came to light on Wednesday when Mr. Pandi shared a photo he had taken with Mr. Nanmaran on Facebook. The photo, with a small write-up of the incident, has gone viral on social media. “Ideologically, I am on the other side,” said Mr. Pandi, who is also an office-bearer with the youth wing of the Pasumpon Desiya Kazhagam. “But I liked him for his simplicity, honesty and humaneness.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encounter-with-former-mla-stumps-auto-driver/article33244879.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on blood disorders||Kauvery Hospital will present a webinar on blood disorders, in association with The Hindu , on Sunday from 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. The webinar is part of The Hindu Wellness Series and is the third instalment. The expert panel will include Subbaiah R.M., consultant - haematology and bone marrow transplant; Vinod Gunasekaran, consultant - paediatric hematology, oncology and bone marrow transplant, both from Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi; and Dolly Daniel, professor, Department of Transfusion Medicine, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The webinar will be moderated by R. Sujatha, deputy editor - reporting, The Hindu Group. To register for free visit:https://bit.ly/THKAUor scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-blood-disorders/article33244890.ece
04 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC transfers Saptur case to CB-CID||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has transferred the probe into the alleged Saptur youth custodial torture and subsequent death case to the CB-CID. The court made it clear that the direction to transfer the investigation in the case should not be deemed as casting aspersions on the rights and defence of police personnel. Justice G.R. Swaminathan, who earlier ordered re-post mortem examination in the case, laid down a series of guidelines to be followed in the conduct of post-mortems in cases involving custodial deaths. Every time a custodial death occurred, the legitimacy of the State suffered a dent. It can be set right only by ensuring transparent investigation, the judge said. “A dead person is equally entitled to justice. I would call it posthumous justice. Whenever someone suffers an unnatural death, the circumstances that led to it will have to be unearthed. Otherwise, there will be no closure,” the judge observed and added that the foundations of any democratic government rested on popular acceptance. CB-CID gets more time Although the State primarily functions through its coercive apparatus, its actions must be perceived as proper by the people. What the government does must inspire the confidence of the people, he said. The court directed the CB-CID to complete the investigation in four months and submit a final report before the jurisdictional court concerned. In the set of directions, the court said the judicial magistrate conducting the inquiry under Section 176(1)(A) Cr.P.C. should ensure that the family of the deceased or its representatives were allowed to see the body both front and back and allowed to take video and photos. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Santhosh, brother of Ramesh, 20, who died allegedly due to custodial torture. Ramesh was found hanging from a tree. It is said that their elder brother Idhayakani had eloped with a relative, and her family filed a complaint with the Saptur police. The petitioner alleged that they were subjected to torture by the police on a regular basis in the name of inquiry and sought a re-post mortem examination and a CB-CID probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-transfers-saptur-case-to-cb-cid/article33245291.ece
04 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Track patrolling intensified||Southern Railway has partially cancelled four trains between Madurai and Thoothukudi to avoid rail movement on Friday as a precautionary measure ahead of Cyclone Burevi, Train No.02693 Chennai Egmore - Thoothukudi Special and Train No.06236 Mysuru – Thoothukudi Special departing on Thursday would be short terminated in Madurai on Friday morning In the return direction, Train No.02694 Thoothukudi - Chennai Egmore Special and Train No.06235 Thoothukudi – Mysuru Special would depart from Madurai on Friday. A railway official said that the weather condition was being closely monitored and more regulation in train services would be done wherever it was warranted. Another official said over 1,500 trees along the railway track in the division were pruned in the last two months to prevent them from falling on the track or overhead cables. “This exercise has given us a good sense of relief as it minimises damage to tracks and overhead cable” he said. A monsoon special rake with sand bags and other materials had been kept ready to attend to emergency situation. Senior officials were camping at different locations for closer monitoring. Monsoon track patrolling had been intensified. “After the landfall, trolley inspection or engine inspection will be conducted before certifying the tracks for allowing passenger trains,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/track-patrolling-intensified/article33244885.ece
04 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry experiences heavy rain||Barely a week after seeing off Cyclone Nivar, the city experienced heavy rain that began overnight and persisted through Thursday, leaving several low-lying areas inundated and disrupting traffic on the thoroughfares. The Directorate of School Education has declared a holiday on Friday for all government and private schools in Puducherry. “Waterlogging was reported from seven areas across the city and motor pumps were used to bale out the water,” S. Sivakumar, Commissioner, Puducherry Municipality, said. Intense inundation was reported in Jothinagar, Maramalai Nagar 7th Cross, Sudhanagar on Thanthaperiar Street, Aravindhar Nagar on Siththar Street, Subhash Street in Nainarmandapam, Ganesh Nagar, Muthialpet and Kulathurthope. Municipality staff had been deployed in the field since last night. Some waterlogged areas in the city included Busy Street, La Bourdonnais Street and Pavalan Nagar in Boomianpet. However, the worst affected area was Sudhanagar, where three streets got submerged in water. Though the rain weakened towards night, the municipality asked staff to be alert for complaints of waterlogging from residents if the rain revives, the Commissioner said. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has asked officials to frame a SOP for incorporating all the good practices followed in coping with Cyclone Nivar. The District Collector will lead the brainstorming with PWD, Municipality and other key departments to review and track flood-causing areas, both traditional and emerging ones. Ms. Bedi has sought an expeditious finalisation of the SOP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-experiences-heavy-rain/article33245469.ece
04 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure fund rolled out||The Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has rolled out a Rs. 48 crore infrastructure fund for investment in viable projects in post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is a Central sector scheme of the Ministry of Agriculture to provide medium to long-term debt financing for viable projects. The Department of Agriculture in Puducherry is the nodal department for implementing the scheme in the Union Territory. The maximum loan tenure will be seven years. The other attraction of the scheme is the 3% interest subvention per year on loans up to Rs. 2 crore. There is also credit guarantee coverage of up to Rs. 2 crore. The objective is to help create improved marketing infrastructure that would allow farmers to sell directly to a larger base of consumers and increase value realisation and overall income. With investments in logistics infrastructure, farmers will be able to sell in the market with reduced post-harvest losses and a smaller number of intermediaries. This further will make farmers independent and improve access to the market while access to a modern packaging and cold storage system will allow the farmers to decide when to sell in the market at a better profit. Moreover, building community farming assets for improved productivity and optimisation of inputs will result in substantial savings to farmers. Those eligible to avail loans under the scheme are farmers, Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS), Marketing Cooperative Societies, Farmer Producer Organisations, Self Help Groups, Joint Liability Groups, Multipurpose Cooperative Societies, agri-entrepreneurs, start-ups, Central/State agencies and local body-sponsored Public-Private -Partnership ventures. The scheme covers post-harvest management projects like supply chain services including e-marketing platforms, warehouses, silos, packing houses, assaying units, sorting and grading units, cold chain, logistics, primary processing centres or ripening chambers. It also is aimed at projects for building community farming assets such as organic input production, bio stimulant production units, infrastructure for smart and precision agriculture and supply chain network for clusters of crops, including export clusters. Further details are available on agriinfra.dac.gov.in and assistance with the office of the Additional Director of Agriculture in Thattanchavady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infrastructure-fund-rolled-out/article33245475.ece
04 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One death, 42 new cases reported in Union Territory||One COVID-19 death was reported in Puducherry on Thursday, raising the toll to 613 while 42 new cases were added to the tally in the last 24 hours. The death of a 45-year-old woman from Villianur at Jipmer took the toll in the capital alone to 502. The toll in Karaikal is 59, Yanam 44 and Mahe eight. The new cases were detected during the testing of 2,820 samples. The most number of new cases was in Mahe (23) while Puducherry saw 15 new infections and Karaikal four. No new cases were reported in Yanam. The test positivity rate was 1.48%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.15%. After 27 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and two cases were transferred to the Tamil Nadu tally, the number of active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 444. Of this, 165 were in hospital and 279 under home isolation. The caseload was 37,119 infected persons so far, while the number of patients treated and discharged was 36,062. Team sent Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the situation in Mahe was being monitored closely. Testing, institutional admission and enforcement would be strictly followed in the enclave. A team of doctors is being sent to Mahe to strengthen medical services. The COVID war room would also create a group of wellness centres and make them part of COVID management reviews. On some PHCs reporting a rise in dog-bite cases, Ms. Bedi asked the authorities concerned to ensure adequate stocks of anti-rabies vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-42-new-cases-reported-in-union-territory/article33245473.ece
04 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tree gets uprooted||A big tree got uprooted on S. V. Patel Salai on Wednesday night, disrupting traffic movement on the stretch in the morning. The incident happened around 9.30 p.m., and it took a team from the Fire and Rescue Services Department around 45 minutes to completely remove the tree, said a fire services personnel. “Usually people are in the vicinity during the time. Since it was raining, the place was fortunately deserted. Otherwise, the incident would have turned tragic,” he said. Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, who represents the constituency, blamed the Forest Department for the incident. “I have written several letters to the Department, asking them to trim branches of old trees. At least now they should wake up and regularly carry out the pruning exercise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tree-gets-uprooted/article33245471.ece
04 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 accommodated at 20 temporary relief centres in Pudukottai district||Over 3,000 persons have been accommodated at 20 temporary relief centres in Aranthangi sub division of the district as a precautionary measure in the wake of heavy rain. People from 25 vulnerable locations in coastal areas and those staying in low-lying areas have been accommodated at the centres where food arrangements have been made. All COVID-19 protocols are being followed and the inmates subjected to thermal scanning. Masks have been provided and social distancing has been ensured, Aranthangi Sub Collector Anand Mohan said. Some of the relief centres are at Kattumavadi, Kottaipattinam, Mimisal and R. Pudhupattinam. In Thanjvaur, inundation reported in Umaiyalpuram near Kabisthalam has been cleared. Revenue officials received an alert from Umaiyalpuram North hamlet on Thursday that some houses have been inundated in the area. Immediately, a team of officials visited the affected area and made arrangements to drain the water through a nearby canal using an earthmoving vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-accommodated-at-20-temporary-relief-centres-in-pudukottai-district/article33244866.ece
04 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||New laws will protect farmers: CM||The laws passed by the Centre to deregulate the agriculture sector will protect farmers from losses they suffer because of low prices for their produce, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Thursday. A similar law was enacted by the Tamil Nadu government in 2019 itself, he said. Responding to a question on the farm protests in New Delhi, Mr. Palaniswami said, “When there is more production, the prices of the produce will come down, and the new laws will protect farmers as contractors will have to pay the prices as per the agreement. Farmers will not get a low price. What is wrong in it? No farmer is compelled to sign the contract. It is their choice.” The Chief Minister said the Centre had only implemented a law which was passed by the State government in 2019. “The State government is ready to make amends if there are shortcomings in the law,” he said. He asked farmers’ organisations for their views on the law and they responded that they were for it, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said the new law states that the earlier law would come into force in times of war, famine or drought. “Hence, there will be no room for hoarding. Farmers will only gain profits through the new law,” he said. “In Punjab and Haryana, farmers can sell their produce only through agents. Agents have to be paid a 2% commission, 3% tax has to be paid to the local administration and 3% has to be paid to its society. To sell a sack of paddy, Rs. 80 has to be paid in taxes. In Tamil Nadu, if traders are selling through a market committee, only 1% in tax is collected. As per the new law, taxes cannot be collected if the produce is sold outside markets. Isn’t this good? Also, farmers can sell their produce across their country,” he said. Asked about the protest by the PMK demanding reservation for the Vanniyars, though the party is part of the ruling coalition, the Chief Minister said a party’s policy and electoral alliance were different. “This is a democratic country and everyone has the right to put forward his demands. We feel that it will be right if reservation is proportionate to the population of a community. Steps have been taken in this regard,” he said. Reacting to the corruption charges levelled by Opposition leader M.K. Stalin, Mr. Palaniswami, referring to the 2G spectrum allocation case, said the DMK had looted funds to the tune of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-laws-will-protect-farmers-cm/article33244874.ece
04 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Excess payment made in road project during DMK regime: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami alleged here on Thursday that in the implementation of Phase-1 of Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project, which was being done with loans from World Bank, overpayments up to 72%, 68% and 36% in three tenders were made during the DMK regime. The Chief Minister said he had collected the details and these would be produced in court. In the construction of the new Secretariat building during the DMK regime, a payment of Rs. 410 crore was made while the estimate was Rs. 230 crore. The Chief Minister held discussions with district administration officials on the COVID-19 situation in the district.  COVID spread reduced in Salem He said, “The disease spread has reduced in Salem. However, the figures are fluctuating at four or five places.” The district administration and the Health Department had been advised to take necessary measures to bring down the cases. He said 26 students from Salem had benefited from the 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excess-payment-made-in-road-project-during-dmk-regime-cm/article33244908.ece
04 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Private school teachers seek relief||Members of the Tamil Nadu All Private Schools Teachers’ Association petitioned Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Thursday requesting the State government to take necessary measures to provide relief for private school teachers. The petitioners said that the teachers at private schools suffered severely during the lockdown. They said that many private school teachers lost their jobs during the lockdown. They said that many teachers are not able to meet daily needs as they haven't received complete salaries during the lockdown period. Job permanency The petitioners demanded that private school teachers should be provided with monthly cash relief and ensured job permanency. They also demanded that loans availed by the teachers should be waived off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-school-teachers-seek-relief/article33244912.ece
04 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Precautionary measures similar to Nivar taken for Burevi also: Minister||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani said that all precautionary measures similar to Nivar cyclone has been taken for Burevi also. Talking to presspersons, Mr.Thangamani said, “when the cyclone passes, considering the speed of the wind, power supply would be cut off considering safety of the public and it would be restored if there are no damages.” He added that the loss to electricity department due to Nivar cyclone, was approximately Rs. 64 crore and its still being assessed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precautionary-measures-similar-to-nivar-taken-for-burevi-also-minister/article33244911.ece
04 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Welcome for some, worrisome for others in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur||Cyclone Burevi-induced rain lashing several parts of Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts incessantly since Wednesday evening has drawn mixed reaction from farmers. Farmers who took up samba cultivation at the right season have welcomed the showers, while the heavy precipitation is said to be causing worries to those went in for thaladi or early samba . The samba / thaladi crop at Surakottai, Mela Uloor, Azhivaikkal, Thennamanadu and in some parts of Orathanadu and Pattukottai has been affected due to the heavy rainfall. “Well-grown crop with panicles have fallen to the ground due to incessant heavy rain,” said Sundar of Mela Uloor. S. Rajendran of Kannakudi Kizhaiyur near Orathanadu, however, says the precipitation due to te cyclonic storm system is a welcome development since it will help maintain moisture in the agriculture fields and the runoff will lead to recharge of groundwater table. Most of the ayacuts in Grand Anicut Canal system depended both on surface and groundwater table irrigation. Farmers in Thirukattupalli and part of Budalur blocks also feel the downpour will in no way affect the standing or upcoming crops in their region. “Our region is tableland with proper drain channels and, hence, the chances of inundation of crop in our region is remote,” says S.Sundaram of Maharapuram. In Tiruvarur, the heavy downpour for the past two days appears to have not made any adverse impact on the standing crop as the drain channels from fields have been cleared of obstacles and the water flow in the main river system has been regulated by the Public Works Department anticipating heavy downpour, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welcome-for-some-worrisome-for-others-in-thanjavur-tiruvarur/article33244858.ece
04 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for playing online rummy||The Kumbakonam East police have arrested a 36-year-old person of Moopakovil Babukulam area near Kumbakonam for allegedly playing rummy through online. According to sources, the cybercrime police passed on a message that a person holding a smartphone at Moopakovil area in Kumbakonam East Police Station limits was playing rummy through online. Subsequently, a team led by Sub-inspector Veeramani went to Moopakovil. Enquiry On interrogation, the police team came to know that the said person used to play rummy through a mobile application. The person was arrested on Thursday and remanded to judicial custody, the police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-playing-online-rummy/article33245531.ece
04 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Deputy CM lauds Theni for effective COVID-19 management||Appreciating the district administration, the doctors and para-medical teams for their sustained efforts in containing COVID-19 over the last eight months, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said that the people would be safe in the hands of the officials and the State government when Cyclone Burevi crosses the southern districts in the early hours of Friday. He was presiding over a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in the district and also to take stock of the arrangements made ahead of Cyclone Burevi. District Collector M. Pallavi Baldev explained the measures taken in view of the Cyclone Burevi during the meeting. As many as 43 locations have been identified as vulnerable to floods. Hence, arrangements have been made to safely evacuate the residents in these pockets to relief centres. Monitoring Officer A. Karthik, MLA S. T. K. Jakkayan and senior officials participated in the meeting. Several teams of officials from multi departments have been closely monitoring the weather forecast. The public, who may require any assistance, can call 1077 or 04546-261093, the Collector said and added that out of 135 tanks in the district, 29 were reported full. The surplus water was being let out in the rivers under the supervision of the PWD engineers. The highway officials in coordination with the forest and police were on high alert and monitoring the ghat sections in Cumbum Mettu and Bodi Mettu areas. Since there was continuous rainfall, the officials have been instructed to be ready to act on any eventualities such as landslides. New buildings inspected The Deputy Chief Minister inspected the construction of a new building at Rs. 89 crore for the government law college at Thappakundu, Amma Thirumana Mandapam at Buthenthrapuram at Rs. 12 crore and animal husbandry college and research centre at Thadiseri at Rs. 82 crore. The officials said that the works were progressing as per schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deputy-cm-lauds-theni-for-effective-covid-19-management/article33244892.ece
04 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||490 relief camps are ready in five districts, says Minister||Having established 490 relief camps in five districts that fall on the path of Cyclone Burevi, the State Government has made arrangements for accommodating over 1.92 lakh relocated people in these camps, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management R. B. Udhayakumar said. On Thursday, the Minister visited Thoothukudi, one of the five districts on the predicted path of Cyclone Burevi and had discussions on the arrangements made with the officials. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Udhayakumar said 490 relief centres were ready in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts to accommodate 1.92 lakh evacuees from vulnerable areas. Twenty of these camps had been created in Thoothukudi Corporation area and 150 persons evacuated from vulnerable areas had been moved to two of these camps. Of the 7,505 irrigation tanks in the southern districts, only 985 (13%) had reached their maximum storage level and all the irrigation tanks and the dams were being monitored constantly round the clock for influx and discharge of water. Fishermen who had ventured into the sea in mechanised and country boats had returned to the shores and the fishermen involved in multi-day deep sea fishing, who were fishing beyond Lakshadweep, had been reached through the Indian Coast Guard. In Ramanathapuram alone, 1,200 mechanised boats had returned to their bases. The Minister appealed to the public not to go near waterbodies and to the beach until normalcy returns. Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju said the 36 low-lying areas in Thoothukudi district have been brought under constant monitoring. Mr. Udhayakumar also handed over keys of three new ambulances that have been stationed at Kayalpattinam Government Hospital and Eppothumventraan and Thenthiruppaerai primary health centres. Meanwhile, people living close to Uppar Odai stream at Muthiahpuram near here were evacuated and moved to a relief camp. The Marine Police team that intensified its patrolling along the beaches appealed to the people not to go to the sea in the wake of the cyclone. Monitoring Officer of the district, Kumar Jayanth, also had comprehensive discussion with Collector K. Senthil Raj, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Special Monitoring Officer (Police) M.C. Sarangan and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar on the preparations that have been put in place. In the evening, Mr. Udaya Kumar held a similar meeting with the Monitoring Officer of Tirunelveli, M. Karunakaran, Collector V. Vishnu, Commissioner of Police Deepak M. Damor, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and various department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/490-relief-camps-ready-in-five-districts/article33244894.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Burevi-induced torrential rain lashes central region||The heavy to moderate rain that lashed several parts of the central region claimed the lives of a young girl in Perambalur district and a 71-year-old woman in Ariyalur district on Thursday. Seven-year-old V. Yosana was asleep with her parents in a tiled house at Pasumbalur village in Perambalur, when a portion of the mud wall, apparently weakened due to the rain, fell over her causing her death on the spot, said police. The girl’s father, Venkatesan, is a daily wage labourer. The body was sent to Perambalur Government Hospital for postmortem. V. Kalathur police are investigating. The district recorded an average of 37 mm of rainfall with Agaramsigur recording the maximum of 64 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period till 6 a.m.on Thursday. Officials set up seven relief camps at Alathur and 19 members of 11 families were accommodated in them. In Ariyalur district, Sivapakkiam, wife of Ponnan of Arungal, near here, was electrocuted when she came into contact with a live wire lying in front of her house. She died on the spot. Her body was later removed to government hospital for post mortem. She was the first rain victim in the district. Eight huts were also reported to have been damaged. Collector D. Rathna said low-lying areas were being closely monitored. Instructions had been given to revenue officials to shift residents of Mela Ramanallur and Thideerkuppam to a safer location as a precautionary measure. Thirumanur recorded 58 mm and Sendurai 50 mm within 12 hours from 6 am to 6 pm on Thursday, Ariyalur and Jayankondam registered 26 mm and 8 mm respectively in the district. Several parts of the delta region, especially Nagapattinam, Mayiladathurai and Tiruvarur districts, witnessed heavy rainfall. Vedaranyam recorded the maximum rainfall of 20 cm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday. Fishermen abstained from venturing into the rough sea. Talaignayar (15 cm), Nagapattinam (14 cm), Mayiladuthurai (12 cm), Sirkazhi (10 cm), Manalemdu and Kollidam (7 cm each) and Tharangampadi (5.5 cm) also received heavy rain. Neighbouring Karaikal in Puducherry Union Territory recorded 16 cm of rainfall during the same period. Though there was no report of any major damage to the standing paddy crop in the delta, the incessant rain caused some worry for those who had gone for thaladi or early samba crop in Thanjavur district. A section of them acknowledged that the timely action of the Public Works Department to suspend water release in rivers and canals in the delta ahead of the rain helped prevent major damage. “We have to thank the Public Works Department for good water management. There is water-logging is some fields in low-lying areas in the district, but the water will drain if there is a brief let-up. We are relatively safe as long there is no heavy flow in rivers and canals from Karur, Namakkal and Tiruchi districts,” said Cauvery S. Dhanapalan, general secretary, Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Nagapattinam. In Tiruvarur district, Thiruthuraipoondi recorded the maximum rainfall of 13 cm during the same period. Kodavasal (10 cm) Tiruvarur (9 cm), Nannilam and Valangiman (8 cm), Mannargudi (7 cm) and Needamangalam (6.5 cm) received heavy rainfall in the old Cauvery Delta irrigation region bringing cheer to farmers who have taken up samba/thaladi cultivation on a full scale this season. Manjalaru recorded the maximum rainfall of 98 mm in Thanjavur followed by Pattukottai (86 mm), Thiruvidaimaruthur (80.40 mm) and Adiramapattinam (77 mm). Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Papanasam and Orathanadu recorded above 50 mm of rainfall. Coastal areas in Pudukottai such as Meemisal and Manamelkudi (56 mm each) also received heavy rainfall. Most other parts of the district too received good rainfall. Tiruchi, Karur and Ariyalur districts also received widespread rainfall. Overcast conditions prevailed in Tiruchi city on Thursday with steady showers right from morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyclone-burevi-induced-torrential-rain-lashes-central-region/article33244862.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||127 new cases in central region||The central districts on Thursday recorded a slight spike in fresh COVID-19 cases with 127 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Two deaths, one each from Karur and Tiruvarur, were also reported. A 74-year-old man from Karur with a history of coronary artery disease and diabetes, and a 40-year-old man who had been suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome from Tiruvarur succumbed to the infection according to the daily bulletin released by the state Health Department. Perambalur district reported no fresh cases on Thursday. Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of cases in the central region on Thursday. A slight spike in cases was reported with 32 fresh cases. Among the 32 patients who tested positive were primary contacts of those who tested positive earlier, and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). Meanwhile, 21 patients were discharged from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Thursday after recovering from the viral infection. In Tiruchi, 27 fresh cases were reported, many of who were isolated cases. A total of 13 patients were discharged from Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Meanwhile, a total of 182 active cases remained, while 78 patients were positive asymptomatic patients in home isolation. Nagapattinam reported 22 new COVID-19 cases while Tiruvarur reported 19. Pudukottai and Karur districts reported a sharp drop while reporting 19 and 12 patients respectively. Patients in the districts were local contacts with no contact or travel history or detected through fever camps or with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Karur, the 12 patients were residents of Sellipalayam, Velayudhampalayam and Puliyur, among other localities. In Ariyalur, five patients tested positive. Of them, two hailed from Thirumanur block, while one each hailed from Ariyalur, Sendurai and Jayankondam blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-fresh-cases-in-central-districts/article33244883.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body readies for action||The Tiruchi Corporation is gearing up to handle the situation as heavy rainfall lashed the city on Thursday. The civic body has designated 10 officers on special duty in each zone, Srirangam, K. Abishekapuram, Golden Rock and Ariyamangalam, to monitor the areas and rush if a street needs to be cleared, or if a clogged stormwater drain causes inundation, or any such emergencies, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner told The Hindu . The civic body has on standby 12 motors, lorries, two earth movers, power saws and other necessary equipment. “Despite rain throughout the day, we have not had any serious complaints so far,” he said. The authorities have begun a drive to clean up nearly 43 km of stormwater drains ahead of the monsoon. A total of 10,000 kg of bleaching powder and lime powder are also ready, while nearly 2,000 sandbags have been arranged for. Schools have been kept ready to accomodate residents of low-lying. Residents need not worry as the civic body is prepared to handle the rain. Residents may contact their respective zonal offices in case of emergency situations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-readies-for-action/article33244856.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini fans celebrate in delta districts||Fans of Rajinikanth erupted into celebrations in different parts of the central region on Wednesday after he announced his decision to launch a political party in January. Shortly after the announcement, a group of fans and admirers of the actor visited Vazhividu Velmurugan Temple here and celebrated his decision by bursting crackers and distributing sweets to passers-by. Members of Rajini Makkal Mandram exchanged pleasantries with each other. Some of them visited the Central Bus Stand and offered sweets as a mark of welcoming the much-awaited decision by their leader They also distributed sweets to the shopkeepers. His fans, assembled at a short notice in spite of heavy rain, waved flags of Rajini Makkal Mandram and raised slogans hailing his decision. “It is a historic announcement that will change the future of the State. We were waiting for it for so long. It has become a reality now,” said M. Kaleel, district secretary, Rajini Makkal Mandram. He said Rajini Makkal Mandrams had been working for the welfare of the people for so long. The announcement of his leader would be a big boost to the movement. P. Kumar, a diehard fan of Rajinikanth since 1980, who distributed sweets to people in Srirangam, said it was a real Deepavali for the fans. The actor’s entry into politics would herald a new era in the State. A large number of Rajinikanth fans led by Muruga Pandian, district organiser, distributed sweets and burst crackers near New Bus Stand in Pudukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajini-fans-celebrate-in-delta-districts/article33245533.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ayyakannu, 36 others held at railway station||President of the Desiya Thennindhiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, P. Ayyakannu, and 36 of his supporters were arrested on Thursday when they attempted to travel to New Delhi by train to take part in thefarmers’ protestagainst the three new farm laws. Police sources said the Sangam members, led by Mr. Ayyakannu, came to the Tiruchi railway junction in the morning to board Chennai-bound Vaigai Express from here when they were detained by the police. The Sangam members raised slogans against the police action and the farm laws at the station entrance before being arrested and taken to a private hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ayyakannu-36-others-held-at-railway-station/article33244854.ece
04 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Weather predictions go for a toss in southern districts||Even though weather forecasts had predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the southern districts since Wednesday night, all predictions went wrong as none of the four southern districts recorded significant precipitation on Thursday. As District Collectors of Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts had been advised to take precautionary measures in the wake of Cyclone Burevi and consequent rainfall, every possible arrangement is being taken here to face the nature’ fury. Monitoring Officer for the district M. Karunakaran and District Collector V. Vishnu, who inspected irrigation channels of Tamirabharani in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai on Thursday directed the Public Works Department to remove the waste and weeds clogging the channel. As some areas in Manakaavalanpillai Nagar in Palayamkottai experienced water stagnation after the recent rains, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan visited the area on Thursday to monitor the cleaning of the drainage channels in this densely populated area. “While Papanasam dam had 80% of water against its maximum capacity, Manimuthar dam had less than 65% of water. So we can manage the situation even if the influx increases sharply. However, we’ve posted in the dams special teams to monitor the rainfall and consequent influx of water round-the-clock,” a PWD official here said. At the same time, appropriate instructions have been given to monitoring teams posted in Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karuppanadhi, Gundar and Adavinainar Dams in Tenkasi district as all these reservoirs are just a few feet away from attaining the maximum storage level. As these dams, all situated along the Western Ghats, are expected to get huge influx of water in case of downpour, the water will be discharged appropriately. However, barring Thoothukudi district that experienced overnight mild drizzle, no other southern district recorded any considerable rainfall on Thursday. In Kanniyakumari, the sea was relatively calm on Thursday and no rain was reported in any part of the district throughout the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weather-predictions-go-for-a-toss-in-southern-districts/article33245539.ece
04 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi condemns BJP leader’s comments on farmer protests||Thoothukudi MP and DMK women’s wing leader Kanimozhi on Wednesday condemned BJP State president L. Murugan who recently alleged that the farmer protests in and around Delhi were instigated by political parties. She visited Uthukuli in Tiruppur district on Wednesday evening which comes under the Perundurai Assembly constituency, as part of the ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) campaign. In a brief interaction with mediapersons, she alleged that Mr. Murugan’s comments were an insult to farmers. “They [the farmers] are protesting for their livelihoods. Despite the cold weather, they have come out in the open to protest,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. “Enslave farmers” Earlier while addressing the DMK cadre in Uthukuli, she alleged that the three farm laws will “enslave the farmers to corporates” and accused Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of having supported these laws. Ms. Kanimozhi further alleged that the State government was not willing to hold talks with the farmers from the region regarding the construction of transmission towers and Irugur – Devangonthi Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) by Bharat Petroleum on agricultural land. “The time has come to send home the government that has betrayed [the farmers],” she said in her speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-condemns-bjp-leaders-comments-on-farmers-protests/article33244915.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Man, cow electrocuted||Saghayaraj, 26, of Vilakkudi near Thiruthuraipoondi, an employee of a hotel at Thiruthuraipoondi, was electrocuted at his workplace on Thursday. The incident took place in the morning when the victim switched on a wet grinding machine at the hotel. He died on the spot. Aa cow was electrocuted at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. The incident took place on Mothilal Street where the cow, owned by Raj of Fathimapuram, stepped on a live electric cable that had snapped and fallen on the road due to heavy rain and wind. Two huts at Anna Nagar and Seruvaviduthi near Peravurani were damaged in the heavy rain that lashed the area on Thursday. No casualty was reported in the incidents, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-cow-electrocuted/article33244859.ece
04 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Stay indoors during rain, Collector tells residents||The Nilgiris district Collector J. Innocent Divya said though the Nilgiris was not along the projected path of Cyclone Burevi, residents should exercise caution and stay indoors during rain and heavy winds. She told reporters in Coonoor on Thursday the precautionary measures that were taken in the district during Cyclone Nivar would be continued. “All inter-departmental teams are currently inspecting areas designated as being prone to landslips,” said Ms. Divya. The forecast for the Nilgiris was that there would be rain, but added there was no major worries that they would bring significant damage. “However, people should remain cautious and stay indoors when it rains and when there are heavy winds over the next couple of days,” said Ms. Divya, to prevent any injuries or fatalities caused by trees becoming uprooted or power lines getting snapped. State Disaster Response Force personnel were on standby in case of any emergencies, the Collector added. On Thursday, moderate rainfall was recorded across the Nilgiris. Officials said there was no significant damage to the roads or disruptions caused to traffic due to the rain. However, thick fog along the roads leading to the major towns in the district meant that motorists had very low visibility. Fire and Rescue Service personnel said that they were on high-alert and would remain in a state of preparedness for the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-indoors-during-rain-collector-tells-residents/article33245318.ece
04 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Only a few tanks have good storage in Virudhunagar||With Virudhunagar district experiencing just an overnight drizzle, water managers here say that the region needs good rainfall as most system tanks and minor irrigation tanks have poor storage. The average rainfall in the district in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday was just 8.13 mm. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded in Kariyapatti (15.8 mm), Aruppukottai (13), Sivakais (12.5) and Kovilankulam (12.4). All the other eight rain gauge stations recorded only single digit rainfall. Out of the 342 system tanks under the maintenance of Public Works Department, only 58 tanks have water to their full capacity. Among them 34 tanks were in Upper Vaippar Basin division, 14 in Gundar Basin division and 10 in Vaippar Basin division. Another 91 tanks have water above 70%. However, 193 tanks have less than 70% water storage. Irrigation tanks Meanwhile, out of the 712 minor irrigation tanks, only 145 tanks have more than 75% storage. Among them most of the tanks are in Narikudi, Kariyapatti and Tiruchuli blocks, according to an official. While 333 tanks have less than 50% storage, the remaining 234 tanks have between 50% to 75% storage. Though the district administration has kept a close vigil on those tanks that have water to their full capacity ahead of the anticipated heavy rain, the district administration hoped that the cyclone fills up the remaining of the tanks. “We want good rain so that there is enough water in the tanks to adequately recharge groundwater table,” Collector R. Kannan said. Meanwhile, the State Government has announced public holiday in the district on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-a-few-tanks-have-good-storage-in-virudhunagar/article33244895.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rajini will launch party in January||“But then, when I was ill in Singapore, I came back alive because of their [people’s] prayers. I will be more than happy now if I lose my life for the people. Political change is very important and the need of the hour. If it doesn’t happen now, it won’t happen ever. Everything needs to be changed,” he said. “I am just a small instrument. If I win, it is people’s victory. If I lose, it is people’s loss. I request people to be with me,” said the actor. He recalled his December 31, 2017, announcement and said in March, he had said, “We need to create an uprising among people and then I will start a party. I planned to tour Tamil Nadu, but the pandemic made it impossible...” Elaborating on his fragile health, the actor said, “Everybody knows I have had a kidney transplant. Natural immunity needs to be reduced to enable the body to accept a new organ. But the body needs immunity to fight COVID-19. This is a big problem. Doctors advised it was dangerous to meet people and campaign.” But now he had decided to take the plunge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajini-will-launch-party-in-january/article33245276.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||140 new cases in Coimbatore||Erode district on Thursday reported 48 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,554. While 26 persons were discharged, 434 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the tally to 140. Of the 88 cases reported in Salem, 70 were indigenous including 25 in the Corporation limits. Eighteen patients returned from Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Erode. An 84-year-old man died of the disease. In Namakkal, 27 cases were reported. Two patients returned from Karur and Coimbatore. Krishnagiri reported 15 indigenous cases and Dharmapuri nine. Coimbatore district reported 140 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. According to the Health Department, the district had 935 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Thursday and 206 persons were discharged. With the death of a 60-year-old woman, the toll increased to 615. An official with the Department said the district did not report a significant rise in the number of new cases after Deepavali. However, the Department was yet to rule out chances of a possible spike. Tiruppur reported 63 cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 15,578, of which 520 were active cases. S ixty-one patients were discharged and no COVID-19 deaths were reported on Thursday. The toll so far stood at 210. In the Nilgiris, 25 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,490, with 180 persons undergoing treatment. The toll in the district stood at 42.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-48-cases/article33244906.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 5,700 evacuated from Ramanathapuram coast||Cyclone Burevi, which has weakened into a deep depression, is set to cross the southern districts of Tamil Nadu between late on Thursday night and in the early hours of Friday, according to a weather bulletin. The official machinery across the coastal stretch in southern Tamil Nadu ensured that the people in low-level and vulnerable areas were shifted to relief centres. Many districts witnessed mild rain since Wednesday night. In Madurai, surplus water from the Vandiyur tank was let into the Vaigai. Collector T. Anbalagan and Corporation Commissioner S. Visagan said a special control room was monitoring the situation round the clock. Ramanathapuram Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver supervised the arrangements at a relief centre. The district administration had shifted 5,777 people to 75 relief camps in nine taluks, Mr. Oliver said. 490 relief centres ready Revenue Minister R.B. Udaykumar, who was in Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts, met the Collectors, the Superintendents of Police and monitoring officers. He told presspersons that 490 relief centres had been readied in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts to take in 1.92 lakh evacuees. Of the 7,505 irrigation tanks in the southern districts, only 985 had their maximum storage of water. In a swift operation that lasted three hours, the Coast Guard rescued three fishermen, including a woman, of Mandapam. On information from the Ramanathapuram Collector that the three persons were stranded on Manalli Tivu Island, the Coast Guard deployed a hovercraft at 10 a.m. on Thursday. The crew located the boat and rescued the three persons. Dindigul Sub-Collector Sivaguru Prabhakaran has appealed to the people at Kodaikanal to stay indoors. The ghat section was closed at 7 p.m. on Thusday until further orders. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami arrived in Madurai on Thursday evening to a rousing reception by AIADMK workers. He will inaugurate several projects, including a new building for the Madurai Collectorate, on Friday and then proceed to Sivaganga to review the COVID-19 situation in the district. He will interact with trade and industry representatives and self-help groups before leaving for Chennai. Inspector-General of Police (South Zone) S. Murugan said all the officers in the police control rooms in the coastal districts were in constant touch with State and Central government agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-5700-evacuated-from-ramanathapuram-coast/article33244872.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM to inaugurate drinking water project today||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami arrived here on late Thursday night. He would lay foundation stone for the new drinking water project for Madurai City with source from Periyar dam and also inaugurate new buildings at the Collectorate on Friday. Later, he would proceed to Sivaganga where he would review COVID-19 prevention measures and development works. He will also interact with industrialists, members of self-help groups, and farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-inaugurate-drinking-water-project-today/article33245391.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Training for farmers on water-saving technology||About 50 farmers from rainfed areas in Neiveli village in Tiruchi district participated in off-campus training on ‘Green manure - alternate wetting and drying irrigation’ (AWDI) organised by Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugmani, at Perur on Thursday. The training was organised under the Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernisation Project implemented by Water Technology Centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani, in Aiyyar Sub-basin. Alternate wetting and drying is a water-saving technology that farmers can apply to reduce irrigation and water consumption in rice fields without decreasing yield. The technology of using green manure and alternate wetting and drying irrigation helps conserve up to 40% of water in paddy cultivation.  Lectures A capacity building programme was also conducted with lectures on “Green Manure - Alternate Wetting and Drying Irrigation (AWDI) – Rice follow pulse ” by scientists from Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani. N. Tamilselvan, Professor and Head, Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani, spoke on the importance of rice cultivation using roto puddler ploughing and semi-dwarf rice varieties. Green manure Scientist in-charge of the scheme, M. Sakila, explained the significance of green manure in maintaining soil physical properties and microbial population for further cultivation of rice through Alternate Wetting and Drying Irrigation system and efficiency in maintenance of water. S. Mohan, Teaching Assistant (PBG), explained the technology of rice follow pulses for boosting the income of farmers in the district. M. Mathialagan, Teaching Assistant (ENT), spoke on management of pests in rice, according to a press release from SRS, Sirugamani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-farmers-on-water-saving-technology/article33245535.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Bannari Amman Institute of   Technology, Sathyamangalam: School of Management Studies, Online inauguration of MBA 2020-2022 batch, A. Stephen Raj, Head, Data Science and AI, Robert Bosch, Bengaluru, chief guest, 10 a.m.  Kongu Engineering College,   Perundurai: 36th annual awards, Heritage 2020, V.K. Muthusamy, president, Kongu Vellalar Institute of Technology Trust, presides, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article33244899.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||CII: National higher education conclave, virtual platform, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Online talks on “Importance of Telecommunication”, “Roadmap to Success – Hidden Strengths”, “Radio Frequency Engineering and it's Applications”, and “Construction Practices”, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33245308.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||Coimbatore Cinema Baba Complex, Ph: 2472275 Archana AURO 3D TDX KAVAL THURAI UNGAL NANBAN - 11 a.m., 2.30, 6.30 p.m. Darsana A/c NUNGAMBAKKAM - 11 a.m., 2.30p.m., 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinema-arts-events/article33245319.ece
04 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kanakadasa Jayanti||Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath inaugurated the Kanakadasa Jayanti celebrations at the Basavaraj Kattimani auditorium here on Thursday. He spoke of the life and writings of the 15th century saint-poet. He urged people to seek inspiration from Kanakadasa’s writings that speak of a society free from discrimination on the basis of caste, class or gender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kanakadasa-jayanti/article33244933.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Beer sales plummet by over 33% this year||The sale of beer in Karnataka has taken a huge hit this financial year, as it has plummeted by a whopping 33.58% in comparison to the corresponding period of the last financial year. A major reason attributed to the steep drop is lockdown during April and May, the peak consumption period. A steep excise duty hike has also contributed to decline in sales. While 192.67 lakh carton boxes (CB) were sold last year between April and November, it is down to 127.97 lakh CBs. The sale of Indian-made liqour (IML) has not seen such a steep drop though sales has declined. While a total of 400.86 lakh CBs of IML were sold last year, it declined by 11.19% to 356 lakh CBs this year. To increase revenue, the cash-strapped government increased the excise duty on IML. It had been hiked from 17% to 25% in various slabs, which also included a 6% excise duty hike announced earlier in the budget. The additional hike that came to effect in May was expected to mop up an additional revenue of Rs. 2,350 crore as against an estimated loss of about Rs. 2,500 crore due to shutdown. In April this year, just about Rs. 1.06 crore was collected when compared to Rs. 1,302 crore last year. Overall, the revenue collection has come down by 4.25% of Rs. 612 crore compared to last year. So far, excise duty collection till November is Rs. 13,778 crore. While beer sales drew a blank in April due to lockdown, just about 12.29 lakh CBs were sold this May as against 31.59 lakh CBs last May. Between June and October, beer sales has clocked lesser than the corresponding period last year. Only in November, the sales has been higher compared to the last year. The Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, has said that the decline in revenue and sales was owing to the steep hike in May. “Bars have not shown improvement in sales, and footfall has not increased. In times of pandemic, a steep hike does not augur well. Despite repeated requests to government to reduce excise duty, it is in no mood to do so,” federation’s general secretary Govindraj Hegde said. He said that bars that clock high beer sales started operating much later, which is also a reason for the low sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beer-sales-plummet-by-over-33-this-year/article33244950.ece
04 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP’s ‘angry’ old guard seeks a meeting of party legislators||Turmoil in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has a new twist with the party old-timers coming in the open for the first time against the recent developments marked by perceived groupism, one-upmanship, and indiscipline. This is bound to put Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in a spot, as they have urged party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel to convene a meeting of party legislators to facilitate discussion. On behalf of the old-timers, who form the core of the party’s ideological identity, V. Sunil Kumar, government Chief Whip in the Assembly and Karkala MLA, shot off a letter to Mr. Kateel on December 1, urging him to convene a meeting of all the legislators of the party. Appointments resented Mr. Yediyurappa’s recent actions, especially the manner in which the appointments to boards and corporations were made, are expected to come under scrutiny by the legislators as Mr. Kumar has said in the letter that the legislators would also like to share their views on appointments and ministerial expansion, among other things. Mr. Yediyurappa has reportedly ignored the recommendations made by the party organisation for appointments to boards and corporations, and instead appointed those loyal to him. This is being seen within the party as a message by Mr. Yediyurappa to the party high command that he would not step down meekly if he was asked to do so. The party old-timers seem to be targeting migrants who came to the BJP recently and became Ministers, as Mr. Kumar has stated in the letter that there is a dire need to state the party’s disciplinary norms, irrespective of where they originally came from. “Recent developments, including the public statements of Ministers, legislators, and prominent leaders, have hurt thousands who are working with an ideology and committed to party discipline,” Mr. Kumar has said, in an obvious reference to the mudslinging between the recent entrants to the party and a few other legislators. He said that suggestions by legislators in the meeting were bound to further strengthen the party, besides making the administration more effective. Ahead of session The letter, which has been written just ahead of the winter session of the State legislature, is being seen as public expression of dissatisfaction against the functioning style of Mr. Yediyurappa at a time when the central leadership is reportedly thinking of replacing him. The letter is addressed to the State president and not to the Chief Minister, though the latter is the legislature party leader. Meanwhile, sources said that the old-timers want to urge the party leadership in the proposed meeting to prescribe norms and guidelines for making appointments to boards and corporations. They also want to prevail upon the party leadership to prevent all people from making statements on behalf of the government and party, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-angry-old-guard-seeks-a-meeting-of-party-legislators/article33245060.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Detergent manufacturers told to limit phosphate content||Signalling a significant step towards preventing frothing and excessive algal growth in water bodies such as lakes, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has directed manufacturers of detergents to adhere to revised specifications for phosphate content issued by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). This has been a long-pending demand from citizens, environmentalists and scientists since the frothing and fuming in lakes of Bengaluru became international news. The revised standards limiting phosphate content were in turn issued as per directions given by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on a 2017 application pertaining to Agara, Bellandur and Varthur lakes, the KSPCB has said. “All manufactures located in the State of Karnataka are hereby informed and directed to adhere to the standards with immediate effect. Similarly, detergent powders, detergent bars and synthetic detergents manufactured outside Kamataka are also required to adhere to the above specifications while being marketed in the State,” the recent notice by the pollution control board said. According to the KSPCB, as per the NGT directions, the BIS has limited the phosphate content in household laundry detergent powders, detergent bars and synthetic detergents for washing woollen and silk fabrics as the presence of phosphorous in excess in water bodies is known to cause “eutrophication” (loosely defined as accumulation of nutrients), leading to algal growth. This poses risk to aquatic life. Implementation key to rejuvenation Srinivasulu, Member Secretary, KSPCB told The Hindu that the notification from the BIS is applicable with immediate effect. Prof. T.V. Ramachandra from the Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, said the BIS restrictions would prove useful in the rejuvenation scheme as the present treatment options are not capable of removing the nutrients. But this alone would not help, he pointed out. “Along with this, industry has to treat its effluents, and sewage needs to be treated too. Hopefully, all of these together will help in rejuvenation,” he added. Nitrates and phosphates have a foaming effect, explained U.V. Singh, member of the NGT-appointed committee to oversee the protection and rejuvenation of Agara, Bellandur and Varthur lakes. “Subsequently, due to the sluice gates, foaming has reduced. But the entry of phosphates has not reduced because the generation of phosphates is due to soaps and detergents and other such things. There was a proposal earlier too that the BIS should have limitations similar to those in developed countries,” he said. But he too said this cannot be a “spot-fix” process ending with the order. “There need to be some alternatives if industries have to switch to other remedies. This is a beginning, but it needs to be collaborated with the industry and agencies implementing the directions. There are not many big industries in Karnataka, and most of them are coming from outside the State, over which the KSPCB has no jurisdiction. To make the BIS directions effective, it will take time, and the Central government’s Ministry of Environment should also intervene. It should be monitored though, because without monitoring and continuous persuasion, it cannot be done. It has to be done in a time-bound manner,” Mr. Singh added. Asked about plans to implement the directions, Mr. Srinivasulu said, “We are abiding by directions of the NGT. We are communicating the BIS specifications to everybody. Not only the pollution control board, different agencies are looking at the quality of products, including the BIS.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/detergent-manufacturers-told-to-limit-phosphate-content/article33245266.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||B.V. Srinivas is first Kannadiga to become IYC president||B.V. Srinivas, who hails from a non-political family in Bhadravati of Shivamogga district, is the first Kannadiga to occupy the coveted post of the president of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC), which has produced several national leaders during the last few decades. Interestingly, BJP’s incumbent youth wing president at the national level, Tejasvi Surya, is also from Karnataka. Mr. Srinivas, 39, who was interim president of IYC for over a year now, was appointed full-time president of the organisation by AICC interim president Sonia Gandhi. He is the 18th president of IYC. Mr. Srinivas represented the Karnataka under-16 team. “The party has recognised my commitment and dedication to the work assigned to me and has given me a bigger responsibility now,” Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu on Thursday.  Born in a middle class family of the Balija community, Mr. Srinivas has neither money power nor any family member in politics. A student of National College, Basavanagudi, in Bengaluru, he began his political career as a NSUI member during college days. Later, he became a block Congress president of IYC, followed by positions at the district level and State level of IYC. He shifted to the national capital when he was appointed as national secretary and later general secretary of IYC. He was appointed vice-president in 2018 for a year. Being loyal to former Congress president and MP Rahul Gandhi, he was appointed the interim president of IYC in 2019 when Keshav Chand Yadav resigned from the post of the president after the party’s poor show in 2019 general elections. On his new responsibility, Mr. Srinivas said: “Youth cannot be used only for raising slogans in political rallies. They have to be participants in decision-making process.”  During the COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Srinivas launched several campaigns and protests focusing on unemployment, migrant crisis and set up a facility to enable migrants to travel in Shramik trains to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and other Northeastern States. It was under Mr. Srinivas’s leadership that the IYC organised “National Unemployment Day” on the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bv-srinivas-is-first-kannadiga-to-become-iyc-president/article33245058.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIMB creates a bio-bubble to facilitate phased return of students to campus||To help students return to campus in a phased manner, the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB) has created a bio-bubble where students who come to the campus are isolated for 14 days. The institute said it has done this to create a safe and secure environment for the students and staff and minimise the risk of COVID-19 transmission. While all the classes are still being held online, many students wanted to return to the campus as they were facing infrastructure constraints at home, included poor internet connectivity and power disruption. The first batch of students returned at the end of June. According to IIMB officials, students who wish to return have to undergo a COVID-19 test 72 hours before reaching the campus and then have to isolate themselves for 14 days on getting to the campus. “Once their isolation period is complete, they have to undergo an RT-PCR test,” a note from IIMB stated. The students are not allowed to leave the campus unless permitted by the health centre. The institute had formed a steering committee in March to meet thrice a week and monitor all of its activities and initiatives. Regular advisories are issued to the IIMB staff and students. The institute has also established a few rules on the campus, including restricting the number of visitors, asking all students and staff to wear face masks in common areas, and ensuring that only one person sits on a table in the dining area. BBMP’s assistance IIMB authorities said that Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) authorities had been extremely proactive and had helped follow the COVID-19 safety norms while also assisting the institute in conducting regular tests on campus. So far, 1,053 people have been tested at the institute. Rudresh K., nodal officer for COVID-19 at Bilekahalli ward in Bommanahalli zone, BBMP, said they had to initially persuade to the staff and students to use the services of the BBMP to get tested. “But after we conducted a few camps on the campus, people are very forthcoming to get themselves tested. This has helped us stop a spread of the infection on campus.”  Once their isolation period is complete, they have to undergo an RT-PCR test IIMB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iimb-creates-a-bio-bubble-to-facilitate-phased-return-of-students-to-campus/article33244942.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada groups adamant on tomorrow’s bandh in State||A coalition of Kannada organisations is adamant of the Karnataka bandh call on Saturday. This, even as Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday appealed to call off the bandh and threatened stringent action against anyone forcing businesses to close. “There is no question of going back on the bandh call, when despite severe opposition from Kannada groups the State government has gone ahead and notified the Maratha Development Corporation. If the government doesn’t want a bandh, it should scrap the notification,” said Vatal Nagaraj, president, Kannada Okkoota. He claimed that thousands of organisations had supported the bandh call and it would be successful. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, which had shied away from supporting the bandh earlier, has now announced its support. T.A. Narayana Gowda has appealed to people to observe a voluntary bandh. KRV workers will protest at all taluk and DC’s offices, sources said. However, the support for bandh has been mixed. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotel and Restaurants’ Federation, has announced that all eateries would function as usual and were not supporting the bandh call. However, Tanveer Pasha, of Bengaluru Taxi and Auto Federation, said taxis and autorickshaws would be off the road on Saturday. Meanwhile, the State government is keen on keeping all public transport functioning as usual. Tight security Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has directed the police force to heighten security and intensify patrolling. Mr. Pant held a meeting with senior police officers to discuss the security measures on Thursday. Senior officers of all the divisions have been directed to take up measures to ensure law and order in their jurisdictions. The police have been asked to monitor the movements of habitual offenders. As many as 15,000 policemen, along with 30 KSRP and 20 CAR platoons, have been deployed to handle the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-groups-adamant-on-tomorrows-bandh-in-state/article33244940.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Veerappan returns to dominate the public imagination||Some stories will always retain their grip on the imagination of the public, with time only fuelling curiosity. The Veerappan saga — where two States spent more than a decade and a half trying to catch a poacher and forest brigand — is one such real-life story. There seems to be a renewed interest in Veerappan and not just in popular culture. A mega-budget multilingual web series is under production and a retired top cop has come out with a well-researched academic book on Veerappan in Kannada. Sources say that at least two other web series based on the life of Veerappan are in the pipeline. Kannada filmmaker A.M.R. Ramesh, who is known to make films on contemporary events, had earlier made Attahasa (2013) on Veerappan and the operation that killed him in 2004. For his current project, he has finished the first schedule of the shooting for the web series Veerappan: Hunger for Killing , starring Kishore as Veerappan and senior actors Arjun Sarja, Suniel Shetty, Suresh Oberoi, Vivek Oberoi, Adil Hussein, and Kay Kay Menon in various roles. “We are working to release the first season by March 2021,” said Mr. Ramesh. The series is being produced in Kannada, Hindi, Telugu, and Tamil. Meanwhile, former Director-General of Police D.V. Guruprasad’s book Dantakatheyada Dantachora: Operation Veerappan: Pratyakshadarshigalu Kandante , also doubles up as a biography of the brigand — something no one has attempted till now. “The research for the book took one and a half years and I have interviewed over 300 people, including Veerappan’s family, residents of his village, and several policemen, making it one of the most authoritative books on the subject,” Dr. Guruprasad said. So why is the Veerappan story still relevant and why does it hold the audience enraptured? Both Mr. Ramesh and Dr. Guruprasad seem to be keen to record the events, as a documentation and perhaps as a cautionary tale. “Come to think of it, there are many parallels between Veerappan and the drug lord Pablo Escobar of Colombia. We need to analyse what led to his rise and what were the failures of the state,” said Mr. Ramesh. Dr. Guruprasad approached the subject like an academic research project with two questions: how did a small-time poacher grow into a dreaded criminal and why did two States, despite their resources, fail to catch him for over a decade and a half? “I want the book to be read like a textbook by policemen and administrators alike. I have tried to analyse why our police failed. Lack of coordination and sharing of intelligence, and not engaging with the forest seemed the main reasons. It is an academic exercise,” he said. But at the heart of the story, the Veerappan saga is a human drama, of a man’s rise to infamy, his greed and bloodlust, and the intersection of tribal and language issues. It is a multi-layered and complex narrative to the age-old police and robber tale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/veerappan-returns-to-dominate-the-public-imagination/article33244947.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deadlock continues at Toyota’s Bidadi factory||The Toyota Kirloskar Motor Employees’ Union on Thursday said it was prepared either for a long drawn out conflict or negotiation under its own terms to end the stalemate at the automaker’s Bidadi factory. The deadline issued by the State government and the Department of Labour to end the dispute will end on December 7. Prasanna Kumar Chekkere, president, TKM Union, said, “The union and its 3,500 members want the workload issue and suspension of 40 workers, including the office bearers and executive committee members, to be revoked. Else, the union is prepared for a long drawn out conflict with the management.” Addressing a media conference here, he alleged that the workers’ protest happened only after the management kept changing production norms without any study or consultation with the recognised trade union.  The union has been raising the issue of workload and its adverse impact on the mental and physical wellbeing of workers. “We raised the matter with the management in July, 2019, in writing, but it dismissed the issue in a flippant manner,” said the leader. However, TKM management in a statement said the strike was called upon protesting the suspension pending enquiry (SPE) of one of the employees who has had a “systematic record of misconduct” and was again involved in the breach of discipline and unacceptable behaviour within the factory premises. “TKM would like to clarify here that the SPE is neither a punishment nor a loss of a job but a standard legal measure to ensure free and fair enquiry of the misconduct of an employee by a third party enquiry officer,” the statement said. During the SPE period, the employee concerned is eligible to receive legally designated subsistence allowances which is a portion of his salary and the person is reinstated at work if he is found not guilty, it clarified. Discipline will always be at the core of TKM’s operations, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadlock-continues-at-toyotas-bidadi-factory/article33244948.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Take ‘Gram Swaraj’ to flood-hit villages: HDK||Urging the Bharatiya Janata Party to take its “Gram Swaraj” programme, launched ahead of the gram panchayat polls, to villages in flood-hit north Karnataka, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday said that it could help in understanding the plight of people only if done in earnest. “Let the BJP leaders visit those villages and hear the grievances. Let them see their plight and provide relief,” he tweeted. “The government should think on making villages sustainable and it would be the right meaning for gram swaraj. Otherwise, it will just be a self-centred party organisation activity,” he added. ‘Gandhiji’s dream’ Further, he said: “The BJP is conducting gram swaraj programme in the light of gram panchayat elections, taking the idea from Gandhiji’s dream. Let this be an opportunity for minister, legislators and government to understand the pressing problems in villages and address them permanently.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-gram-swaraj-to-flood-hit-villages-hdk/article33244951.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State sees 1,446 new cases, 13 deaths||The State on Thursday reported 1,446 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,89,113. With 13 deaths, the toll rose to 11,821. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 894 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,52,584. Of the remaining 24,698 active patients, 299 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.33%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 0.89%. Bengaluru Urban reported 758 cases, taking its tally to 3,71,962. With six deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,162. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 18,938. As many as 1,08,685 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 90,002 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-sees-1446-new-cases-13-deaths/article33244953.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-mulakat facility for prisoners||The Prison Department, which has restricted the visitation facility of inmates’ family members to the Central Prison at Parappana Agrahara due to COVID-19, will soon launch e-mulakat facility. The facility will soon be extended to other prisons across the city. A separate room has been set up to allow family members to talk to the inmates on video call. A senior officer of the rank of jailer will be designated to supervise the facility. Every visitor will be given four to five minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-mulakat-facility-for-prisoners/article33245056.ece
04 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Experts urge govt. to restart Ksheera Bhagya||A number of nutritionists, doctors, and activists wrote to the Chief Minister on Thursday to restart the Ksheera Bhagya programme for government and aided school students. According to them, there has been a “total shutdown” of milk and milk powder since June. While all students were given 500 grams of milk powder for the period between March 14 and April 10, the Department of Public Instruction had asked the heads of government schools to distribute milk powder for the period between April and May 31 if they had stock at school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-urge-govt-to-restart-ksheera-bhagya/article33244954.ece
04 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Farm laws burnt in effigies in Dharwad, march taken out||Expressing solidarity with farmers who are on their way to New Delhi seeking the withdrawal of the new farm laws, members of the Raita Krishi Karmik Sanghatane (RKS) took out a protest march in Dharwad on Thursday. All India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sanghatan (AIKKMS) has expressed solidarity with farmers from across the nation who are trying to enter New Delhi since November 26 in their bid to get the new laws repealed by the Union government. The members of RKS, which is affiliated to AIKKMS, marched from Dr. Mallikarjun Mansur Kalabhavan in Dharwad to Vivekanand Circle where they staged a demonstration and burnt the three new laws in effigies. The farmers are agitating in New Delhi seeking the repeal of Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 to which the President has given his assent after they were passed by Parliament. Dharwad district president of RKS Laxman Jadagannavar said that the Union government signed the death order of farmers according to the wishes of the country’s corporate houses. “The Union government has misused the COVID-19 lockdown and meted out injustice to farmers and the working class. Farmers who had hitherto patiently suffered are now up in arms against the government,” he said. Mr. Jadagannavar said that the hidden agenda of the Union government which was acting at the behest of corporate houses had been exposed now. The government which was claiming to be saviour of farmers through the One Nation, One Market programme had now been exposed as the farmers had now understood its real intentions. The Centre had already taken privatisation measures in the Railways, education, health, postal, transport, banking and insurance and now, it was trying to hand over the farming sector on a platter to the corporate houses, he said. He strongly condemned the use of force against the protesting farmers and the use of water canons and lobbing of tear gas shells on farmers and said that the government had least regard for farmers. District secretary Sharanu Gonawar said that despite the government’s repeated efforts to break farmers unity and disrupt the peaceful protest, the movement was getting stronger day by day much to the despair of the ruling disposition. He also condemned a section of the media and a few corporate houses, which, he said, were trying to link the farmers agitation with the Khalistan movement and project them in bad light. The farmers would go ahead with their fight as several organisations and individuals had expressed solidarity with them, he said. Solidarity Week Meanwhile, All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) has launched Solidarity Week in support of the farmers agitation against the three new farm laws. District secretary of AIDSO Ranajit Dhoopad has said that students would hold various programmes and stage protests in support of the farmers till December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-laws-burnt-in-effigies-in-dharwad-march-taken-out/article33244936.ece
04 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Simple programmes mark Kanakadasa Jayanti||The birth anniversary of saint poet Kanakadasa was celebrated by various organisations and government departments in a simple manner in the districts of Haveri, Gadag, and Dharwad on Thursday, with the celebrations limited to short programmes in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In Dharwad, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale offered floral tributes to a portrait of the saint poet at a programme organised jointly by the district administration, zilla panchayat, and the Department of Kannada and Culture. Assistant Director of Kannada and Culture Manjula Eligar, seer of Mansur Mutt Sri Basavaraj Devaru, and community leaders were present. Deputy Commissioner of Gadag M. Sundaresh Babu offered floral tributes to a portrait of the saint poet at Kanakadasa Circle, Hatalageri Naka, in a simple birth anniversary celebration. He was joined by MLC S.V. Sankanur, CEO of Gadag Zilla Panchayat K. Anand, Superintendent of Police N. Yatish and others. In Haveri, Deputy Commissioner Sanjay Shettennavar also offered floral tributes to a portrait of the saint poet. Superintendent of Police K.G. Devaraj, zilla panchayat CEO Ramesh Desai, Additional Deputy Commissioner Yogeshwar, Assistant Director of Information and Publicity B.R. Ranganath, and other officials, apart from members of the Kuruba community, were present. At the birth anniversary programme at the District Institute of Education and Training, professor Y.B. Badavadagi delivered a talk on the life and works of Kanakadasa and said that the ideals of the saint poet, who strived for social change through his ‘keertanas’, should become a part of everyone’s life. “The messages of Kanakadasa centred on the aspirations of the commoners,” he said. Raju Bhooshetty, editor of Jeevana Shikshana magazine, said Kanakadasa considered the universe as one family and advocated a society built on the principles of mutual love, trust, and brotherhood. At the Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangha in Dharwad, office-bearers, writers, and musicians congregated to celebrate the day. Members of various political partiesalso held small functions to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-programmes-mark-kanakadasa-jayanti/article33244944.ece
04 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sind Krait rescued, released to safety||Sind Krait ( Bungarus sindanus ), a venomous elapid snake species normally found in Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan and parts of India, was rescued by a medical student from Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari late on Monday night. A final year MBBS student Ashok B.N., who has been rescuing snakes for years now, reached VIMS Stadium at about 8.30 p.m. after he received a phone call from an unidentified person who said that he had spotted a snake. After close observation of the snake, Ashok concluded that it was a Krait. But, he was unsure whether it was the Common Krait or the Sind Krait. However, by further observation of its scales, bands and other features, he concluded that it was the Sind Krait that is normally not found in South India. He then went on to rescue it and later, released it in a safe and distant place. “We find the Common Krait all over India. But, the Sind Krait, which is named after the Sindh province in Pakistan as it is commonly found there, is not found in South India. I think it was for the first time that we have found the nocturnal snake in South India,” Ashok told The Hindu over the phone. Ashok also said that the Sind Krait is highly venomous and the existing anti-venom medicine doesn’t work against it. Ashok said that the Sind Krait looks like the Common Krait except for a few morphological features. “Sind Krait has single white band which is divided on the lateral part of the body as compared to the two divided bands found on the Common Krait. Its lower lip and body are yellowish. The mid-body scale count of the Sind Krait is 17 as compared to 15 in the Common Krait,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sind-krait-rescued-released-to-safety/article33244930.ece
04 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Savadi calls upon BJP leaders to work hard for GP polls||Underlining the role the hard work and sacrifice of grassroots-level party workers played in bringing the BJP to power at the State and national levels, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has called upon party leaders to pay them back by working hard to ensure the victory party workers in the gram panchayat elections. “It is because of the party workers at the village and booth levels that the BJP is in power at the State and the Centre. It is because of the party workers’ hard work and sacrifice that we have becomeleaders and Ministers. Now, the time has come for all of us to work for the cadres and put them in power. Gram panchayat elections are the election of party workers and we have to spend the next 15 days in villages, working hard and campaigning for the party-supported candidates and ensuring their victory,” he said. He was addressing a Gram Swaraj conference organised at S.M. Pundit Ranagamandir in Kalaburagi on Wednesday to mark the launch of the BJP’s gram panchayat poll campaign. Hailing his party as the one that had been displaying high regard for common party workers both in words and deeds, Mr. Savadi criticised the Congress for “exploiting” its party workers for the development of its leaders. “The Congress nurtured a bad culture of exploiting its party workers for the progress of leaders. The BJP views each cadre as a potential leader. It always prefers ordinary workers while distributing high positions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/savadi-calls-upon-bjp-leaders-to-work-hard-for-gp-polls/article33244937.ece
04 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Abolish boards and corporations based on caste, linguistic lines’||Strongly opposing the formation of the Karnataka Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation and Maratha Development Corporation, members of the Dr. Ambedkar Peoples Party demanded that the State government abolish such corporations created on the basis of caste and linguistic groups Party’s State youth wing president C.M. Krishna, addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Wednesday, said that electoral benefits in mind, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has created new boards and corporations violating Articles 14, 15, 16, and 19 of the Constitution which mandate equality before law. He also criticised the Opposition Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) for being “mute spectators” to the BJP-led government’s decision to set up new boards and corporations to woo various communities. If the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) failed to raise their voice against such anti-Constitutional action, he said, Ambedkar’s dream of a casteless society will remain a distant dream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abolish-boards-and-corporations-based-on-caste-linguistic-lines/article33244931.ece
04 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||DSS meet on Sunday||To commemorate Mahaparinirvan Divas, the death anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar on December 6, the Karnataka State Dalit Sangharsh Samiti will organise a State-level conference in Bengaluru. Addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, State convener of the samiti D.G. Sagar said that the former Minister H.C. Mahadevappa will inaugurate the conference. Writer Siddalingaiah will be the chief guest. Secretary of Karnataka Gandhi Smarak Nidhi Indira B. Krishnappa, MLA K. Annadaani and activist H.M. Rudraswamy will participate in the conference. Dr. Sagar said that the samiti will also organise district-level conferences across the State from December 10 to December 30 to highlight, according to him, the failure of the BJP government in the State and at the Centre. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has established the Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation and the Maratha Development Authority to woo the two communities, Dr. Sagar criticised and demanded that the government utilise available funds for the empowerment of the unorganised sectors and the uplift of the downtrodden people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dss-meet-on-sunday/article33244929.ece
04 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Withdraw power tariff hike, says samiti||Opposing the increase in power tariff by 40 paise per unit across all categories, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti has demanded that the tariff hike be withdrawn. District president of the samiti Moula Mulla and All India Kisan Sabha district president Sharanabasappa Mamshetty addressing a press conference here on Wednesday stated that though the electricity supply companies had sought a hike of Rs. 1.26 per unit, the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has burdened the consumers by increasing power tariff by 40 paise per unit. They also sought 12 hours of three-phase power supply during the day for the agriculture sector and replacement of old transformers. The samiti would submit a memorandum to all legislators and intensify the agitation across the State if the hike in power tariff is not withdrawn immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-power-tariff-hike-says-samiti/article33244932.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Traffic management plans for all city corpns. getting ready||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that his department was preparing comprehensive traffic management plans for all city corporations in the State, funds for which were likely to be allocated in the 2021-22 State Budget. Speaking after inaugurating the quarters for police personnel at Panambur here, he said that detailed project reports would be completed before the Budget so as to get funds for managing the increasing traffic in city corporation limits. He said that Mangaluru was one of the important fast-growing cities of the State and also one located strategically, and it thus required special attention from the government. Mr. Bommai, who inaugurated a state-of-the-art forensic science laboratory for the department in Bengaluru recently, said similar labs should be set up across the State. “The government has plans to open such labs in all five police ranges, as well as in police commissionerates, in the coming days for speeding up investigation,” he said. Lauding the State Police Housing Corporation for building the required accommodation for police personnel across the State, Mr. Bommai said that the government intended to enhance housing facility to cover at least 75 % of the personnel, from the present 51 %. With the government targeting completion of 11,000 more houses for the personnel by 2025, 60 % of the personnel will come to have quarters, the Minister said. For Mangaluru, the department has sanctioned 74 new units for the 2025 project. The Minister said that this would be enhanced to 100. Already, 192 units have been built. If local officials identify more land, more units will be sanctioned, given the strategic importance of the region, Mr. Bommai said. Speaking about the recent messages written on walls in the city, Mr. Bommai said that they were intended to create unrest, similar to ones witnessed in troubled areas, including Jammu and Kashmir. He expressed the confidence that the police would soon bring the perpetrators to book. The Police Department would soon arrest the accused. Mangaluru, with its mega industries, strategic location and the border with Kerala, requires special attention and the government was committed to providing it. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari, Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-management-plans-for-all-city-corpns-getting-ready/article33245410.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kadri Gopalnath memorial to be opened on Sunday||A memorial built for saxophone exponent late Kadri Gopalnath will be inaugurated at Sajipa village in Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday, according to music director Manikanth Kadri. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, he said that Sajipa is the native place of late Gopalnath. Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada Nalin Kumar Kateel will garland the memorial. A bust of Gopalnath will be unveiled on that day. Disciplines of late Gopalnath will present classical concerts at the memorial site from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. on the day. He said that there is a plan to develop a cultural centre on a minimum of five acre of land in the city in the memory of Gopalnath. It will be similar to Kalamandalam near Thrissur in Kerala. The cultural centre should be a place for teaching and learning various fine arts, folk dances and music. International students should also be able to learn various art forms at the cultural centre. The government will be approached to help develop the cultural centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kadri-gopalnath-memorial-to-be-opened-on-sunday/article33245413.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Notify maximum contract demand for LT lines, says KCCI||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has urged the State government to enhance the maximum contract demand for low tension electricity lines from the present 67 HP to 100 HP. In a letter to the Principal Secretary, Department of Energy, president of KCCI Isaac Vas said that in some neighbouring States, the maximum contract demand for LT consumers ranges from 100 HP to 150 HP. To avail of High Tension Electricity Line (HT), industry has to install a dedicated transformer which not only adds to the cost for the MSME but also adds to the cost of doing business. The products manufactured become less competitive. This is an unnecessary burden imposed on the MSME. “Enhancing the limits for LT line to 100 HP will help boost new manufacturing units in the State as well as help in augmenting the capacity of the existing units,” Mr. Vas said. Further, there is a difference of Rs. 0.60 per unit for the higher slab for industrial consumption under LT Schedule 5 (b) Tariff and HT Schedule 2 (a) Tariff. In the Latest Industrial Policy 2020-2025, the State government has committed to increasing the maximum contract demand for LT consumers from present 67 HP to 100 HP (under point 5.2 Infrastructure Support, Page 28). Hence, the government has already taken a policy decision. The chamber is requesting the government to notify the change in the official gazette, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notify-maximum-contract-demand-for-lt-lines-says-kcci/article33245417.ece
04 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Law against ‘love jihad’ after thorough discussion: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the State government is committed to bringing in a law to prevent “love jihad” (marriage for the sake of conversion) after “thorough discussion”. The Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh governments have approved the ordinance to prevent “love jihad” and the draft of the ordinance approved by those States will be studied by the officials in Karnataka. “After a thorough discussion, the law will be enacted in Karnataka,” the Home Minister said. The Home Minister clarified that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has not opposed enacting a law against ‘love jihad’. Interestingly, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy earlier this week had said that the government has no plan on tabling a Bill against ‘love jihad’ and no decision has been taken at the government level in this regard. Sources in the Secretariat had said that the Bill is unlikely to come up during the ensuing winter session, starting on December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/law-against-love-jihad-after-thorough-discussion-bommai/article33245053.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood logs seized near Vandse||Forest Department officials near Vandse in Udupi district seized 3.8 kg of sandalwood logs from a man on Wednesday. Rajesh (34), a resident of Haklumane in Vandse village, was the one arrested. The logs were seized when the accused was transporting them in an autorickshaw, sources in the department said. The officials are investigating how he sourced the logs and to where and why he was transporting them. According to a Forest Department official, the accused said that he did not commit the crime and that he was not aware that the logs had been hidden in the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandalwood-logs-seized-near-vandse/article33245408.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Upgraded govt. hospital to boost health care||Udupi district in-charge and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday that the new 250-bed government district hospital in Udupi will be ready within 20 months, after the contract is awarded to the selected bidder. It will be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 150 crore. Speaking after visiting the site at Ajjarakad where the new building will come up, he said that the required number of doctors, para-medical and other staff will be provided to the hospital. When the new hospital set-up is ready, it will be a boost to the health care sector in Udupi, Mr. Bommai said. The Minister said that if required, additional funds will be sanctioned as a spacious multi-level parking facility should be provided near the new hospital. He said that the present 150-bed hospital will get upgraded as a 250-bed hospital with new infrastructure. The Minister instructed officials to build a 12 m wide approach road to the site where the new building will be built.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/upgraded-govt-hospital-to-boost-health-care/article33245411.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Land allotted for Konkani Bhavan||The State government has granted 30 cents of land in Urwa Stores for building a Konkani Bhavan, according to chairman of Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy Jagadeesha Pai. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, he said that the government has released Rs. 5 crore to construct the bhavan. The plan of the building, which will come up near the office of Mangaluru Urban Development Authority, will be submitted to the government shortly. The building will be constructed in three phases and the foundation stone for the building will be laid soon. He said that a delegation of the academy will meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa soon to take up some matters with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-allotted-for-konkani-bhavan/article33245414.ece
04 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Christians postpone agitation||Ivan D’Souza, former MLC, on Thursday said the Christian community has postponed the Statewide agitation planned on Friday in view of the government showing interest to constitute the Christian Development Corporation. Addressing presspersons, he said the day-long hunger strike scheduled in Mangaluru on December 4 has been put off. Christian leaders will not hold demonstration in Bengaluru on December 7 when the State legislature sessions will begin, he said. Mr. D’Souza said after he announced on December 1 that a Statewide agitation would be launched to urge the government to form the corporation, the government has invited him and other Christian leaders for talks on constituting it. No date has been fixed. He said former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had announced constitution of the corporation in the 2019-20 Budget. However, the government on June 16 this year rejected the proposal on the direction of the CM, Mr. D’Souza said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christians-postpone-agitation/article33245061.ece
04 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 10-cr. grant for task force welcomed||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO) has welcomed the government’s decision to grant Rs. 10 crore to the Task Force on Arecanut. The funds will help speed up the activities of the task force, president of the cooperative S.R. Satishchandra said in a release. The funds will be used for research in developing value-added products of arecanut and to manage legal matters pertaining to the arecanut sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-10-cr-grant-for-task-force-welcomed/article33244938.ece
04 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||BSY will go: Siddaramaiah||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah is sticking to his prediction about an imminent change of leadership in the BJP government in Karnataka by claiming that the BJP central leadership is planning to remove B.S. Yediyurappa as the Chief Minister. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru on Thursday, Mr. Siddaramaiah reiterated that Mr Yediyurappa will be removed. “I had said this about a month ago”, he recalled. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the information about Mr. Yediyurappa’s ‘removal’ need not necessarily be communicated to him from the BJP central leadership. “There are so many other sources to get information”, he said. Further, he described Mr. Yediyurappa as the “most incompetent” Chief Minister of Karnataka. “Even though more than a year and four months had passed since the coalition government fell, the BJP government in the State was yet to take off. There is no government in the State”, he said. Denial Mr. Siddaramaiah also denied accusing former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda of taking money for campaigning in favour of Congress candidate, but supporting the BJP during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Mysuru. When reporters drew his attention to Mr. Gowda’s denial of accepting money for campaigning, he said he never made such a charge in the first place. All that he said during the meeting held in Bengaluru recently without any media presence was that the Congress should not have entered into an alliance with the JD(S) during the Lok Sabha polls. “I said that the Congress would have won Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Tumakuru among the 5-6 seats had the party not entered into a tie-up with the JD(S).” However, he drew the mediapersons’ attention to BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath’s claim that he had not received a “large sum” of money that had been sent to him by the BJP leaders through the Chief Minister’s political secretary N.R. Santosh and former Minister C.P. Yogeshwar ahead of the by-elections in Hunsur during December 2018. “Was the money sent to him white or black? To whom was the money sent?. Was it given by Mr. Yediyurappa or somebody else. It should be probed.” Mr. Siddaramaiah also accused the RSS of trying to isolate him in the Kuruba community over the campaign launched by the BJP for a ST tag for Kurubas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-will-go-siddaramaiah/article33245044.ece
04 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||B.C. Patil lands in the soup over remarks on farmers ending lives||While a mammoth agitation by farmers is on at the national capital, Karnataka’s Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil found himself at the centre of a controversy over his alleged remarks against farmers committing suicide. Former Chief Ministers H.D. Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah were quick to denounce the Minister for describing farmers committing suicide as “cowards”, with the JD(S) leader urging Mr. Patil to apologise to the farming community. Participating in a programme at Ponnampet in Kodagu on Thursday, Mr. Patil had urged farmers not to commit suicide. “Farmers should not commit suicide. Those who commit suicide are cowards. Whatever may be the reason, they should not take such a step. They should fight against problems and emerge out of it,” Mr. Patil said. The government will provide all kinds of support to farmers and there is no reason for them to lose hope, Mr. Patil said. Taking exception to Mr. Patil’s description of farmers committing suicide, Mr. Kumaraswamy took to Twitter and said farmers are “self-respecting”.  ‘For their honour’ When moneylenders harass them, they fear for their honour and take recourse to suicide. “A farmer is not a coward as the Agriculture Minister says,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. The JD(S) leader accused Mr. Patil of insulting farmers. “A farmer commits suicide when he feels he has lost respect in front of his wife, children, relatives, and fellow villagers,” he said. Taking a dig at Mr. Patil for defecting from the Congress to the BJP, the former Chief Minister said a farmer does not change his colour like a “chameleon” for the sake of power. A farmer is hardworking and depends on his land to earn a living. “The union and State governments should support the farming community by formulating and implementing schemes for them. They should not be labelled cowards,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. ‘Irresponsible statement’ Mr. Siddaramaiah too criticised the remarks. “It is an irresponsible statement,” said the Congress leader in response to a question by a reporter in Mysuru. “He is the Agriculture Minister. He should speak responsibly,” he said.  The Union and State governments should support the farming community by formulating and implementing schemes for them. They should not be labelled cowards. H.D. Kumaraswamy Former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bc-patil-lands-in-the-soup-over-remarks-on-farmers-ending-lives/article33245055.ece
04 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ashok’s pat for Somashekar||Praising Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar’s work as Minister in charge of Mysuru district, Revenue Minister R. Ashok claimed that people in neighbouring Chamarajanagar too were favouring him as Minister in charge of their district. Participating in a Gram Swaraj meeting organised by the BJP in Maddur on Wednesday, Mr. Ashok said Mr. Somashekar had taken up several developmental works in Mysuru district ever since he was given the responsibility about 7-8 months ago. Presently, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar is in charge of Chamarajanagar district.  Mr. Ashok said Mr. Somashekar had not only taken the officials into confidence that had facilitated the progress of the developmental projects, he has also struck a chord with BJP leaders and workers in the district, which has given a boost to party activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashoks-pat-for-somashekar/article33245049.ece
04 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Traders’ association not to support Dec. 5 bandh||The Federation of Mysore Traders Association comprising 13 organisations has refused to back the State bandh called on December 5 by pro-Kannada organisations. The bandh has been called to protest the setting up of Maratha Development Authority announced by the Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa and for which Rs. 50 crore has been sanctioned. The trade organisations said they support the cause but cannot support a bandh at this juncture when the economy was just beginning to limp back to normalcy after the prolonged lockdown due to the pandemic. Prashanth of Mysore Travel Association said the tourism and travel industry was the first to be affected by the pandemic-induced lockdown and will be the last to recover. At a time when the sector is witnessing a revival and domestic tourists have started making inquiries, a bandh cannot be supported. Being a weekend, a lot of tourists are expected to Mysuru and it was imperative for the sector to cash in on the domestic tourist footfall. The mere announcement of the bandh has driven away a sizeable section of the visitors who are now keen to visit Ooty and Wayanad instead, said Mr. Prashanth. The Federation said tourism generated direct employment to nearly 60,000 to 80,000 people apart from generating indirect jobs manifold that number. “The entire community is in the doldrums and is yet to recover from the lockdown and hence this bandh cannot be supported’’, it added The members of the Federation said they were all Kannadigas and were supportive of the cause but there are other forms of protest to register their voice and concern and bandh was not the answer. ‘’The loss to the government exchequer will be manifold the amount sanctioned for the Maratha Development Board’’, said the Federation. The members of the Federation include Mysore Travels Association, Hotel Owners Association, Mysuru District Guides Association, Mysuru Region Petroleum Dealers Association, Mysuru District Distributors Association and Devaraj Urs Road Traders Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traders-association-not-to-support-dec-5-bandh/article33245050.ece
04 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Speech and hearing awareness campaign||The Indian Speech, Language and Hearing Association (ISHA) has launched a campaign during December to highlight issues related to communication disorder. A release said the Speech and Hearing Awareness Annuals 2020 will be held till December 15 across the country and the theme is “Speech Language and Hearing - Assets across Lifespan.” There are nearly 100 million people in India with communication impairment but public awareness about communication disorders and the role of audiologists and Speech Language Pathologists in alleviating them is very low, the release added. There is an urgent need to adopt a public health approach to tackling communication disorders by focusing on prevention, screening and early intervention, it added. ISHA is a professional and scientific organisation of Audiologists and Speech Language Pathologists (ASLPs) and its members cater to the needs of those with communication disorder. The campaign also entails recognising and honouring people who overcome communication impairments and have made a mark in their profession or field; conducting talks and panel discussions on various topics for both public and professionals; and conducting a range of competitions for the public. For details regarding the campaign visit https://www.ishaindia.org.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speech-and-hearing-awareness-campaign/article33245043.ece
04 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Preparations in full swing for GP polls in Yadgir||The Yadgir district administration is making preparations to ensure a fair and proper elections to the 119 gram panchayats that will vote in two phases, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said. In a release here on Thursday, Dr. Ragapriya said that preparations are in full swing to ensure a fair and proper elections in the both the phases. She said that election officers and others concerned who have been entrusted with election-related works have been asked to implement the code of conduct strictly. The Deputy Commissioner said that Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma has been appointed as chief of a team of nodal officers to conduct the election process and implementation of the code of conduct. The nodal officers who have been appointed are as follows: Deputy Director of Social Welfare Department Channabasappa for Gurmitkal taluk, District Officer of Minorities Welfare Department Raju for Shahapur taluk, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division Shankargowda Somanal for Yadgir taluk, District Backward Classes Welfare Officer Prabhu Dhore for Hunsagi taluk, Deputy Director of Food and Civil Supplies Mallikarjun for Wadagera taluk and Deputy Director of Women and Child Welfare Department Prabhakar for Surpur taluk, respectively. As many as 1,049 polling booths have been established to choose 2291 members in 119 gram panchayats. Necessary training is being given to 127 election officers and 140 assistant election officers. Information of 5,008 polling booth officers has been collected and 1,776 polling boxes have been prepared, she said. Mustering and de-mustering process and counting will be held at the Government Degree College in Yadgir for Yadgir taluk, Government PU College in Gurmitkal for Gurmitkal taluk, Government High School in Wadagera for Wadagera taluk, Prabhu College in Surpur for Surpur taluk, Government Degree College in Shahapur for Shahapur taluk and Government PU College in Hunsagi for Hunsagi taluk. Ballot papers will be printed taluk-wise. The code of conduct will be in force in gram panchayat areas till December 31, Dr. Ragapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preparations-in-full-swing-for-gp-polls-in-yadgir/article33244935.ece
04 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat in Yadgir on December 19||District and Sessions Judge S. Sridhar has said that a mega Lok Adalat will be conductedin Yadgir on December 19 and appealed to litigant public to make use of it to settle their cases. He was addressing a press conference in Yadgir on Thursday. Mr. Sridhar, who is also chairman of the District Legal Services Authority, said that pending cases in connection with Motor Vehicle Act, land acquisition, electricity, banking, cheque bounce and matrimonial issues will be taken up in the Lok Adalat for amicable settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-in-yadgir-on-december-19/article33244934.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Construction sector rebounds||The construction sector in Mysuru has gained steam and is rebounding towards pre-COVID level of activity, fuelled by consumer demand for housing. This is also reflected in the return of the migrant workers with specialisation in areas such as tile-laying, carpentry, and painting and they are in high demand. Though the days following the lockdown announced on March 25 weres fraught with uncertainty and the sector went into a tailspin with the exit of the workers, the situation is almost nearing normal, according to most stakeholders. “There is no shortage of labour and material as far as the construction sector is concerned and we are witnessing a strong revival’’, said R. Ravindra Bhat of the Builders Association of India and founder of Foundations Ltd., a housing and apartment construction firm in the city. He said the activity is also fuelled by the continuing demand for housing ranging from luxury segment to the budget category units and this has shored up the sector faster than it was imagined earlier. Many of the builders had offered a rebate ranging from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh which helped create a surge in demand for ready-to-occupy apartments and for early bookings. This was before and during the festival season and has since been withdrawn as the consumer and the market sentiment has been lifted, Mr. Bhat said. The inventory of unsold housing apartments of the builders has steadily dropped during the last few months, indicating that sales have picked up, Mr. Bhat added. N. Subramanya of the BAI said many of the skilled labourers are so preoccupied with completion of the pending work that builders find it difficult to engage them in new projects. “Though this may indicate a labour shortage, it also underlines the fact that workers are continuously engaged and the newcomers are almost immediately being absorbed by the sector’’, Mr. Subramanya added. The development is also an indicator of the near-normalcy reached in the supply chain mechanism. Stakeholders pointed out that the construction sector revolves around regular supply of material including cement, iron and steel, sanitary fittings, tiles, electrical fittings etc all of which have to be readily available and a shortage of one element can hold up projects. That new projects are being launched is an indicator of the confidence in the restoration of the supply chain mechanism. That the early days of the pandemic and the gloom surrounding it during March-April and May is a thing of the past is borne out by the recent auction of stray and corner sites by the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA). It auctioned 170 sites and accrued Rs. 115.6 crore. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajiv avers the willingness of the end-users to invest or buy sites for residential and commercial purpose in auction is another indicator of the construction and real estate sector approaching near-normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/construction-sector-rebounds/article33245046.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police question people who gave ransom to abductors||The Kolar police questioned Nayaz and his brother Siraj, who allegedly handed over some part of the ransom demanded by the abductors of former Kolar MLA R. Varthur Prakash. Prakash and his driver were allegedly abducted from near his farmhouse when they were returning home on November 25. The gang, comprising eight people, forced them into their car. The duo were allegedly assaulted and tortured by the gang who were demanding a ransom of Rs. 30 crore. The former MLA reportedly arranged for his friend Nayaz to give them Rs. 48 lakh, but the gang refused to release the duo. It was only after the driver Sunil escaped that they set Prakash free and left him in an open field near Hoskote on November 29. ‘Was close to Prakash’ Nayaz, a cattle trader, told the police that he was close to Prakash and they had a business venture. Nayaz said that Prakash called him asking for Rs. 50 lakh to be given to people he knew and it was an emergency. Nayaz conveyed the message to his brother Siraj, who handed over Rs. 40 lakh to the people near a coffee shop in Narasapura. The police have recorded the statement and are verifying CCTV footage to identify the abductors. The police are yet to question Prakash. A senior police officer said there are many loose ends in the narration of the incident. The police are waiting to question Sunil who is recovering in a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-question-people-who-gave-ransom-to-abductors/article33245269.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Release funds for Indira Canteens’||For the past several months, bills of contractors operating the 198 Indira Canteens in the city have not been cleared. Taking serious objection, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has shot off a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He has alleged that the BJP was trying to scuttle the welfare scheme by not releasing funds on time, making it difficult for the local bodies to clear bills of contractors. The Siddaramaiah government was responsible for setting up the canteens in Bengaluru in August 2017. Since then, thousands of citizens, especially those belonging to lower socio-economic groups, depend on the canteens for breakfast, lunch and dinner, which is made available at a subsidised cost. The new tenders for the 198 canteens came into effect in August this year. As per the new tenders, the government subsidy for three meals has come down from Rs. 37 to Rs. 30. With funds not being released to the BBMP, which manages the canteens, bills have not been cleared. Mr. Siddaramaiah has pointed out that water connections to many canteens and 12 kitchens had been cut. “Maintenance and operating the 198 canteens in the city, and the others across the State, will not cost more than Rs. 250 crore. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, many people have lost jobs and are struggling for their livelihood. They are dependent on Indira Canteens for their sustenance,” he said and pointed out attempts made to change the name of the canteens. He urged Mr. Yediyurappa to release funds and help run the canteens in the interest of the poor and needy in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/release-funds-for-indira-canteens-siddaramaiah/article33245267.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||To bring in more tourists||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/to-bring-in-more-tourists/article33245419.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drug peddler arrested||The Central Crime Branch police have arrested a drug peddler who was allegedly sourcing LSD from the dark net and peddling it in the city.  Native of Kerala The accused, Robin, is a native of Kerala. He is reportedly an expert in the dark net and has connections with international drug peddlers. Got them by courier Using these contacts, he would purchase drugs from Netherlands and get them to India through courier. Robin was peddling drugs in the city mainly to college students and employees of private firms. He was produced before a magistrate. The police obtained his custody for further investigation. Police suspect that Robin is part of a bigger racket spread across the southern States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-peddler-arrested/article33245268.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||One for the album||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-for-the-album/article33245271.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Paying tributes||kanaka photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paying-tributes/article33245048.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drug peddler arrested||The Central Crime Branch police have arrested a drug peddler who was allegedly sourcing LSD from the dark net and peddling it in the city. The accused, Robin, is a native of Kerala. He has connections with international drug peddlers. Using these contacts, he would purchase drugs from Netherlands and get them to India through courier. Robin was peddling drugs mainly to college students and employees of private firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-peddler-arrested/article33245051.ece
04 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||UDF keen on status quo, LDF on change||It is a battle to continue and end dominance. While the United Democratic Front (UDF) sees it as an opportunity to stamp its dominance on the Chengannur municipality, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is doing all it can to end the UDF’s rule and wrest the civic body. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which won six seats in 2015, is hoping to improve its tally and make life difficult for the two fronts. In the past last one-and-a-half decades, the UDF virtually ruled the roost in the civic body. They sat in the Opposition for only a small period during this time and won back-to-back elections in 2010 and 2015. The UDF believes the ‘corruption-free’ rule of the last 10 years will deliver it a thumping victory in the 2020 elections. It is also highlighting development works carried out during the last five years to win votes. Two chairpersons The civic body had two chairpersons in the last five years. John M. Thomas and K. Shiburajan, both Congress members, shared the post of chairperson for a period of four years and one year respectively as per an internal agreement. In the final days of the council, two members of the Kerala Congress (M) Jose K. Mani faction shifted allegiance to the LDF. The UDF is contesting in 26 of the 27 wards this election. Nomination papers of one of its candidates was rejected during scrutiny. The LDF, on the other hand, has unleashed a slew of campaigns against the UDF’s rule in its bid to wrest the municipality. KC(M) factor It is also banking on the good works of the State government and Saji Cherian, MLA. The entry of the Mani faction is expected to give the LDF a boost. However, it is to be seen whether the issues within the front over the seat-sharing would adversely impact its fortunes. The BJP considers it a prestige contest and is conducting a well-planned campaign with the aim of winning as many seats as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-keen-on-status-quo-ldf-on-change/article33245010.ece
04 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||408 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 408 COVID-19 cases and 537 recoveries on Thursday. It also recorded six COVID-19-related deaths. Of the new cases, as many as 381 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection of another 26 people remains undetected. One person who came from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,777. In Kottayam, the number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise at a rapid rate, with 337 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. All but six contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 35 children and 54 persons aged above 60 years. With 38 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery with 13 cases. With 377 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,919 active cases while 10,903 persons are under observation. The district has reported 36,954 cases so far and of this, 31,935 have recovered. As many as 317 persons tested positive for SARS- CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of the new cases, 304 persons contracted the virus through local transmission and of this, the contact source of 62 persons were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta reported 22 cases, followed by Adoor with 20 cases. Meanwhile, two more COVID-19 patients in the district died due to co-morbidity, taking the total number of deaths in connection with the pandemic to 128. The deceased were identified as a 70-year-old Pathanamthitta native and a 62-year-old woman from Adoor. With 128 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,360 active cases. 285 cases in Kollam Kollam district reported 285 new COVID-19 cases, seven deaths and 332 recoveries on Thursday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 282 contact cases, one person who had travelled from another State, and two cases with no known source. The district currently has 15,033 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,72,729. On Thursday, 1,936 persons completed home quarantine. At present the number of active cases in Kollam is 3,995.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, and Kollam bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/408-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article33245014.ece
04 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||When campaigning and work go hand in hand||For many, becoming a candidate and engaging in electioneering means a break from their profession. But, M.K. Sibu, a candidate in the Vadakumkara Kshethram ward (Ward 8) of the Chennam-Pallippuram grama panchayat, is using his vocation as a coconut plucker to solicit votes. With only a few days left for the local body polls, the 48-year-old is mixing coconut-plucking and campaigning to good effect. He says that the election campaign and work can go hand in hand. “I have been a coconut plucker for the past 30 years. It is my bread and butter. I never paused doing my work. After deciding to contest the elections, I stopped working outside in order to concentrate more on the Vadakumkara Kshetram ward. As usual, I am visiting houses and farmlands in the ward and plucking coconuts. After completing the job and receiving the wages, these days I make an additional request of seeking votes from the family members,” says Mr. Sibu, who had twice won the grama panchayat election on the Communist Party of India (Marxist) ticket. Four hours He is, however, contesting as an Independent candidate this time after the party denied him the ticket. He does the tree climbing-cum-election campaign for around four hours in the mornings. “These days my job as coconut tree climber is serving two purposes — earning livelihood and electioneering. The role of a politician is to serve the people of the community, but it doesn’t mean you should not do any other work. Everyone should earn their own living,” he says. Mr. Sibu was elected twice from the Vadakumkara Kshethram ward, a red bastion, in 2005 and 2010 with a thumping majority. With the party not on his side this time, he is facing an uphill task. The CPI(M) has fielded Sudheesh T.S. from the seat. Two other candidates — Biju of the Congress and P.V. Viswambaran, an Independent — are also seeking people’s mandate from the ward. Mr. Sibu, however, exudes confidence of winning the election, albeit with a smaller majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-campaigning-and-work-go-hand-in-hand/article33245031.ece
04 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Congress leader Jayaprakash dead||Senior Congress leader C.R. Jayaprakash died on Thursday. He was 72. Mr. Jayaprakash, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in a hospital in Kollam, tested negative for the disease on Wednesday. He breathed his last in the early hours of Thursday. A native of Kareelakulangara, near Kayamkulam, he was former chairman of Kayamkulam municipality. In a political career spanning several decades, Mr. Jayaprakash held various positions in the Congress party including Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary, Alappuzha District Congress Committee president, and United Democratic Front (UDF) district chairman. He had contested in Assembly polls from Aroor and Kayamkulam constituencies. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy; Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala; UDF convener M.M. Hassan; Kodikunnil Suresh, MP; A.M. Ariff, MP; and U. Prathibha, MLA, condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-leader-jayaprakash-dead/article33245012.ece
04 December 2020||ATTINGAL,KERALA||LDF canvassing hard to retain Attingal||On a narrow bylane near the Ayilam road, away from the loud campaigning in the main thoroughfares, the outgoing Attingal municipal chairman M. Pradeep and other Left Democratic Front (LDF) workers are quietly making their way from one house to the next in the morning. They are by now familiar in these parts, having completed three rounds of campaigning for the civic elections. “Five years ago, we used to have large groups for door-to-door campaigning. Now after COVID-19, this is safer. We are focussing most on small neighbourhoods, family meetings with around 20 people, where we explain to the people what we have done in the past 15 years and what we are planning to do. The people also know what we have done,” says Mr. Pradeep. At ACAC Nagar, P. Unnikrishnan, Kodumon ward candidate of the United Democratic Front (UDF), and his men are at the fag end of their forenoon campaign. Having successfully contested here four times, he is confident of winning again. “You need not have come again. We will anyway vote for you,” an old woman tells him. “Still, I have to do what I am supposed to do. We will regain power this time. The BJP will do even worse than in 2015,” he says.  Strong ties In front of a tea shop at the Kunnath ward, BJP candidate M. Divakaran is using the break to canvas for some votes. He returned to his native place just two-and-half years ago from abroad and has been active in social work since then. “Even during my long tenure in Kuwait, I used to visit here at least twice a year. So, I have always been in touch with the people here. The BJP is certain of improving its tally,” he says.   The widening of the NH-66 stretch from Poovanpara to Moonnumukku is currently progressing. For long, it has been a poll issue, but now it is a race to take credit for the work that has begun. While the LDF points at the completion of the land acquisition process, the UDF claims that things took off only after its MP, Adoor Prakash, took charge last year. The BJP claims that it is the Narendra Modi government which has finally gone ahead with the project. Along with the local issues, the many political controversies in the State and the national level are very much part of the campaign noise here. In the past four decades, the LDF has lost the municipality only once, when the UDF won in 2000. In 2015, it won 22 seats in the 31-member council. The UDF was reduced to five and the BJP put up an improved show, winning four seats. The three fronts have retained some of the candidates who they think have some influence with the local populace. The UDF and the BJP are banking on possible anti-incumbency after an unbroken 15-year tenure, but the LDF hopes its performance, which won it many awards, would see it through.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-canvassing-hard-to-retain-attingal/article33245507.ece
04 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Her poll symbol is her livelihood too||For Usha Vijayan chenda serves two purposes. It is a livelihood as well as the poll symbol for her. She is a chenda artist in a shinkarimelam troupe and a United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate contesting on chenda symbol. At Kudayathur Junction, one can hear the sound of the percussion instrument. Ms. Vijayan and her campaign team are slowly approaching. One may not immediately comprehend why a woman is beating chenda . She stops for a while and seek the blessings of voters there. Notices with chenda symbol are distributed and the team moves on to another junction. Shinkarimelam When chenda was allotted as the election symbol of the P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress(M), Ms. Vijayan, part of a Kudumbashree shinkarimelam troupe, thought she could use it as a medium to enter the heart of the electorate. This is the fourth time she is contesting from Ward 7 of the Kudayathur grama panchayat in Idukki. She had won thrice from the same seat earlier. “Voters enjoy chendamelam in my election campaign. I hope my message through this medium easily reaches them. Our shinkarimelam troupe, Sree Mookambika, is familiar at festivals and private functions and I’m part of it for the past seven years,” Ms Vijayan says. 15-member troupe She says she is the only one contesting the polls from her 15-member troupe. “They also come to my support,” she says and adds that most of them are from her own ward. “With no festivities in view of the restrictions imposed following the pandemic outbreak, I can sense people responding when the beating sound of the chenda is heard,” Ms Vijayan says. The candidate hopes that chenda as a medium and election symbol will fetch her dividends.  Voters enjoy chendamelam in my election campaign. I hope my message through this medium easily reaches them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/her-poll-symbol-is-her-livelihood-too/article33245006.ece
04 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam shutters unlikely to be opened||The water level in the Idukki reservoir was 2,392.58 ft on Thursday. The full reserve level is 2,403 ft. An official of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said that there was only a remote chance of opening the dam shutters in case of a heavy rainfall following Cyclone Burevi. It needed continuous rainfall for at least five days for the water to reach the red alert level as per the new rule curve. The KSEB had planned to increase power generation to avoid opening of the dam shutters. However, out of the six generators, only three are in working condition at the Moolamattom power station. The Idukki dam is mainly reserved for power generation in summer season to meet the demand of the peak consumption period. The authorities hope that the generators would be repaired by then. The storage level in the main hydel dams are: Idukki (88%), Pamba (85%), Sholayar (96%), Idamalayar (83%), Kundala (94%), Mattupetty (91%), Kuttiady (68%), Thariyode (79%), Anayirankal (98%), Ponmudi (79%), Neriamangalam (59%), Peringalkuthu (49%) and Lower Periyar (62%). District Collector H. Dinesan has banned all tourism activities including off-road driving, adventure tourism, boating and trekking till Saturday. Travelling from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. to high ranges is also suspended, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-dam-shutters-unlikely-to-be-opened/article33245007.ece
04 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Collector for vigil against COVID spread||Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla has urged the public to be more vigilant against the spread of COVID-19 in the wake of rising positive cases even in tribal hamlets. Unnecessary visits to tribal hamlets will not be permitted, and poll campaigners should show more responsibility in this regard. Of the 1,570 active cases reported in the district on Thursday, close to 500 positive cases were in tribal hamlets, she said. A meeting chaired by Ms. Abdulla decided to deploy police personnel in tribal hamlets that were classified as containment zones. She directed health and tribal development officials to organise regular medical check-ups in all tribal hamlets under the supervision of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Ms. Abdulla has also directed officials to monitor the situation in major tourism destinations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-for-vigil-against-covid-spread/article33244968.ece
04 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Govt. projects mired in corruption: Chandy||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said that all development projects of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government were mired in nepotism or corruption. Speaking to mediapersons here on Thursday, Mr. Chandy said the government was planning to continue with their mistakes and threatening Opposition leaders who brought the mistakes to their notice. It was the first time that a State government in the country had repealed within 24 hours an ordinance that it had promulgated, said Mr. Chandy. He termed as baseless the recent allegations against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in the bar bribery scam. Farmers’ agitation The ruling style of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were similar, said Mr. Chandy, adding that the silence of Mr. Modi in the wake of the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi proved that there was nothing in favour of the farmers in the recent Bills passed by the Central government. He alleged that major projects launched by the UDF government for the overall development of Wayanad such as the Nilambur-Nanjangud railway project, setting up of a government medical college and the construction of alternative roads to the district were sabotaged by the LDF government. The government had also failed to address various issues of tribespeople and farmers in the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-projects-mired-in-corruption/article33244967.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A veteran watches poll scene with content||Nearly four decades after walking away from an active public life leaving her stamp, among other things, as the first-ever woman panchayat president in the State, Annamma Jacob, now 84, regrets nothing. Watching the hustle and bustle of the election campaign nonchalantly from her son’s home at Oonnukal, along the eastern border of the district, Ms. Jacob bemoans the surfeit of politics in governance. “Conscience is missing from public life and it is all politics, no matter who wins,” observed the octogenarian. Having served as the member of Kavalangad panchayat for 21 years, 11 of it as the president, long before the reservation for women in local bodies kicked in, Ms. Jacob can afford to mount that moral high horse. Youngest member She was first nominated as a member of Kavalangad panchayat, the biggest in the district area-wise, in 1963 and was shortly elected vice-president when she was 25 years and just 90 days into delivering her son. She was the youngest member of that local body and remains only one of the two surviving members of that governing committee. Then a political turn of events saw her getting elected as the president of the panchayat defeating a formidable Marxist leader in 1968 where she continued till 1979. In the elections held that year, she contested as an Independent backed by the Left and the Antony faction of the Congress and romped home with the biggest margin of majority in the district, stripping the opponent from the Congress (I) of his deposit. She chose to quit the scene by the time of the next election as she found the electoral arena too political to her liking. Proud family The rigours of being a people’s representative meant that she often had to be away from her three young children, including two daughters, who largely abhorred the panchayat that took their mother away often. That her husband late M.J. Jacob had to accompany her on longer trips to Thiruvananthapuram for matters of governance didn’t help them either. “There were times when we had wished the panchayat office to simply collapse so that our mother will no longer have to go there,” chuckled her son Benny Jacob, a retired professor who is now the principal of a private college. But now her children realise that their mother could lay claim to many feats that few women of her era could and are proud of it. “The PHC she brought has developed into a hospital with an outpatient wing. She started two schools and brought power to the nearby Kuttamangalam village among other things,” said Mr. Jacob swelling with pride. Ms. Jacob, who stays healthy, seems content leaving behind that legacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-veteran-watches-poll-scene-with-content/article33245383.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fire force braces for Cyclone Burevi||The Fire and Rescue Services Department remains fully geared up to meet the potential fallout of Cyclone Burevi in Idukki and Ernakulam districts. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Regional Fire Officer K.K. Shiju said that the entire manpower and equipment of the department remained completely mobilised in both the districts. Leave and off of fire personnel remain suspended in view of the emergency. Nearly 1,000 employees have been kept ready for action in 26 fire and rescue stations across the two districts. Equipment ranging from chainsaw, concrete cutter, demolition hammers, etc. have been refurbished and organised to be pulled into action any time in the wake of any potential damage caused by the cyclone. Every single fire station in Ernakulam has a raft with an additional five in the Gandhi Nagar station to face any potential flooding in the heavy rain likely to accompany the cyclone. Besides, there are 10 rubber dinghies with outboard engines. The department has set up ham radio control rooms connecting fire stations in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Idukki and Ernakulam districts to overcome any potential communication breaks in the wake of the cyclone.  Civil defence force The department has also mobilised its considerable civil defence force members attached to every fire station as the first line of defence and to assist department personnel. Every station has a minimum of 50 trained civil defence members who can be activated through a simple message in relevant WhatsApp groups. The two districts account for nearly 1300 civil defence members. Fire force personnel now work in batches of seven-day cycles in compliance with COVID protocol. However, if the situation so demands, everyone will be summoned irrespective of their shift cycles. Ernakulam District Fire Officer A.S. Jogy also attended the press conference in which the department’s diverse equipment were displayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-force-braces-for-cyclone-burevi/article33245381.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Campaign reaches final lap in Aluva||The campaign for the Aluva Municipality has reached the final lap as the United Democratic Front (LDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) continue to woo voters with promises on the civic body’s overall infrastructure development. The Congress, which is contesting all the 26 wards, exuded confidence of retaining the council despite facing rebel menace in a few wards. M.O. John, senior Congress leader, said that the front would come up with a development paradigm in tune with the Aluva’s status as a metro city. “It’s the Congress party alone that is having its candidates in all the wards and it will prove advantageous for us. We will ensure the cooperation of the MLA and MP representing Aluva in the Assembly and Lok Sabha respectively by seeking their funds for the development of the region,” he said. On the development plank, Mr. John said that his party would combine development and ecological conservation while rolling out various projects. “Aluva’s heritage as a place rich with natural resources will be retained. The party will have programmes aimed at the beautification of Aluva by conserving water and other rich resources,” he said. Rajeev Zacharia, Opposition leader representing the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said that their campaign focussed on the twin theme of change and growth of Aluva. “The modernisation of the Aluva market, which had hit a standstill during the UDF rule, will be completed within one year. We will set up at-source treatment plants to process waste generating from shops in the market,” he said. LDF campaign The Left front has highlighted the need for promoting organic farming in its manifesto. It will come up with a project for setting up vegetable farms to provide pesticide-free vegetables to people in all wards. The renovation of the municipal town halls and children’s park also figure among the promises given by the CPI(M)-led Left front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-reaches-final-lap-in-aluva/article33245460.ece
04 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Revelations highly sensitive: Customs||The revelations made by P.S. Sarith and Swapna Suresh in the foreign currency smuggling case “are extremely sensitive and invite threat to their life,” according to the Customs. It was while seeking the extension of the remand of the accused on Thursday that the agency revealed the sensitive nature of the statements given by the accused. Sandeep and Swapna had made allegations against some foreign nationals who were involved in the case. The passport, travel details, location and duration of their stay in India and persons with whom they interacted while staying in India were being identified to assess the nature of visit and validate the claims made by them in the statement, the agency submitted before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam.  The court allowed the extension of remand till December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revelations-highly-sensitive-customs/article33245036.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Election e-directory published||The District Information Office has brought out a local body election-related e-directory featuring all contacts, including those of returning officers and election observers, besides basic information pertaining to each ward in local bodies in Ernakulam. District Collector S. Suhas released the directory by handing it over to District Information Officer B. Sethuraj. The directory is available athttps://online.pubhtml5. com/mepq/jwaj/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-e-directory-published/article33245377.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cusat bags U.S. patent for software research||Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has received its first patent from the United States for software research. Philip Samuel, Professor and Head of the Department of Computer Science, and Renu George, Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Engineering, College of Engineering, Chengannur, received patent from the US Patent and Trademark Office for their invention ‘Bytecode generation from UML Models’. The patent is for the invention of a novel method to convert software design directly to executable bytecode without writing a computer programme, according to an official release. The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is the de-facto standard for modelling and design of software. The research focuses on generating code in high-level languages like Java, and it provides an approach that generates low-level executable bytecode directly from UML models, bypassing the need for a programming language, the release said. Relevance Dr. Samuel and Ms. Renu George said that their invention had great relevance in the software industry, as it relieved the programmer from the tedious task of coding design models. Hence, the time and cost involved in generating a software product can be reduced considerably. It will be a major step towards fifth-generation programming languages, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-bags-us-patent-for-software-research/article33245380.ece
04 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Top global ranking for artists linked to Biennale||Artists Bose Krishnamachari, president of the Kochi Biennale Foundation (KBF), and Shubigi Rao, curator of the forthcoming edition of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale getting under way in November 2021, have figured 85th on ArtReview’s latest list of Power 100. The annual ranking features the most influential figures in the art world. A release on Thursday said Power 100 tracks what or who is influencing art that is being made today. It seeks to highlight what is going on in the art world and who is providing it with momentum. “I am honoured that Shubigi Rao and I have been included in ArtReview’s Power 100 list this year, one which has been incredibly challenging for all of us in the arts sector... This honour is a testament to the hard work and sacrifice of many people,” Mr. Krishnamachari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/top-global-ranking-for-artists-linked-to-biennale/article33245376.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Proliferation of candidates in Thrikkakara municipality||The two leading political fronts facing elections in Thrikkakara municipality are unruffled by the proliferation of candidates in the contest with several of the wards seeing six and seven-cornered contests. Only ward 5, Kollamkudimugal, will see a straight contest between Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates. Congress party block president Naushad Pallechi said that the large number of candidates in the fray did not pose any threat to the UDF. He claimed that the current political atmosphere favoured UDF candidates. Senior CPI(M) leader M.E. Hassainar said that elections to local bodies was a time when everybody tested their public support and the large number of contestants was not a cause for worry. The Model Engineering College ward, Edachira, Kunnathuchira and Olikkuzhi will see seven-cornered contests in the upcoming elections. 43 wards The municipality has 43 wards and the NDA alliance has candidates in 39 wards. Former municipal chairpersons Shaji Vazhakkala and P.I. Mohammedali of the UDF and Usha Praveen of the LDF are among the prominent contestants. The Thrikkakara Jana Munnettam, an independent group, has fielded its own candidates in 34 wards and will support Independents in other wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proliferation-of-candidates-in-thrikkakara-municipality/article33245453.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||441 infections, 770 recoveries||Ernakulam on Thursday recorded 441 new COVID-19 cases while 770 patients recovered. Ninety-five of the new infections could not be traced to a source. There were six health workers among the newly infected. Edathala recorded 28 new cases, Thrikkakara, 21, Eloor 18 and Udayamperoor and Kalady 13 each. New admissions to hospitals/FLTCs were 91, while 83 were discharged. As many as 1,952 people were brought on the surveillance radar, taking the total number to 27,251.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/441-infections-770-recoveries/article33245384.ece
04 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Two more of gang arrested||The Aluva East police arrested two more persons who were allegedly part of an armed gang that descended on Aluva with plans to pull off a theft. The arrested are Ummar, 50, of Ottapalam and Sitharasan, 27, of Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu. They were nabbed from near the overbridge adjacent to the KSRTC bus stand. Both have multiple theft cases against them in various police stations across the State. Two others were arrested last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-of-gang-arrested/article33245385.ece
04 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bishops warn against religious disharmony||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) has alleged that social media are being used to defame and abuse religious leaders. The situation is such that the State's religious harmony is under threat. Kerala has been known and congratulated for its religious harmony. However, social media postings of late tend to be abusive of religious leaders, said a statement issued by the KCBC here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bishops-warn-against-religious-disharmony/article33245019.ece
04 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS calls off Mannam Jayanthi fete||Taking into consideration the COVID-19 situation in the State, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has cancelled the 144th Mannam Jayanthi celebrations which were slated to be held at its headquarters on January 1 and 2, 2021. Instead, the organisation will observe the birth anniversary of its founding father Mannathu Padmanabhan on January 2. “It has been decided to observe the birth anniversary in full compliance with the COVID-19 protocol,” said G. Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-calls-off-mannam-jayanthi-fete/article33245020.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Door-to-door campaign in full swing in Kozhikode||With multi-colour placards and artistically designed leaflets, the door-to-door election campaign by candidates is in full swing now in Kozhikode district. A majority of candidates have completed two rounds of house visits as earlier planned by their campaign managers to directly interact with voters. Considering time constraints for a final round, active youth campaigners have been roped in to continue the field-level circulation of printed campaign materials and request votes. And, most such campaigners are getting a warm welcome with the declining COVID-19 scare among the public. “Now, voters and campaigners are equally aware of the new normal and the protocol to be followed for safety. There is no big scare now to interrupt any healthy campaign,” said Sreeja, a youth campaigner within the Kozhikode Corporation limits. She added that her team was also keen on carrying hand sanitisers and sharing them with voters during campaigns. The third phase, according to leaders of various youth organisations, is mostly focussed on elderly voters and those who remain disconnected from social media. As the existing COVID-19 protocol is not that much liberal for interactions with senior citizens, they are trying their very best to make it with the support of young members of families. Outdoor campaign However, outdoor campaign is seemingly tough for many in some wards, where influential rebels are in the fray, challenging leading fronts. Though minor clashes have been part of the game since the beginning over disfiguring of posters and other outdoor campaign materials, no major incidents of violence have been found hitting the pace of electioneering even in politically-sensitive areas. Considering the pandemic situation, campaigners are also keen on keeping a record of infected voters and reaching out to them in the best possible manner. For those who are not interested in using postal ballots, there will be ward-level arrangements for safe pick-and-drop services. “Now, we mostly depend on phones to contact voters who undergo treatment for COVID-19. Many are expected to cast vote using postal ballots,” said Anagha Narikkuni, a young candidate in the fray from Atholi. She added that election committees were looking into the other required arrangements for those who wish to cast vote directly at polling stations after 5 p.m.  Now, voters and campaigners are equally aware of the new normal and the protocol to be followed for safety Sreeja Youth campaigner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/door-to-door-campaign-in-full-swing-in-kozhikode/article33244966.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||547 fresh cases in Kozhikode||As many as 547 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Thursday and 629 others were cured of the infection in the district. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, there were 516 cases of locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 21 cases. The number of samples sent for lab tests was 5,843. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of local transmission cases at 135, Kunnamangalam had 28, Thamarassery 23, Puthuppady 21, and Meppayyur 20. The active caseload in the district dropped to 6,148. Three deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday. In Malappuram Malappuram district saw 714 fresh COVID-19 cases and 764 recoveries on Thursday. While 690 persons contracted the disease through local contacts, there were eight cases without an identifiable source of infection. Among the new cases are six health workers and 10 persons who came from outside the State. As many as 7,536 people are currently under treatment in Malappuram. In Wayanad A total of 238 people, including a health worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,570. All the patients were infected through local contacts and the source of infection in 15 cases could not be traced, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. As many as 98 people recovered on the day. There are 9,145 people under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/547-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article33244962.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Cyberpark forges ahead||Undeterred by the COVID-19 outbreak, the Government Cyberpark at Kozhikode is moving ahead of the pack by hosting newer IT companies and drawing up plans for a smooth sail for years to come. During the lockdown and its aftermath, four leading IT companies have made their entry to its special economic zone, taking the number of active companies to 24. Six more new companies are gearing up to start operations in over five months after furnishing the allotted space. Within a year, authorities hope to have 46 companies on the campus. Though many established firms are now opting for decentralised functioning and work-from-home as part of cost cutting, their hunt for a small but classy office space for administrative affairs continue and the Cyberpark fit the bill. The latest offers declared by the government, including waiver of rental for available space, has stood the Cyberpark in good stead in wooing start-ups. “We are planning to create small office space as well from next year to welcome more start-ups and branches of established companies. About 50,000 sq ft of built-up space on the third floor of the Sahya IT building will be split into 30 units as part of the plan,” says C. Nireesh, General Manager, Government Cyberpark, Kozhikode. He says it will be affordable to companies in need of 500 to 1,500 sq ft space.  Now, there are about 250 employees who turn up on a regular basis for work at the park. The actual strength, which stood at 750 before the lockdown, has been reduced to a manageable figure with the cooperation of companies to meet the COVID-19 protocol. However, the companies have not reduced the already leased out space with hopes to stage a comeback once the COVID-19 outbreak subsides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-cyberpark-forges-ahead/article33245034.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kallamala: much ado about nothing||To get a bad press over seat-sharing is not too new in any polls in Kerala. And for that matter, it has invariably attracted the Congress party. For almost a week after the last date of withdrawal of nominations ended, the Kallamala division in the Vadakara block panchayat became a bone of contention between Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran and K. Muraleedhraan, MP. The issue even created some ripples in the party at the State-level. The controversy over Kallamala began after Mr. Ramachandran nominated his protégé and local leader K.P. Jayakumar for the seat after the Congress-led United Democratic Front in alliance with the Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) fielded a common candidate, C. Sugathan, to take on the CPI(M) contestant. Both candidates commenced electioneering even as the Congress senior leaders adamantly stuck to their stand. In the last polls, the CPI(M) had won the seat while the Congress emerged victorious in 2010. After wrangling over the issue, Mr. Ramachandran on Thursday agreed to withdraw his nominee. He wanted the Congress to contest the seat because he felt that it is an emotional issue as it is his native place. Also the party has been contesting the seat for several times. Now the Congress candidate will have to do another door-to-door canvassing just to reverse his campaigning work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kallamala-much-ado-about-nothing/article33245018.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IISR bags national award for organic farming initiatives||A committee of All India Network Project on Organic Farming (AI-NPOF) has selected the Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR), Kozhikode, as the best centre in the country for its efforts in the development of organic farming technologies and the successful experimentation and promotion of organic farming in Kerala. The IISR grabbed the accolade by competing with 19 institutes from different agro-economic zones for the year 2019-2020. According to IISR officials, the institute has been part of the network projects on organic farming since 2012, to promote organic farming culture in association with various research institutions. According to the award committee, one of the significant achievements of the IISR was its contribution to the geo-tagged characterisation of 190 organic growers. The package of practices introduced for the promotion of spices cultivation was another feat, it said in an official communication. To start the model scheme, a one-acre spread integrated organic farm with crops such as coconut trees, turmeric, banana, cow pea, fodder grass, and azola had been set up on the IISR’s Chelavoor campus. Officials said that the institute had also bought two Holstein Friesian cows, apart from two other indigenous breeds for the successful practice and demonstration of integrated farming techniques. They said efforts were also made for regular sale of farm fresh milk and other food crops, which also helped in generating a satisfactory income. According to official records, the profit from the small agriculture venture during the assessment period was Rs. 1.3 lakh. Apart from implementing a model project, the role played by the institute in popularising organic farming initiatives among farming communities and various other self-help groups was adjudged the best by the award committee. Its efforts in the successful demonstration of organic turmeric cultivation with the support of various women’s self-help groups and backward community members also were highlighted.  A major achievement is its contribution to the geo-tagged characterisation of 190 organic growers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iisr-bags-national-award-for-organic-farming-initiatives/article33244965.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beaches, parks to open from today||Beaches and public parks in Kozhikode district will be thrown open to the public while maintaining COVID protocol from Friday. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said on Thursday that notice boards explaining the dos and don’ts would be placed in all the places and compliance would be ensured. The areas will be cleaned at regular intervals. People with COVID-19 symptoms would not be allowed entry and wearing of face masks and observance of physical distancing will be made mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beaches-parks-to-open-from-today/article33244964.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IMHANS to observe 38th anniversary||The Kozhikode-based Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS), which has emerged as a major healthcare institution in the State in recent times, is observing its 38th anniversary on December 4. According to a release, the institute was launched adjacent to the Government Mental Health Centre, Kozhikode, in 1982. At present, it is functioning near the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. The IMHANS has separate outpatient facilities for children and adults and family counselling. Special attention is paid to the mental health of women and teenagers. It is also conducting studies and awareness sessions. In 2011, the institution was honoured by the Union government as a ‘Centre of Excellence’. Sources said the services of psychiatrists, psychiatric social workers, clinical psychologists, special educators, speech therapists, occupational therapists, and early interventionists were being provided under one roof. The anniversary celebrations will be opened by Sankar Mahadevan, member of the Rehabilitation Council of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/imhans-to-observe-38th-anniversary/article33244963.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cong. seeks more Central agencies to probe graft||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran has sought the deployment of more Central agencies to investigate corruption charges in the State. However, he alleged that such a thing would never happen, as the BJP and the CPI(M) had reached an understanding against such a step. “If the Central agencies are given a free hand to investigate cases, the truth behind allegations will come to light,” he said. The Congress leader was addressing a face-to-face programme organised by the Calicut Press Club on Thursday. Mr. Ramachandran also accused Minister for Finance T.M. Thomas Isaac of trying to undermine the functioning of the Privileges and Ethics Committee of the Assembly. “If Dr. Isaac had any political propriety, he should resign,” Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-seeks-more-central-agencies-to-probe-graft/article33244959.ece
04 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||PFI stages protest against ED raids||Activist of the Popular Front of India (PFI) staged a protest against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) carrying out raids at the State committee office of the organisation at Meenchanda in Kozhikode city and at the residence of its national executive committee member P. Koya at Karanthur on Thursday. Over a hundred PFI activists had gathered in front of the office and at the residence of the office bearer while the ED officials carried out the raids from morning till evening. The protesters raised slogans against the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pfi-stages-protest-against-ed-raids/article33244960.ece
04 December 2020||NEDUMANGAD,KERALA||Tantalising finish likely in Nedumangad municipality||Poovathoor, a sleepy hamlet in Nedumangad municipality that adjoins Vembayam grama panchayat, presents an uneventful picture that is devoid of any trappings of an election only a week away. Barring the numerous banners and flex boards of candidates that dot the streets, the new normal of electioneering is replete with the absence of shrill mike announcements. And the town appears insulated itself from the poll fever. Such sights are, however, just a facade covering a fierce electoral contest that is headed for a tantalising finish in Nedumangad which has been a stronghold of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for two-and-a-half decades. Poovathoor is one of five wards – Tharatta, Manakode, Market and Perayathumkonam being the others - in the 39-seat municipality that will have sitting councillors competing against each other. Besides, it will witness a triangular contest among political heavyweights. CPI’s Lekha Vikraman, who was vice chairperson in the outgoing municipal council, hopes to maintain her seat by braving a stiff challenge posed by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee executive committee member Vattappara Chandran, a six-time councillor who was also part of the founding council in 1980, and Bharatiya Janata Party State council member Poovathoor Jayan. While she bets heavily on her efforts in renovating a school and a primary health centre nearby besides water supply and infrastructure projects, her rivals have flagged the lack of efforts to develop the Vedarukkonam-Narikkal road that has posed immense difficulty for several residents in the region.  Reservation The reservation of the office of the municipal chairperson for women candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) has prompted each coalition to change tack while finalising candidates. While the scenario forced many sitting councillors to vacate ‘safe seats’, some others had to drop out of the race. Currently, two of the wards reserved for SC Women – Paramuttom and Netta – are considered strongholds of the United Democratic Front (UDF) which has fielded three-time councillor J. Geetha and M.R. Meera respectively. Possibly pre-empting adverse results in these seats that could leave the coalition wanting an eligible chairperson candidate, the LDF has fielded CPI(M)’s youth leader Rajika S. for the Mannoorkonam seat that has been reserved for SC candidates. The BJP has projected its sitting councillor Vinodini S., who will contest from the Netta ward, as its chairperson hopeful. Having been able to evade any rebel menace, each coalition has commenced at least five rounds of campaigning that is bound to pick up with district authorities lifting restrictions on the use of microphones for announcements. The absence of high-profile star campaigners and large conventions, owing to COVID-19, has left parties to find new avenues on social media to garner support for candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tantalising-finish-likely-in-nedumangad-municipality/article33245511.ece
04 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||MBBS aspirants seek 3rd allotment||A large number of top-ranking medical aspirants from the State have appealed to the Centre to conduct a third round of allotment for admissions in the all-India medical quota, after hundreds of them have been denied a seat in the second allotment. Students who scored above 600 marks in the NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) from Kerala have been disappointed at the denial of a medical seat in the all-India quota. The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has completed the second allotment and is set to give the unfilled seats to the respective States. Vacant seats Students from States such as Kerala, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh fared exceptionally well in this year’s NEET and the 15% MBBS seats reserved in the all-India quota remained their main hope of studying in a government medical college. But after the second allotment and considering the return of a number of students to their home States because of COVID-19 scare, more than 30% of the seats are expected to fall vacant in the all-India quota. If the MCC returns the vacant seats to their respective States after the second allotment, hundreds of eligible students from States such as Kerala and Rajasthan are going to lose the seats they deserve by their ranks. “This is where we want the MCC to conduct a third round of allotment. That is the only option to save this heartburning of deserving students. When our students who scored 610 marks are denied admissions in a government medical college, students in other States make it to government medical colleges with much less marks. The problem can be addressed by conducting a third round of allotment in the all India quota,” said P.P. Basheer, who coordinated mass memorandums sent to top officials, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Basheer’s daughter Nihla scored 606 marks and her NEET rank is 17,332.  AIIMS, JIPMER Admissions to All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) are also being made from NEET ranks. AIIMS and JIPMER will have a third mop-up allotment round too. Until 2016, four rounds of allotment were made in the all-India quota. By reducing the allotment to two rounds, many seats are being denied for deserving students. “It also defeats the very purpose of the all-India quota, which has been introduced to provide a level-playing field across India for top-ranking students of different States,” said Leo Luka from Thiruvananthapuram, whose daughter Snigda Leo was denied a seat in spite of scoring 609 marks. They also pointed out that as per NEET rules, all States should complete their first allotment before the second allotment of all India quota. But in several States the first allotment is still not over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mbbs-aspirants-seek-3rd-allotment/article33245032.ece
04 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF refutes Balan’s allegations||District Congress Committee (DCC) president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, has refuted an allegation levelled by Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes A.K. Balan that the UDF had made an unholy nexus with the BJP and the Jamaat-e-Islami for the local body elections. “Mr. Balan’s allegations are meant not only to tarnish the UDF but also to conceal the issues within the LDF. The CPI(M) has also concealed its symbol in 210 seats in municipalities and panchayats in the district. Why their party workers and leaders are contesting in other symbols?” he asked. Mr. Sreekandan said that the UDF did not need the support of the BJP to defeat the CPI(M). “The CPI(M) has no right to criticise the UDF. It is a shame that the Minister is resorting to such baseless allegations,” he said. Mr. Sreekandan said that it was the CPI(M) that made adjustments with the BJP and the BDJS at several places in its fight against the UDF. He said many had left the CPI(M) and joined the Congress after corruption and nepotism reached an unbearable level in that party. Mr. Sreekandan said that the CPI(M) propaganda about UDF-BJP alliance at Pookkottukavu panchayat was part of a conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-refutes-balans-allegations/article33245458.ece
04 December 2020||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||PFI protests against ED raids||Popular Front of India (PFI) staged widespread protests against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on its leaders’ houses at Manjeri and Elamaram on Thursday. The houses of PFI national secretary Nasaruddin Elamaram and national chairman O.M.A. Salam were raided in the morning. The PFI described the raids as a witch-hunt as part of implementing the RSS agenda. PFI State president C.P. Mohammed Basheer said in a statement that it was meant to divert attention from the ongoing farmers’ agitation.  PFI activists took out protest marches at several places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pfi-protests-against-ed-raids/article33245457.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webcasting of polling in 1,850 booths||Webcasting facilities will be introduced in 1,850 polling booths deemed hyper-sensitive in the upcoming local body elections, the State Election Commission (SEC) said on Thursday. This was finalised on the basis of a report submitted by State Police Chief Loknath Behera. Kannur district has the highest number of hyper-sensitive booths at 785. Pathanamthitta has the lowest at five. North Kerala districts have higher numbers of booths classified in the category. District-wise break-up of such booths follows: Thiruvananthapuram 180, Kollam 35, Alappuzha 40, Kottayam 30, Idukki 12, Ernakulam 55, Thrissur 54, Palakkad 182, Malappuram 100, Kozhikode 120, Wayanad 152, and Kasaragod 100. Additionally, videography facilities will be installed in sensitive booths identified jointly by District Election Officers and District Police Chiefs. Candidates and political parties have the option to seek videography in booths that are not selected for live webcasting or videography at their own expense. Videographers will be appointed by district election officers. The expense should be paid to the bank account in the name of the District Collector or the joint bank account held by the Collector and the Deputy Collector (election). This expense will not be included in the election expenses of the candidate, the commission said. Identity proof Voters can produce any of the following documents for establishing their identity to vote: Electors photo identity cards (EPIC) issued by the Election Commission of India, passport, driving licence, PAN card, Aadhaar card, passbooks with photographs issued by banks within six months of the election, and identity cards issued by the SEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webcasting-of-polling-in-1850-booths/article33245028.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||271 relief camps opened||Thiruvananthapuram district opened 271 relief camps and began evacuating people from vulnerable regions on Thursday as Cyclone Burevi is expected to cross the region on Friday after weakening into a depression. As many as 177 residents of the ‘layams’, including at Ponmudi, have been evacuated to safer locations at Vithura as a precautionary measure. The evacuated included 69 women, 66 men, and 42 children. A 15-member National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team deployed in the district had visited Ponmudi on Thursday morning to take stock of the situation. The 271 camps opened in various parts of the district are capable of accommodating more than 15,000 people if the need arises, the district administration said. As many as 107 camps have been opened in Thiruvananthapuram taluk that can provide shelter to 6,095 people. Thirty-three camps have been opened at Chirayinkeezhu taluk (capable of sheltering 3,045 people), 16 camps in Varkala for accommodating 700 people, and 20 camps in Neyyattinkara that can accommodate 2,000 persons. The district administration has opened 12 camps at Kattakada (capacity 1,000 people), 29 camps in Nedumangad taluk (capacity 3,000). The Kerala Water Authority (KWA), Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), and the Civil Supplies Department have been directed to provide water and electricity supply and stock food at the camps. Minister’s reassurance Minister for Tourism and Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran, who is coordinating the arrangements in the district, ruled out the possibility of large-scale devastation as the weather system was expected to decrease in intensity as it approached Kerala. Nonetheless, heightened vigil was being maintained in the district, he said. District Collector Navjot Khosa toured the coastal areas of Muthalappozhi, Anchuthengu, and Valiyapalli. She advised the fishers not to venture out to sea until further notice. Ms. Khosa also assessed the arrangements at the relief camps opened in the coastal areas. Four spillway shutters of the Neyyar dam have been opened 30 cm each as part of the efforts to maintain safe storage levels, given the possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall on Friday. All shutters of the Peppara dam have been opened by 10 cm each. Two shutters of the Aruvikkara dam have also been raised, the administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/271-relief-camps-opened/article33245496.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Judicial probationers on the rise||As the government attempts to rejig the probation system in the State to make it more effective, the number of judicial probationers has shown a steady increase over the years. The Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 states that all persons found guilty of crimes that will not lead to life imprisonment or death penalty can be put on probation instead of being sentenced. Judicial probation means imposition of probation by court after suspension of the sentence in non-violent crimes or first-time offences to facilitate rehabilitation of offenders in society instead of sending them to jails in the midst of hardcore criminals. In 2015-16, the number of judicial probationers was 146. This increased to 260 in 2019-20. In 2018-19, this was only 169. Executive probationers The number of executive probationers, that is offenders released on good conduct after serving a portion of their sentence and put under the guidance of probation officers, too has gone up during this period. In 2015-16, the number of executive probationers was 71. This rose to 98 in 2019-20. The number of preliminary enquiries from courts for reports from probation officers on offenders whose trial is on or who are undertrials has also been going up steadily. In 2015-16, the number of such enquiries was 308. This more than doubled to 626 in 2019-20. Premature enquiries from jail advisory boards in central prisons and open jails if an offender is eligible for early release have gone up from 658 to 1,012 in these five years. Enquiries from probation officers for victim compensation as per the Kerala Victim Compensation Scheme in rape or sexual abuse cases, murders, or other attacks have shot up from only three in 2015-16 to 132 in 2018-19. In 2019-20, it was 60. In the State, probation as a social defence programme – protection of society against crime – entails focus on aspects such as interventions among former prisoners, probationers, parolees, and first-time offenders, plea bargaining, and community service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judicial-probationers-on-the-rise/article33245492.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||424 new cases, 380 recoveries in capital||The district reported 424 COVID-19 cases and 380 recoveries on Thursday as the active caseload rose slightly to 4,207.  Total deaths at 563 The COVID-19 death toll rose to 563 as the pandemic claimed five more lives in the district. The deceased included an 80-year-old man who hailed from Mukkolackal, a 65-year-old man who hailed from Attingal, a 27-year-old man who hailed from Ayira, an 85-year-old man who hailed from Chirayinkeezhu, and a 63-year old man who hailed from Kadakampally. While almost all new cases have been attributed to local transmission, four health-care workers are among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 2,015 people in quarantine, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 31,677 at homes and 101 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/424-new-cases-380-recoveries-in-capital/article33245517.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cyclone Burevi: Health dept. put on full alert||The Health Department has been put on full alert to deal with any medical care emergencies or healthcare requirements that might arise following the heavy rain and high speed winds that might be unleashed by Cyclone Burevi when it hits Kerala coast on Friday. The Director of Medical Education and the Director of Health Services have been directed to ensure that treatment facilities and medicines are adequately stocked in all hospitals. The COVID protocol should be maintained strictly even when all arrangements are being readied, the government has said. All important hospitals and medical colleges have been asked to make all preparations for managing any health emergency, including a mass casualty. All emergency medicines, including anti-snake venom and medical kits have been asked to be arranged in hospitals. Orthopaedicians, physicians, paediatricians, surgeons and anaesthesiologists should be on-call duty. The primary health centres and community health centres in areas which are likely to be affected should also be on high alert. The nodal officers in districts should act as per the directions from the respective District Collectors. The Rapid Response Team should be on alert in all districts which are likely to be affected. Special attention should be given to coastal areas where all medical facilities including adequate human resources should be arranged. Adequate medical care should be made available in all relief camps. Elderly should be given special attention. Care should be taken that COVID protocols are followed in all relief camps.  The service of Kanivu 108 ambulance service has been ensured in all districts which are likely to be affected by the cyclonic storm. COVID-affected and others would be removed separately to hospitals. Special arrangements have been made in the central control room of the ambulance service to generate route maps on emergency basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-department-on-full-alert/article33245491.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New schedule for classes on VICTERS||The telecast schedule of the First Bell digital classes being aired on the KITE VICTERS channel has been updated, with more time allocated from December 7 for Classes X and XII for which public examinations will be conducted. Plus Two (Class XII) will have seven sessions daily from Monday to Friday and Class X students will have five sessions. Four additional classes will be telecast for Plus Two from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. along with the current telecast of three classes. Class X students will have three classes from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. and additional two classes from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. “Necessary arrangements for completing the classes, including special revision classes, for students of Classes X and XII by January and the digital classes for other grades in the same manner have been made,” K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, KITE, said. It is also planned to gradually increase the telecast time for the First Bell classes. Similar arrangements for Tamil and Kannada medium classes, which are aired separately, have been made. In order to complete the syllabus in a time-bound manner, new classes will be telecast on all days this month, except December 25. Classes for X and XII will be aired on Saturdays and Sundays. The classes on these days will be arranged in such a manner that it will be maximum four classes for Class XII and one class (language) with options for Class X. Along with this, regular programmes for anganwadi children such as Kilikonchal, classes for Little KITEs students, and Hello English sessions will be telecast on Saturdays and Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-schedule-for-classes-on-victers/article33245024.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coalitions release poll manifestos||Attempting to woo voters during the last phase of electioneering, the coalitions have brought out their manifestos for the upcoming polls to the Nedumangad municipal council. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has promised to continue its ongoing efforts in strengthening basic amenities. Having managed to construct the highest number of houses under the LIFE Mission, the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led coalition has targeted providing houses to other eligible homeless families. They have also planned to give shape to an Arogya Sena (health-care army) comprising health workers, including doctors, medical students, and volunteers to provide medical assistance on the doorstep. Tapping the tourism potential of the region and generating job opportunities under the proposed ‘Nedumangad Tourism Hub’ project is another target.  Satellite city Yet another promise is to develop Nedumangad as a satellite city of Thiruvananthapuram and beautify the Nedumangad-Pazhakutty-10th Stone road. An action plan will also be implemented to encourage paddy, fish, terrace, and homestead farming. The United Democratic Front (UDF), which is hoping to wrest power after two-and-a-half decades, has promised to establish zonal office to improve service delivery. ‘Chairperson’s adalats’ will be held every six months to fast-track grievance resolution. Free Wi-Fi zones will be set up at 15 major junctions for the benefit of students and other sections. Public toilets Accusing the LDF dispensation of failing to construct even one public toilet in the local body, the UDF has claimed it will establish 15 e-toilets in various parts of the municipality. Estimating that there were around 2,000 stray dogs in the region, the Congress-led coalition has offered to sterilise them and rehabilitate them. They also promise to ensure at least 150 work days for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers a year. Banking heavily on Centrally sponsored schemes, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) assures to ensure water supply through the Jal Jeevan scheme. They have also promised to implement Central schemes for farmers’ progress. Offering to execute a direct benefit transfer scheme, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led front will create zero-balance accounts for Kudumbashree and MGNREGS workers and widows. They also hope to establish a comprehensive drainage system in Nedumangad town using Central assistance. The NDA has also promised to establish a parking yard at Nedumangad town to overcome the existing paucity of parking space. Steps will also be expedited to transform the municipality into a ‘clean town’, according to the manifesto.  The LDF promises to implement an action plan to encourage paddy, fish, terrace, and homestead farming||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coalitions-release-poll-manifestos/article33245513.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||V.V. Rajesh alleges LDF-UDF alliance||Bharatiya Janata Party district president V.V. Rajesh has accused the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) of entering into tie-ups, forged by the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), in 21 wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation where the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) stood a good chance of winning. Addressing media persons, Mr. Rajesh alleged “certain Muslim League leaders from the Malabar region” of initiating discussions between the coalitions. “They have targeted those wards that were either held by the NDA, had com e second by a slender margin during the 2015 polls or are almost certain to win this time. The unholy alliance, which has also solicited the support of extremist groups, does not auger well for the harmonious atmosphere in Thiruvananthapuram,” he alleged. He claimed that the alleged nexus was part of the efforts being made to scuttle the BJP’s electoral prospects. He added that the allotment of ‘rose’ symbols for Independent candidates to confuse the voters was also part of the conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vv-rajesh-alleges-ldf-udf-alliance/article33245515.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman held on charge of killing her newborn||The Nedumangad police on Thursday arrested a 28-year-old woman for allegedly murdering and burying her newborn child. Viji of Mankuzhy in Panavoor was apprehended after her neighbours complained of a stench from the premises of her house. On probing further, the police found the putrefied body buried near the well. She purportedly confessed to the police that she had given birth to the baby boy whom she murdered shortly after on Sunday. According to the police, the accused, who has two daughters aged nine and six, has been living separately from her husband for five years. “She killed the baby in a bid to conceal an extramarital affair. She managed to mislead her parents and children during pregnancy by claiming she had an abscess on her stomach that had to be surgically removed,” a police officer said. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital mortuary after completion of inquest proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-on-charge-of-killing-her-newborn/article33245520.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ED inspects houses of PFI leaders in the State||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted almost simultaneous searches of the houses of at least three top leaders of the Popular Front of India (PFI) in Kerala. Officials said an ED team from New Delhi carried out surprise inspections at the residences of PFI chairman O.M.A. Salam and secretary Nasarudeen Elamaram in Malappuram. In Thiruvananthapuram, ED officials searched the house of PFI leader Karamana Ashraf Maulavi at Poonthura. They faced some protests in the coastal locality. Armed paramilitary personnel escorted the raiding parties. Officials here indicated that the inspections in Kerala were part of a nationwide operation that targeted suspicious PFI fund flow. Officials here said the ED in New Delhi was investigating at least two anti-money laundering cases against the PFI. The agency was probing whether the PFI’s alleged acceptance of funds from foreign entities over the years violated FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act) and PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) regulations. Mr. Elamaram told The Hindu that the ED officials had knocked on the door of his house at dawn. He was not at home at the time. His brother told him that the officials confiscated a laptop computer, some pen drives and a few books from his library. “They (ED officials) behaved courteously,” he said. At the time of the raid, only his family was at home. The inspection lasted for a few hours. ‘Politically motivated’ The PFI leader said the current raids were politically motivated. The Centre was desperate to draw public attention away from the farmers’ protest. Mr. Elamaram said the PFI’s constitution prohibited the organisation from accepting foreign funds. Voluntary donations from members financed its political and charitable activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-inspects-houses-of-pfi-leaders-in-state/article33245022.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seven fully reserved special trains to run||The Railway Board has given clearance for operating seven fully reserved special inter-city and long-distance trains as part of opening up the railway network after the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central daily specials (06630/06629), Madurai-Punalur-Madurai daily express specials (06729/06730), MGR Chennai Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central-MGR Chennai Central daily superfast specials (02695/02696), Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central daily specials (06603/06604), Coimbatore-Nagercoil-Coimbatore superfast daily specials (02668/ 02667), Chennai Egmore-Guruvayur-Chennai Egmore daily specials (06127/06128) and Chennai Egmore-Nagercoil-Chennai Egmore weekly specials (06063/06064) are the trains. First service The first service of train 06630 will be on December 4 and train 06629, on December 5. The former will have an additional stoppage at Thiruvananthapuram Pettah and the latter at Tripunithura. Train 06729 will be running from December 4 and train 06730, from December 5. Train 02695 will start running from December 8 and train 02696, from December 9. Train 06603 will have its first service on December 10 and train 06604, on December 11. Train 02668 will start running from December 8 and train 02667, December 9. The first service of train 06127 will be on December 8 and train 06128, on December 9. Train 06063 will commence running from December 10 and train 06064, from December 11. Advance reservation Advance reservation for the trains has commenced. All passengers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic ones will be allowed to board the trains. All have to wear face covers/masks throughout the travel. All passengers will have to download and use the Aarogya Setu app. No Linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided, a railway release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-fully-reserved-special-trains-to-run/article33245035.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UST Global bags award||UST Global, a digital transformation solutions company with operations in Thiruvananthapuram announced that it won the Business Culture Awards 2020 for ‘Best International Initiative for Business Culture.’ The awards, announced at a virtual event on November 25, honour companies that have created outstanding work-environments, enabling their employees to perform to their very best, facilitating exceptional business performance and customer delivery. UST Global was chosen by the judges for its robust, structured, and dedicated approach to company culture and commitment to the employee experience. A press release issued by the company here said the jury had also noted the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives led by UST employees during the pandemic-induced lockdown and employee engagement framework called COLORS, which connects “USsociates” across all 25 countries with a sense of purpose and belonging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ust-global-bags-award/article33245498.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,376 new cases, 5,590 recoveries||Kerala’s cumulative COVID-19 case burden rose to 6,20,049 cases on Thursday with the reporting of 5,376 new positive cases when 60,476 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate went down to 8.89% on Thursday. The State also reported 5,590 recoveries on the day, taking the number of COVID-19 recoveries till date to 5,56,378. The active case pool of the State has thus fallen to 61,209 cases. The Health Department added 31 more deaths to the State’s official COVID death toll, taking the State’s cumulative toll to 2,329. Kollam reported seven of these deaths, Alappuzha six, Thiruvananthapuram five, Thrissur four, Malappuram three, Kannur and Kozhikode two each and one death each was reported from Wayanad and Ernakulam. Official figures showed that the number of COVID patients who are critically ill in the State is 837 with 216 of them requiring ventilator support. Of the 5,376 new cases , 5,295 cases are locally acquired infections, with no epidemiological link established in the case of 527 infections. Among districts, the cases were Malappuram 714, Thrissur 647, Kozhikode 547, Ernakulam 441, Thiruvananthapuram 424, Alappuzha 408, Palakkad 375, Kottayam 337, Pathanamthitta 317, Kannur 288, Kollam 285, Idukki 265, Wayanad 238 and Kasaragod 90.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5376-new-cases-5590-recoveries/article33245021.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport to be closed for eight hours today||Close on the heels of the closure of Tuticorin and Madurai airports owing to Cyclone Burevi, the domestic and international flight operations from Thiruvananthapuram International Airport have been suspended from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. “Precautionary NOTAM” (the notice to airmen), has been issued to alert aircraft pilots of potential hazards following the directive of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) headquarters in New Delhi and based on the weather inputs from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The closure is part of the safety measures as per the SOPs and the District Collector, Thiruvananthapuram, has been informed of the NOTAM, a top AAI official said. The airfield will be available for rescue and relief operations and for overflying flights over Thiruvananthapuram, if needed, during the period depending on the weather conditions and ground clearance for landing and take-off.  Flights to be cancelled The two international flights and seven domestic flights during the NOTAM period will have to be cancelled or diverted to other airports in the State. The AAI had briefed the operating airlines over the past three days on the precautionary steps to be taken in case of crisis. A meeting has been convened at 3 p.m. on Friday to take stock of the situation and on opening of the airport after the NOTAM ends at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyclone-burevi-airport-to-be-closed-for-eight-hours/article33245017.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rape of minor girl: police arrest youth||The Medical College police on Thursday arrested a youth for allegedly raping a minor girl. The police identified the arrested person as Noufal, alias Appu, 20, of Velinalloor in Kollam. He has been accused of abducting a 15-year-old girl, hailing from the Medical College police station limits, and harassing her sexually.  The police had constituted a special team to track him upon being alerted by the girl’s family. The accused has been booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-of-minor-girl-police-arrest-youth/article33245518.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probation Week valedictory today||The valedictory of Probation Week, being observed by the State in honour of the late jurist V.R. Krishna Iyer who was the author of various judgments on prison reforms, will be held on Friday afternoon. The observance began on November 15, the birth anniversary of Krishna Iyer, and will conclude on his death anniversary. It has been observed with various online and offline programmes such as webinars, poster exhibitions, competitions, awareness programmes, and discussions, on by district probation offices and district legal services authority. The valedictory will be held online from 3.30 p.m. on Friday. Kerala High Court judge C.T. Ravikumar will inaugurate the celebrations. K.T. Nisar Ahmed, district judge and Kerala Legal Services Authority member secretary, will be the chief guest. Social Justice Secretary Biju Prabhakar will preside. The inaugural will be followed by a discussion on increase in crime and crowding in jails against the backdrop of probation laws. Jayesh K. Joseph, criminologist at the Kerala Police Academy, will introduce the topic. The programme link ishttps://meet.google.com /hvc-xagm-zwxFor details, call 8281128237.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probation-week-valedictory-today/article33245493.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Armed forces prepared||The armed forces have activated their assets for tackling contingencies as Cyclone Burevi is expected to make landfall in south Tamil Nadu and cross Kerala on Friday. The Military Station at Pangode here is ready with 12 columns, consisting of 25 soldiers each. Mi-17 and Sarang helicopters and AN-32 aircraft are stationed at the Sulur Air Force Station, Coimbatore, a defence spokesperson said. The Southern Air Command (SAC) headquarters at Akkulam and the Air Force Station at Shanghumughom are fully prepared to tackle emergencies. Naval and Coast Guard aircraft executed sorties off Thiruvananthapuram coast and Lakshadweep and instructed fishermen to return to the shore immediately. The Coast Guard Station at Vizhinjam has deployed two ships and two boats for rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/armed-forces-ready-to-tackle-emergencies/article33245497.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Laurel for city student||Meghana Anil of Christ Nagar International School has bagged the Outstanding Cambridge Learner Award by achieving highest marks in the world (100%) in Mathematics in Cambridge International AS Level in the November 2019 Cambridge exam series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laurel-for-city-student/article33245494.ece
04 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||16,000 extra booths for Assembly polls||The general Assembly elections in 2021 will require 16,000 auxiliary polling booths in view of the pandemic situation in the State. Addressing a meeting attended by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and senior officials here on Thursday to discuss the arrangements for the polls, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said the auxiliary booths would require an additional outlay of funds and manpower. The meeting was informed that the COVID-19 protocols would necessitate more arrangements for smooth conduct of polling. State Police Chief Loknath Behera outlined the security arrangements that would be required while Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, R.K.Singh explained the additional financial commitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16000-extra-booths-for-assembly-polls/article33245029.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aircraft renovated||The ‘Sea Hawk’ navy aircraft, which has been displayed at Jawahar Balbhavan here, was renovated on Thursday. The aircraft, which had once operated from the decks of the aircraft carrier INS Vikrant during the Indo-Pak war of 1971, has been spruced up on account of the Navy Day celebrations on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aircraft-renovated/article33245514.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU - deadline extended||University of Kerala has extended the deadline for securing the admissions of those who gained allotments through the special supplementary allotment to affiliated arts and science colleges and University Institutes of Technology (UITs), and first supplementary allotment to postgraduate courses to December 10. According to an official release, the spot admission to two vacancies (reserved for SC/ST candidates) for the MTech programme that was scheduled to be held at the Department of Optoelectronics on Friday has been postponed to December 8. Details can be obtained by contacting 0471-2308167.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-extends-deadline/article33245008.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest 2||A 59-year-old man was arrested by the Vanchiyoor police for allegedly stealing the mobile phone of a devotee from a temple. The police identified the accused as Sreekumar, 59, of Kanjiramattom in Ernakulam. He was arrested for allegedly stealing the phone of Pathanamthitta native Manoj, an employee of the city Corporation. While the accused was apprehended from the premises of the temple in Vanchiyoor a day after the crime took place, the police recovered the stolen phone worth nearly Rs. 28,000 from a shop at Beemapally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrest-2/article33245519.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU exams postponed||The University of Kerala has postponed all examinations that were scheduled to be held on Friday. The revised schedule will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-exams-postponed/article33245025.ece
04 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shiv Sena not part of NDA for polls||Shiv Sena State president M.S. Bhuvanachandran has said that the party will not contest in the local body polls as part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). He added that the party would not have any understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party for the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shiv-sena-not-part-of-nda-for-polls/article33245026.ece
04 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||647 test positive in Thrissur district||A total of 647 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Thursday. The district also reported 734 recoveries. There are 6,307 active cases in the district and 97 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 61,014 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 54,250 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 624 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. Of them, 79 patients are above the age of 60 and 44 patients are below the age of 10. In all, 3,979 patients are under home observation. In all, 212 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Thursday. A total of 6,026 samples were collected for testing on Thursday. In Palakkad Palakkad district recorded 375 new COVID-19 cases, while 397 infected people recovered from the disease on Thursday. District officials said the higher rate of recovery gave them a reason to cheer. They said 221 of the newly infected persons had contracted the virus through direct contact with COVID-19 patients. However, the source of infection could not be traced in 146 cases. Among the positive cases registered on Thursday were seven people who came from across the borders and one health worker. The number of persons currently under treatment for COVID-19 across Palakkad came down to 4,641. Besides them, 169 persons from Palakkad were being treated for the disease in other districts. Officials said that 87 were in Malappuram, 37 in Ernakulam, 28 in Thrissur, eight in Kozhikode, four in Thiruvananthapuram, two in Kollam, and one each in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/647-test-positive-in-thrissur-district/article33245528.ece
04 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Protest in CPI(M) against CM: Hassan||The KSFE (Kerala State Financial Enterprises) raid controversy is an indication of an “anti-Pinarayi Vijayan syndicate” in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI(M) against the autocratic attitude of the Chief Minister, United Democratic Front convener M.M. Hassan has said. He was addressing ‘Thaddeshapporu’, an election debate programme, organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Thursday. The Chief Minister’s allegation was that the news in connection with the KSFE raid was a creation of a media syndicate. But Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and CPI(M) senior leader Anathalavattom Anandan had made remarks about the raids. The media had only reported it, he noted. Mr. Hassan also pointed out the difference of opinion expressed by CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury in the Sprinklr row.  Mr. Hassan alleged that the announcement of Christmas kits after the poll code came into effect was to influence voters. Action should be taken against the Chief minister, who violated the code of conduct. “Even if you distribute gold kits, you cannot influence people. We are witnessing the response of people against the corrupt Left Democratic Front government,” he said. “It was now clear for the people what happened in the solar case. The MLA post of Ganesh Kumar and Cabinet post of Balakrishna Pillai were the rewards of the LDF for connecting former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy with the solar case.” Mr. Hassan, however, retracted from his earlier stand about the link with the Welfare Party of India and said the UDF had no link with the party anywhere in the State. He alleged that the State was being ruled by a Chief Minister who protected murderers. The Supreme Court’s verdict in the Periye case was a setback for his stance. The government used Rs. 1 crore from the exchequer for the case. In the wake of Supreme Court verdict, the government should repay the money, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-in-cpim-against-cm-hassan/article33245456.ece
04 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Container lorry falls into Chalakudy river||A container lorry fell into the Chalakudy river on Thursday evening crashing through the rails of the Chalakudy bridge. The driver and the helper, who jumped from the vehicle to the river, escaped without injuries. The accident happened after the driver of the lorry lost control of the vehicle. The vehicle rammed the hand rails and fell into the river. The vehicle was returning to Rajasthan after delivering goods in Kochi. The accident caused traffic jam on the bridge for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/container-lorry-falls-into-chalakudy-river/article33245526.ece
04 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Anwar: Centre ignoring demands of farmers||The Union government, which protects the interests of corporates, has refused to hear the demands of farmers and their organisations, AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar has said. “The statement made by Prime Minster Narendra Modi at Varanasi clearly shows the indication that the government is not willing to hear the farmers,” he said while addressing mediapersons in Thrissur DCC office on Thursday. The Congress would make an impressive victory in the coming local body elections. It has always taken a stand to strengthen the local bodies, Mr. Anwar said. “The delay in deciding UDF candidates was to take all sections of party workers into confidence. The UDF has fielded people approved by all sections. The UDF is not going for any alliance outside the front,” he said. Govt. criticised The LDF rule in the State was marred by corruption. This would turn in favour of the Congress. Allegations against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala were politically motivated. The LDF was trying to damage the image of the Congress using the power at the time of elections, Mr. Anwar said. DCC president M.P. Vincent, former Union Minister K.V. Thomas, KPCC vice president Padmaja Venugopal and other Congress leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anwar-centre-ignoring-demands-of-farmers/article33245454.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready to use||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-use/article33245016.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a green election||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-green-election/article33244971.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rebuilding the bridge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rebuilding-the-bridge/article33245379.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Undaunted by pandemic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/undaunted-by-pandemic/article33245523.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll process||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-process/article33245462.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A dummy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-dummy/article33245464.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Candidates’ call||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidates-call/article33245466.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Forestalling danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forestalling-danger/article33245500.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Arc of anticipation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arc-of-anticipation/article33245502.ece
04 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalava seeks fair deal for Anantapur farmers||Anantapur farmers might not get adequate compensation for the loss they have suffered in groundnut cultivation due to excessive vegetative growth and inundation during the incessant rains during the south-west monsoon season, going by the results of the Crop Cutting Experiment (CCE) made in the district. Farmers in only 33 of the total 63 mandals in the district will be eligible for crop insurance payout or input subsidy by the State government. The crop cutting experiment is done to estimate the crop production of a particular region and calculate the claim of insurance. The actual yield of a crop in a given area is determined on the basis of CCE, and the difference between threshold and actual yields is taken into consideration for payment of crop insurance. The CCE was done at two locations each in 377 villages in the district selected by computerised randomisation. The average yield in 199 villages was found to be below the district average. However, since mandal is taken as a unit, only 33 mandals showed below-average yields of 455 kg per hectare. The rest showed a higher yield. As against the last three years’ average yield of 608 kg per hectare of groundnut, this year the average yield of 754 locations was 455 kg per hectare. Seeking justice for farmers, TDP district president Kalava Srinivasulu on Thursday asked the YSRCP MLAs to get an assurance from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to get at least Rs. 2,500 crore as compensation for groundnut crop loss as against the Rs. 397.85 crore calculated by the officials. The TDP leader warned to launch a massive agitation if the majority of the farmers were left out when it came to sanctioning of input subsidy. “The YSRCP government has already stopped payment of Rs. 918 crore input subsidy for 2018 kharif that should have been paid by June 2019,” Mr. Srinivasulu pointed out. Meanwhile, all the YSRCP MLAs from the district made a representation to the Chief Minister in writing, seeking better compensation to farmers. They said the CCE was not a scientific method and thousands of farmers were left out when it came to payment of compensation. The Agriculture Department has calculated input subsidy as Rs. 15,000 per hectare and for the damaged crop in 33 mandals, it has been put at Rs. 397.85 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalava-seeks-fair-deal-to-farmers/article33245426.ece
04 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer associations urge Modi to bail out cyclone-hit ryots||Federation of All-India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to initiate steps to extend aid to the farmers hit by cyclone Nivar. The heavy rainfall induced by the cyclone has caused extensive damage to paddy, FCV tobacco, chilli, Bengal gram, cotton and horticultural crops in coastal districts of South India forcing farmers to go for fresh plantation in some regions. Federation general secretary Murali Babu said that crops in 4.9 lakh hectares were damaged in the State. Paddy in 3.25 lakh hectares, Bengal gram in 42,000 hectares, cotton in 21,000 hectares, and other crops in 63,000 hectares in 449 villages of 13 districts were damaged resulting in losses in crores of rupees. The cyclone also caused extensive damage to horticultural crops in about 23,000 acres and the loss was estimated at Rs. 128 crore affecting over 17,000 farmers engaged in cultivation of fruits, vegetables, and flowers. FCV tobacco farmers and Vinukonda burley farmers were among the worst hit where freshly sowed saplings, less than 60 days old and planted in 10,000 hectares have been impacted due to water logging. In burley growing regions of Guntur and Prakasam districts where harvesting commenced in more than 7,500 hectares, there was a complete leaf loss in curing barns. Also, due to unexpected heavy rains and high winds, five million kg in curing is exposed to rotting and quality deterioration. Delay likely In Northern Light Soil regions of FCV tobacco crop, considerable delay is expected for the rest of the plantation as the incessant rains have flooded the fields a few weeks after completion of sowing operation. To recoup the losses incurred during last cropping season when lockdown coincided with the peak marketing season, farmers have no other option but to go for re-plantation, which involves additional expenses. “Cyclone Nivar has caused one of the biggest-ever losses to the farm sector in South India. We are still evaluating the extent of the loss which could be in hundreds of crores. We are trying to impress upon the government to provide an immediate economic relief package to farmers,” said federation national spokesperson Yashwanth Chidipothu. Meanwhile, leaders of Farmers Co-ordination Committee staged a protest against the farm laws, at Benz Circle in Vijayawada. They were detained by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmer-associations-urge-modi-to-bail-out-cyclone-hit-ryots/article33245545.ece
04 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP inaugurates school block||Kadapa Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy has said that schooling had taught him values of life and inculcated a sense of discipline. The MP was speaking at a meeting after inaugurating the primary block of Loyola Public School at Nallapadu. The block will cater to the students from pre-primary to Class 5 and the syllabus is ICSE. Eluru MP Kotagiri Sridhar, MLC D.M. Vara Prasada Rao, AMR Constructions chairman A. Mahesh Reddy, and Road Safety Authority chairman K.R.M. Kishore Kumar were also present. School principal Father Uvari Anthony also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-inaugurates-school-block/article33244808.ece
04 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy damaged in 1.33 lakh ha. in Guntur||The district administration has estimated that agricultural crops in 1.35 lakh hectares and horticultural crops in 5,500 hectares have been damaged due to the Cyclone Nivar. Paddy is the worst affected with damages reported in 1.33 lakh hectares. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar told the media here on Thursday that efforts were on to salvage crops in 22 mandals by draining out water. The revenue and irrigation officials have been working on a war-footing. They engaged earthmovers to drain out water in 35,000 hectares. Mr. Samuel said that the damaged fields would be surveyed and compensation would be credited directly to the accounts of farmers by December 31. The compensation would also cover farmers identified in e-crop. The enumeration would include tenant farmers. Farmers, who have suffered losses, would be provided 80% subsidy for Bengal gram and green gram. Procurement centres The administration has set up 164 paddy procurement centres and they have been integrated with Rythu Bharosa Kendras. A control room was set up at the Collector’s office (94913 92717).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-damaged-in-133-lakh-ha-in-guntur/article33244809.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 from A.P., Telangana in India’s 100 wealthiest women list||Thirteen women from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana figure in the list of 100 wealthiest women of India, according to a report released on Thursday. Leading the list of 13 is Nilima Motaparti, Director (Commercial) of Divi's Laboratories, with a net worth of Rs. 18,620 crore. In the list of 100, she is at the fourth position, said a release on the 2nd edition of ‘Kotak Wealth Hurun - Leading Wealthy Women’. Next in the list of wealthiest women from the Telugu States is Mahima Datla of Biological E. (Rs. 4,100 crore). Shobana Kamineni and Sangita Reddy of Apollo Hospitals Enterprise are at the third and fourth positions with Rs. 1,470 crore and Rs. 1,400 crore respectively. Gundavaram Vanaja Devi of Kaveri Seed (Rs. 850 crore), Padmaja Gangireddy of Spandana Sphoorty Financial (Rs. 690 crore), Shalini Bhupal and Indira Krishna Reddy of TAJGVK Hotels & Resorts (Rs. 490 crore) and Uma Devi Chigurupati of Granules India (Rs. 420 crore) are other prominent personalities from Hyderabad who feature on the list, the release said. 32-year old Anjana Reddy of Universal Sportsbiz based in Hyderabad is one of the youngest women on the list and is a start-up entrepreneur. The listing is based on the net worth of women as on 30th September 2020 and the threshold for the ranking is Rs. 100 crore. Naveena Nekkanti and Rama Devi, Devi Sea Foods from Visakhapatnam and Swarnalatha Galiveeti, PLR Projects from Tirupati are three of the 15 women from non-metro cities on the list. CEO - Wealth Management, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Oisharya Das said “The Kotak Wealth Hurun – Leading Wealthy Women 2020 report reveals an interesting and inspiring trend of more and more trailblazing women leading the way and scripting success stories across a wide variety of industries and encompassing cities and towns pan India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-from-ap-ts-in-indias-100-wealthiest-women-list/article33245368.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doubling and electrification done in Guntur-Guntakal section||The South Central Railway has announced commissioning of double line works along with electrification between Nallapadu - Perecherla for a distance of 7.8 km., thereby 59.8 km of the 404 km of the Guntur - Guntakal doubling and electrification project work has been completed on Thursday. Trains were being operated on single line which has become congested and facing lot of constraints, so the entire project sanctioned in 2016-17 envisages doubling and electrification at an estimated cost of Rs. 3,887 crore. Already, work on 24 km between Perecherla – Satulur and 28 km of Dhone – Pendekallu has been completed earlier this year. GM Gajanan Mallya pointed out that the work involves construction of several minor and major bridges apart from passing through thick Nallamalla forest area. Once completed, more trains can be run from Hyderabad/Nadikude side towards Rayalaseema region and down south, a press release said. Meanwhile, the SCR’s Secunderabad division has been awarded six prizes in “Sixth Garden Festival 2020” conducted by the Department of Horticulture in all categories where entries were made with five being first prizes. Categories: 1st prizes for Hyderabad Railway Station vertical garden, nursery and garden, Sanchalan Bhavan (DRM Office, Secunderabad), residential garden and kitchen garden, DRM bungalow No.1 and second prize of landscape garden, Sanchalan Bhavan (DRM office, Secunderabad). General Manager Gajanan Mallya, General Manager had a word of appreciation for DRM Anand Bhatia for showing keen interest on improving greenery, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doubling-work-done-on-guntur-guntakal-section/article33245371.ece
04 December 2020||JAGGAIAHPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple injured as car catches fire||A couple suffered injuries when a car by which they were travelling caught fire and overturned at Anasagaram village in Krishna district in the early hours of Thursday. Police rushed to the spot and shifted the injured persons to Nandigama hospital. The victims were travelling from Mangalagiri in Guntur district to Jaggaiahpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-hurt-as-car-catches-fire/article33245490.ece
04 December 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore ryots worried as IMD forecasts more rain||Having lost crops in over 33,000 hectares to the rain under infulence of Cyclone Nivar, farmers in Nellore district now have their fingers crossed as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more rainfall in south coastal Andhra Pradesh on Friday owing to cyclonic storm Burevi over the Gulf of Mannar. The southern parts of the district witnessed light to moderate showers on Thursday. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in the region in the next 24 hours after the weather system crossed the coast, an IMD bulletin said. As a precaution, the irrigation authorities maintained the storage in Somasila reservoir at 70.98 tmcft when compared to the full level of 78 tmcft by releasing 33,000 cusecs of water downstream. With an inflows of 24,617 cusecs, the water level in the reservoir went up to 326.85 feet on Thursday. Allaying fears of farmers, Somasila Superintending Engineer N.Krishna Rao said the flood situation was well under control as the rains in the catchment areas had abated. Those living close to the Penna river banks including the residents in the low-lying areas in Nellore town are a worried lot as the Cyclone Nivar left the colonies waterlogged for several days. Meanwhile, the storage in Kandaleru reservoir, which caters to the drinking water needs of Chennai and Tirupati among other cities, stood at 59.85 tmcft leaving a flood cushion of 8.18 tmcft. The irrigation authorities let out 5,580 cusecs of water to maintain the level at 273.29 ft. Indukurpet recieved a maximum rainfall of 91.8 mm in the last 24 hours followed by Kovur (90.2 mm), Vidavalur (69.8 mm), Kodavalur (51.2 mm), Nellore (44.6mm), Tada (26.2 mm) and Sullurpeta (25.4 mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-ryots-worried-as-imd-forecasts-more-rain/article33244810.ece
04 December 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||HCL hires Audisankara students||As many as 77 student of Audisankara Engineering College, Guduru, were hired by information technology major HCL during a campus placement drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hcl-hires-audisankara-students/article33245427.ece
04 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar delivers another blow to tobacco growers||It was a double whammy for tobacco growers in Prakasam and Nellore districts as the severe cyclonic storm Nivar has damaged standing crops in about 11,500 hectares at a time when they were expecting to recoup the losses due to lockdown in the wake of coronavirus pandemic in the peak marketing season early this year. The farmers both in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions have grown the principal commercial crop on a cautious note during rabi after having burnt their fingers last year. As a result, the crop acreage is restricted to 28,600 hectares when compared to the double last year. The Tobacco Board has cut down the crop size by about 15% of the previous year, anticipating reduced global demand in the wake of the pandemic. After the wet spell around Deepavali, Nivar came as a bolt from the blue when the farmers had just began the cultivation, amid the odds of labour shortage and increased farm input cost. According to a preliminary assessment made by the Tobacco Board, farmers would have to go for a gap filling in at least 9,300 hectares and fresh plantation in another 2,200 hectares in the SLS and SBS regions this month. But this is not going to be easy for the ryots who need fresh capital infusion. “We have already spent Rs. 75,000 per barn and will need at least another Rs. 25,000 per acre for gap filling and fresh plantation. Moreover, there has been a shortage of good quality tender seedlings at this stage,” lamented a group of farmers at Chekurupadu village, near N.G.Padu in Prakasam district. The ryots in the two districts have kept their fingers crossed on the course of the new weather systems predicted to bring more rain to the southern peninsula. Financial aid sought “We are adopting a wait and watch policy. We will be able to go for fresh plantation only if the Union and State governments extend financial assistance of Rs. 25,000 per barn,” said V.V.Prasad, a farmer leader from Ongole II auction platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nivar-delivers-another-blow-to-tobacco-growers/article33245445.ece
04 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers want State-regulated markets, bargaining power||Farmers cutting across party lines took out a protest march here on Thursday, demanding repeal of the recently introduced three farm laws. Farmers under the aegis of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee arrived here in tractors to express solidarity with their counterparts agitating in New Delhi. As the rally began from the Kurnool road bypass centre, farmers shouted slogans demanding withdrawal of the decision by the State government to fix power meters to farm pumpsets. Cong., Left parrties join Joined by the activists from the opposition parties including the Congress, CPI and CPI (M), members of farmers’ organisations gathered at the Collectorate. They demanded that the State-regulated markets be strengthened and statutory backing be provided to the MSP regime. “It is unfortunate that the NDA government chose to leave the farmers at the mercy of traders and denied them the advantage of collective bargaining in the State-regulated markets,” said AIKCC Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao. AIKCC State co-convenor and Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam general secretary K.V.V. Prasad demanded setting up of a Farmers’ Commission to address the problems related to indebtedness of farmers, which was pushing them to resort to the extreme steps. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee State vice-president Sripathi Prakasam demanded an apology from the ruling YSRCP and the lead Opposition Telugu Desam Party for ‘supporting the anti-farmer legislations’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-want-state-regulated-markets-bargaining-power/article33244806.ece
04 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. sees two COVID deaths||The death toll due to coronavirus went up to 1,075 in south coastal districts, with two more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. With one death each being reported in Praksam and Nellore districts, the toll increased to 497 and 578 respectively, said a health bulletin that was released by the State Government on Thursday night. New cases increased slightly to 80 during the period, taking the cumulative tally to 1,24,635. The number of active cases stood at 1,067 during the period as 74 patients recovered. The recovery rate stood at 98.68% with 1,22,990 patients recovering from the illness till date. The situation was well under control with new infection dropping below the 50-mark in Prakasam district, said DMHO P. Ratnavalli. The strategy of aggressive testing and isolating positive cases had paid the dividends, she said, adding that close to 6,000 persons are being tested daily with over 100 in each of the public health centres in rural areas and more than 250 patients in each of the health centres in urban areas. Less than 50 of the over 9,000 students and staff members in educational institutions subjected to testing, had been found positive, she added. “We have started training of health professionals for administering vaccine and provided the necessary logistic support for the purpose. Administration of vaccine is likely be started by the month-end, giving preference to frontline COVID-19 warriors, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-die-of-covid-in-south-coastal-andhra-pradesh/article33245428.ece
04 December 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasTADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police foil kidnap bid, trader’s family rescued||The Chintalapudi police rescued a garments trader, Shiva Prasad, and his family members, and arrested two suspected kidnappers of Hyderabad. Six more involved in the crime are yet to be arrested. Shiva Prasad, an APSP constable of Kakinada, resigned from his job eight years ago and started a textiles showroom in Malaysia. He reportedly purchased stocks worth about Rs. 1.5 crore, but reportedly failed to pay the money to the traders, said West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik. After repeated reminders, the traders filed a case against Shiva Prasad in Kushaiguda police station in Hyderabad. Shiva Prasad was reportedly evading the traders since a few months. Kovvur DSP B. Srinath said a few textile traders came to Tadepalligudem on Wednesday night and picked up Shiva Prasad, his wife and daughter . When the vehicle reached Dharmajigudem , Shiva Prasad managed to escape and approached the police. Police said a case had been registered and two persons were taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-foil-kidnap-bid-traders-family-rescued/article33245546.ece
04 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees face tough time as skies open up in Tirumala||Incessant rain lashed the abode of Lord Venkateswara on Thursday. Devotees had a tough time reaching the temple for darshan. The difficulties of those returning from the temple were compounded with the non-availability of cabs and taxis. Meanwhile, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) authorities stepped up vigil on the second ghat road leading to the town as the stretch is vulnerable to land slips when it rains. The engineering wing officials have been instructed to remain alert and monitor the water levels in various dams which are already brimming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/incessant-rain-causes-inconvenience-to-devotees-at-tirumala/article33245429.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan demands Rs. 35,000 aid to Nivar-hit farmers||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) has announced its decision to spearhead a series of programmes aimed at bettering the lives of the farmers in the State. Under the inspiring title ‘Jai Kisan’ coined by former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the party’s flagship programme will soon be rolled out with the immediate issue on hand – flood relief post Cyclone Nivar. “We will take up issues ranging from the well-being of tenant farmers to the steps needed to overcome the middlemen system, and making farming not just remunerative but also profitable,” JSP president Pawan Kalyan said on Thursday. Mr. Pawan Kalyan, who arrived here along with party leader Nadendla Manohar on a three-day visit to the flood-ravaged Chittoor and Nellore districts to assess the damage to crops, addressed the media. He demanded a compensation of Rs. 35,000 to every farmer who had lost his crop and Rs. 10,000 out of it as immediate assistance. “The immediate relief is essential as four farmers had already died as they could not mobilise money to salvage their submerged crops. We cannot wait for more lives to go,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan observed. ‘Not the time for politics’ He further said that the figure of Rs. 35,000 was “not random,” as it was arrived at after elaborate discussion with a cross section of farmers. “It is not the time to play politics. We have to stand by the farmers and infuse confidence in them at this crucial hour,” he said. “In Krishna district, people have come out in large numbers to share their agony and helplessness. In politics, there are times to confront and times to cooperate. We will confront when we feel the government is not doing enough towards relief,” he explained. Referring to the State’s exchequer position, he said, “When you sell liquor and sand to make money, why can’t you pay enough and immediate compensation to the farmers?” Mr. Pawan Kalyan is scheduled to tour Srikalahasti and Thottambedu mandals of Chittoor district and Gudur and Nellore mandals of Nellore district on Friday. After a night halt in Nellore, he will tour Venkatagiri and Rapur mandals of Nellore district on Saturday, before reaching Renigunta airport for his return journey. After his tour, the party will assess the flood damage and send a report to the State as well as the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-demands-rs-35000-aid-to-nivar-hit-farmers/article33245433.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIRRD rolls out first ‘bionic hand’||The Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation of the Disabled (BIRRD), the TTD-run super-specialty orthopaedic hospital, has rolled out what is claimed to be the first indigenous ‘bionic hand’ here on Thursday. TTD trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy virtually launched the product ‘KalArm’ through a video conference on BIRRD campus in the presence of TTD Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar and BIRRD Director Madan Mohan Reddy. With 18 types of grip, the artificial hand can lift up to 8 kg and will be custom-made for patients. The product was developed by the Hyderabad-based Makers Hive Innovations and released on December 3, marking International Day of Disabled Persons. The product is inspired by former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam and hence the name ‘KalArm’. Mr. Subba Reddy said the product was made available at Rs. 2.75 lakh, while its equivalent could cost Rs. 35-40 lakh abroad. This would help disabled persons a lot and boost their confidence. The product would be made available free of cost to the extent possible under the ‘Pranadanam’ scheme. The TTD would also consider tying up with the company to establish an amputation fitment and training centre at BIRRD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/birrd-rolls-out-first-bionic-hand/article33244927.ece
04 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan, Naidu welcome Rajinikanth’s political foray||‘Power Star’ and JSP president Pawan Kalyan has welcomed Tamil ‘Super Star’ Rajinikanth’s decision to take the political plunge. Acknowledging the announcement of Mr. Rajinikanth on Thursday, Mr. Pawan said any newcomer with a fresh ideology should be welcomed with open hands into the arena of politics. Though Mr. Rajinikanth had announced his official entry now, he had already made his presence felt in Tamil Nadu’s political spectrum by offering support to the DMK long ago, he said. “I have been expecting him to enter politics from the day I started acting. It is good that he has taken the decision now,” Mr. Pawan told the media. In his reaction, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu said, “In a democracy, launch of new parties is common. Mr. Rajinikanth is a good friend. I wish him all the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-naidu-welcome-rajinikanths-political-foray/article33245434.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||100-day awareness drive to protect women planned||The Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission has planned three-month-long activities on women protection and awareness. The drive will begin on December 8, according to its Chairperson Vasireddy Padma. The commission, in association with various departments, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and student wings, advocates, police and celebrities, will organise the programmes in all districts, Ms. Padma said at a meeting organised by Mahila Commission in association with Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) with the NGOs here on Thursday. Ms. Padma said rallies, awareness meetings, debates, workshops, grievance cells, webinars, village-level meetings, surprise checks, enlightenment programmes on cyber crime and drive against belt shops and arrack would mark the 100-day programme -- ‘Mahila March @ 100 Days’. “The managements of NGOs have been requested to take part in the 100-day programme and participate in the awareness drive, raids, virtual meetings and other activities,” Ms. Padma said while appreciating the services of NGOs in the State. Govt. thanked Commission Director R. Suez said NGO representatives from Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam, East and West Godavari and Prakasam districts expressed their willingness to join hands to curb crime against women and girls. CRAF State Director P. Francis Thambi thanked the government for introducing several schemes and programmes for protection of women and for taking child-friendly initiatives in the State. He promised to support the 100-day activities, proposed by Mahila Commission, in about 100 child-friendly villages and wards. Child Protection Network (CPN), which has about 800 NGOs membership in AP, will participate in the drive at village, mandal and district levels, said its secretary Denny. V Isaac. Women Commission member Tammisetti Ramadevi, Women Development and Child Welfare Guntur district Project Director B. Manoranjani, Krishna district Assistant Project Director M. Pramila Rani, District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar and representatives of several NGOs across the State were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-day-awareness-drive-to-protect-women-planned/article33244814.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. committed to punishing rape convicts: Sucharitha||The Legislative Assembly passed the AP Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill, 2020, on Thursday. It facilitates faster completion of trial and handing out of punishment in 21 days, for which special courts are proposed to be constituted. Already, 18 Disha police stations and eight POCSO courts were set up to exclusively deal with the crimes against women and children. Moving the Bill, Home Minister M. Sucharitha said the government was firmly committed to awarding stringent punishment to those convicted of rape. Three persons were sentenced to death for raping / murdering girls in the recent months in Chittoor, Nellore and Krishna (Vijayawada) districts. The person convicted of raping and killing a girl in Chittoor was given capital punishment in just five months. Once the special courts were established after the Bill gets the Central clearance, the State government would be well positioned to act with the desired speed against those ruining the lives of unsuspecting women and children. The Minister further said that charge-sheets were filed in one week in 390 cases registered by the Disha police stations. Forensic labs Forensic labs were being set up in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Mangalagiri in Guntur district to help in building up the criminal cases. As the TDP MLAs questioned why the Bill was returned by the Central government in the first instance, after the Home Minister made her statement and when the House was deliberating on the AP Land Titling Bill, 2020, Speaker Thammineni Seetharam turned down their request to speak and advised them to go through the salient features of the Bill, prompting them to walk out in protest.  After the Bill gets Central clearance, the State will act with desired speed against those ruining the lives of unsuspecting women and children. M. Sucharitha Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-punishing-rape-convicts-sucharitha/article33244928.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP observing COVID protocol more in breach, alleges Naidu||TDP president and Leader of the Opposition in Assembly N. Chandrababu Naidu has objected to the “indifferent approach” of Speaker Thammineni Seetharam in enforcing the COVID-19 measures in the House. Addressing the media on Thursday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the Speaker’s approach posed a serious risk to all the MLAs and MLCs attending the winter session of the legislature. When exceptional safeguards such as placing partitions between members were being taken in Parliament, the Assembly Speaker was not putting in place any preventive measure to check spread of the virus. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Ministers and the YSRCP MLAs were “behaving recklessly and putting public health to risk,” Mr. Naidu alleged. YSRCP legislator K. Nageswara Rao had asked all his party leaders to opt for self-quarantine as he had tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Though Home Minister M. Sucharitha attended a meeting in which Mr. Rao was present, she came to the Assembly, that too without wearing a face mask, Mr. Naidu said. “Almost all the ruling party MLAs and MLCs are not wearing masks and are not observing social distance in utter disregard to the COVID-19 protocol,” Mr. Naidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-observing-covid-protocol-more-in-breach-alleges-naidu/article33245435.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land titling Bill passed||The Legislative Assembly on Thursday passed the A.P. Land Titling Bill, 2020 by voice vote. It is intended to create a mechanism for a Land Information System and an Authority to manage the same. The most important of its objectives is to introduce a “guaranteed titling system”. Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das said the government contemplated distributing title deeds under the new system once the comprehensive survey of lands was completed. TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu suggested to the Minister to drop the legislation, saying that the Kiran Kumar Reddy and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy governments attempted a similar exercise but failed for various reasons. Even the TDP Government had unsuccessfully tried to do a re-survey of lands. He alleged that the government allotted a staggering Rs. 1,000 crore for the Statewide survey, including Rs. 600 crore for procuring stones used to mark the lands. Responding to him, Mr. Krishna Das said the government had done its homework on factors that led to the alleged failure of previous attempts to streamline the titling system, and it was confident of coming out with flying colours. Municipal Bill The Assembly also passed AP Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 for securing funds from the 15th Finance Commission and overhauling the tax administration, which includes a 10 to 15% tax hike on capital value of buildings with certain exceptions. Mr. Atchannaidu’s demand that the Bill should be referred to a select committee for studying its impact was brushed aside. The Assembly also approved the AP Electricity Duty (Amendment) Bill, 2020, tabled by Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-titling-bill-passed/article33245439.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC hears government’s plea to not hold civic polls in February||A single Judge Bench of the High Court of Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu adjourned to December 4 the hearing of a petition filed by the State government against the proposed conduct of local body elections in February 2021. The government’s contention was that the State Election Commission (SEC) had unilaterally decided to hold the civic polls in February without considering the likelihood of further spread of coronavirus. Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi said in an affidavit that COVID-19 reached terrifying proportions with peak cases reported in August and September. The total number of positive cases reported as on November 29 was 8,67,638 and 6,988 had so far died. The entire machinery of the State was and still was dedicated to containing the pandemic. The Chief Secretary wrote a letter to the State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar requesting him not to proceed with the election process stating that the conditions were not conducive, but he held an all-party meeting on October 28 and resolved to hold the elections in February 2021 without complying with the Supreme Court's order to consult the government. The government prayed to the court to direct the SEC to reconsider its decision having regard to the attendant circumstances and to not act against its opinion. The matter was adjourned to Friday for further documentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-hears-governments-plea-to-not-hold-civic-polls-in-february/article33245441.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crop loss compensation by month-end: Collector||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has asked farmers who were affected by cyclone Nivar in the district not to worry about crop damage as the government is ready to purchase yield and disburse input subsidy by December 30. Addressing the mediapersons along with Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha here on Thursday, Mr. Imtiaz said that as per the preliminary estimations crops in 1.84 lakh hectares were damaged during the rain on November 27 and 28. Mr. Imtiaz further said that enumeration of crop damage was under way, and by December 15, a clear picture of the extent of damage would emerge. By December 30, the government would also provide input subsidy to the farmers, he said. The compensation towards damaged crops would also be given by the end of the month, he said. He said the government had estimated yield at 16.5 lakh metric tonnes and 38 purchase centres were set up to buy 10 lakh metric tonnes of yield. Mr. Imtiaz said two tenant farmers ended their lives in the district and officials concerned were conducting a probe. Farmers can dial 1800 425 4402 toll-free helpline number for information regarding crop damage, compensation and others, he said. Helpline Also, Dial Your Joint Collector programme would be conducted from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. daily for 10 days in the district for farmers. Those looking for information and support can dial 0866-2577144.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crop-loss-compensation-by-month-end-collector/article33244807.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP decries ‘deteriorating’ law & order||TDP MLAs and MLCs led by their president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday took out a rally near the Assembly to protest against the “deteriorating law and order” situation in the State. In a symbolic protest, MLC and TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh put shackles to his hands. Telugu Desam Legislature Party deputy leader K. Atchannaidu, former Minister N. Chinarajappa and others were present. The party MLAs held placards and raised slogans decrying the atrocities being committed against the SC, ST, BC and Muslim Minorities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-decries-deteriorating-law-order/article33245437.ece
04 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Role limited to treatment, says Ramesh Hospitals||Ramesh Hospitals general manager J. Rajasekhar clarified through a press release that the hospital’s M.G. Road branch was responsible only for the treatment of COVID patients, nursing, paramedical and ambulance services and round-the-clock monitoring of patients. Hotel Swarna Palace, where COVID patients were being treated by doctors from Ramesh Hospitals, was supposed to provide the facilities required by the persons infected by COVID, and other amenities and collect the room rent from patients undergoing treatment. Agreement An agreement to this effect was reached by Ramesh Hospitals with Hotel Swarna Palace MD M. Srinivas. Records of audio conversations and WhatsApp messages between the two parties to the agreement were furnished to the Police Department as per Section. 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Five pulmonologists, five cardiologists and two general medicine specialists from Ramesh Hospitals treated the patients as per the COVID protocols and procedures related to fees were followed in a transparent manner. Mr. Rajasekhar further said the officials concerned in the Medical & Health Department (M&HD) gave the clearance for setting up COVID care centre in Hotel Swarna Palace which was recognised (by the M&HD). The hotel had prior permission for placing foreign returnees in quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-centre-fire-ramesh-hospitals-says-its-role-limited-to-treatment/article33244811.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outrage after patient’s relative attacks doctor at area hospital||Doctors and staff of Paderu Area Hospital, on Thursday, staged a protest after a duty doctor was reportedly assaulted by a patient’s relative on Wednesday night. The doctors accused authorities concerned of apathy, alleging that no steps were taken to put security in place despite repeated requests. The Paderu police said they had received a complaint on Wednesday night that one K. Rambabu, a teacher from Paderu, had allegedly assaulted Dr. Ajay at the Paderu Area Hospital, alleging medical negligence in the death of his uncle. Police said that following the complaint, they have registered a case and would arrest Rambabu after he finishes the final rituals of his uncle scheduled on Thursday. ‘Not the first time’ On Thursday morning, health personnel from the hospital boycotted their duties and staged a protest over the incident. Alleging that this was not the first time that a doctor was manhandled at the hospital, the doctors demanded that officials make arrangements for security personnel with immediate effect. The doctors said that there has been a long-pending for arranging a police outpost at the hospital, and despite complaining about the menace by drunkards at the hospital, none of the officials have treated the issue with seriousness. The doctors also alleged that Rambabu, who attacked Dr. Ajay, was drunk at the time of the incident. “There are many occasions when locals abused and used derogatory words against nurses and woman doctors when we reminded them that there should be only one relative staying with the patient at the hospital. Many locals enter the hospital in an inebriated condition. We come from faraway places to serve in the Agency and this is the kind of treatment that we have to put up with,” a woman doctor said. The doctors said that if such attacks continue, none of the doctors would agree to be posted at the Paderu hospital in future. Additional District Medical & Health Officer (ADMHO-Paderu) Dr. Leela Prasad said that the patient was admitted in the hospital with blood vomitings in a critical stage and died while undergoing treatment. Condemning the attack on the doctor, the ADMHO informed the media that he had spoken to the ITDA Project Officer, police and other officials concerned and is expecting strict action against the attacker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outrage-after-patients-relatives-attack-doctor/article33245481.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC sets sight on Swachh Survekshan 2021||After securing a spot in the category of top 10 cleanest cities across the country in 2019, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is now all geared up for Swachh Survekshan 2021. Keeping a check on waste management, conducting coordination meets with concerned departments and sensitising the ward volunteers to be in readiness for the upcoming SS 2021, the corporation is leaving no stone unturned in aiming for a much better rank in the coming survey. Speaking about their preparations for the upcoming survey, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that there are systematic improvements in the corporation compared to last year and the civic body has also put in a lot of effort into improving on several areas in which it had fell behind in the previous survey, in order to improve its ranking further. “Having sanitation secretaries is an addition this year. They are playing a huge role in helping the GVMC promote the Swachhata app, door-to-door garbage collection, source segregation and home composting,” Ms. Srijana said. Another positive for the corporation is that by the end of this month, we will go for a trial run of the much awaited Waste to Energy recyling plant at Kapuluppada, which can process 100% waste. This plant will definitely help us in GFC Star ratings this year,” the civic chief said. “Biomining was not started last year, but this year, the plant was established. A biogas plant for the wet waste processing is also in the implementation stage. The UGD now has proper machinery to clean manholes,” she added. It may be noted that the corporation secured three stars in Garbage Free Cities (GFC) ratings in 2019. This year, they have declared Vizag to be a seven-star rated city, which will be assessed by a third party. Meanwhile in certification, the civic body is aiming for ‘water plus’. For ODF++, the city should have safe disposal of faecal sludge and for ‘water plus’, the water should be reused. “Since we already have agreements and documentation for treating sludge and sale of water, we are aiming for greater than ODF++. We have submitted documents and are awaiting the results,” Ms. Srijana said. Learning its lessons Learning lessons from the past, the GVMC has also focused on proper utilisation of the Swachhata app and having better Citizen Feedback. These are two areas where the GVMC has scored less marks compared to a few cities which secured ranks better than them. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that last year, the corporation used to receive few complaints through the Swachhata app, but this year, 2,000 complaints are being received on an average every month and the GVMC is also responding to them instantly. Chief Medical & Health Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry said that 1 lakh dustbins (in green, blue and red colour) are being provided to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) families to encourage source segregation. Of them, 50,000 dustbins are being provided by HPCL, he said. IEC campaigns, short films, and awareness programmes are being held on a large scale, Mr. Sastry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-sets-sight-on-swachh-survekshan-2021/article33245563.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Vikrant may be inducted by 2022-23, says ENC Chief||The aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, which is being built in the Cochin Shipyard, may be inducted into the Indian Navy some time in 2022-23, said the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Eastern Naval Command, Atul Kumar Jain. The Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) will be based in ENC and form a formidable force in the Indo-Pacific region with other assets such as the SSN (sub surface nuclear) submarines that are being proposed under Project 75 Alpha, said Vice-Admiral Jain, here on Thursday. Addressing the press at the annual meet, he said the Indian Navy was on the verge of becoming a formidable blue water force by tuning well with the ‘make in India’ or ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’. “Today, the IAC is being built in India, which will be followed by Shivalik-class multi-role frigates and Kamorta-class anti-submarine warfare corvettes. Five to 10 years down the line, we visualise a dominant naval force with indigenous capabilities. And for that to happen we need all including PSUs, Navy, MSME and startups to work together as a team,” he said. He said that bilateral and multilateral naval exercises had been yielding good results and the exercise with Japan, Russia and the USA, had been useful in checking China. According to him, Australia joining the Malabar exercise this year was a game changer, as now the Indian Navy drones, ships and P8I aircraft could patrol without any hindrance till Sunda Strait. Expanding economy The Vice-Admiral said that for the government to achieve the vision of a five trillion economy, the naval might and maritime security needed to be strengthened. “About 70% of the trade in value and 80% in volume happens through the sea and we have a number of threats including from China and piracy. The role of the Indian Navy is to see that trade is free of any disturbances. We have been providing security 24/7 to our merchant ships in sensitive zones such as the Gulf of Aden, but with the mounting challenge we need more assets and ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ will help achieve that,” he said. Coastal security The chief of ENC said coastal security after 26/11 had become a priority and the ENC had been playing its role in eastern seaboard by not only maintaining a tight vigil along the long coastline but also stepping up surveillance at all entry and exit routes. Agreeing that China had greater numbers both in terms of manpower and naval assets, Mr. Jain pointed out that India was way ahead of Pakistan in naval might. “We have recently successfully test fired anti-ship missiles such as Uran and Brahmos. During the 1971 war, our missile corvettes had to go close to Karachi to fire the missiles, now we can fire them from beyond visual range both from ships and underwater platforms,” he said. Women were slowly being inducted into ships and combat duty. “We already have two women in INS Vikramaditya in the Western Fleet and two in INS Shakti in ENC. Very soon women will also fly naval helicopters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ins-vikrant-may-be-inducted-by-2022-23-says-enc-chief/article33245263.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rasta roko organised in support of agitating ryots||CITU Greater Visakha City Committee president R.K.S.V. Kumar has demanded immediate withdrawal of the Farm Bills brought out by the Centre, which he said are detrimental to the interests of farmers. A rasta roko was organised by Muta Kalasis, under the aegis of CITU, to express solidarity with the farmers who are on a protest in Delhi opposing the Farm Bills, near the Swarna Bharati Indoor stadium here on Thursday. Addressing the workers, Mr. Kumar alleged that the Farm Bills were meant to serve the interests of the corporate companies. The Centre, instead of providing Minimum Support Price (MSP) to the farmers, was bent on providing corporates an opportunity to store the grains and sell when prices rise. “The government was using tear gas and water cannons to prevent the protesting farmers from continuing their agitation. The protest by the farmers in the biting cold in Delhi, indicates their resolve,” Mr. Kumar said, and sought the cooperation of all sections of workers to make the farmers’ agitation a success. CITU Maddilapalem Zone president V. Krishna, secretary A. Simhachalam and party leaders K. Kumari, A. Appa Rao, Bhooloka Rao and Gurunadha Reddy were among those who participated in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rasta-roko-held-in-support-of-agitating-ryots/article33245480.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TU-142, Kursura museums reopen after seven months||After a gap of over seven months, the TU-142 Aircraft Museum and INS Kursura Submarine Museum at RK Beach were reopened to the public by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), here on Thursday. The museums were closed in March after the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. On Thursday, both the museums received a fair amount of visitors. VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao said that they have taken all precautionary measures at the museums keeping in view the COVID-19 situation. A feasiblity study was conducted over reopening of the two museums and a trial run was also held. A meeting was also arranged with Navy personnel to discuss the measures to be taken at the museums. “Both museums contain sensitive equipment and we cannot simply spray disinfectants. The Navy personnel trained the staff on steps to ensure COVID-19 protocol inside the museums,” Mr. Koteswara Rao said. “Earlier, we used to allow 10 to 12 visitors at once. But now, we are limiting the number of visitors to seven. Wearing of masks is mandatory at the museums. Moreover, there will be no guides. Visitors can use the display boards to know more about the museums,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tu-142-kursura-museums-reopen-after-seven-months/article33245555.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keeping pandemic at bay a challenge, says ENC chief||Handling COVID-19 on one hand and ensuring that the force was in combat readiness proved to be a major challenge for the Eastern Naval Command, said its Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Atul Kumar Jain. Speaking to reporters on the eve of Navy Day here on Thursday, he said, “We had teething problems immediately after the lockdown, but we settled down quickly and put things back on track. The challenge was to contain the spread onboard naval ships and submarines.” “Our ships and submarines are compactly built and sailors and officers, who number around 300 in each ship, live in bunkers. So, keeping COVID at bay was a challenge that we face even today. Fortunately, there have been no cases so far,” he said, appreciating all the staff for rising to the occasion. The chief of ENC informed that two ships from ENC – INS Jalashwa and Airavat, were deployed for the Samudra Setu operation, which was responsible for bringing home Indian citizens stranded in Sri Lanka and Maldives, at the peak of the outbreak. “We brought home around 3,900 of our citizens and during that period, we had to accommodate 750 of our citizens in Jalashwa, when its staff capacity is around 300 men and officers. Our cooks on board worked 24/7 to provide meals to the evacuees,” he said. Luckily, no was infected onboard, as we maintained a good hygienic environment and followed all protocols. Our sailors and officers gave their bunkers to the evacuees, he said. He also appreciated Naval Dockyard-Visakhapatnam for innovatively designing and producing ‘Portable Multi-feed Oxygen Manifold (MOM)’. These instruments had come in handy for the oxygen-fed beds in COVID hospitals. “We delivered 35 such instruments to various district COVID hospitals. NDV also designed and manufactured remotely controlled body temperature monitor,” he said. Milan-2020 deferred Vice-Admiral Jain pointed out that Milan-2020, a multilateral exercise, which was supposed to be held from March 18 to 27, was cancelled due to COVID and will now be held in March 2022. “We are trying to coincide the event with the Presidential Fleet Review, and the dates are to be finalised,” he said. Navies from 41 countries had confirmed their participation in the Milan exercise, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keeping-pandemic-at-bay-a-challenge-enc-chief/article33245482.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special train services extended till year-end||The Railways has announced extension of some special train services till December-end in order to cater to the year-end festive rush. The timings of some special express train timings have been revised with effect from December 1, 2020. Passengers have been advised to check the revised timings on the official railway website. The special trains which have been extended are: 02835 Hatia-Yesvantapur special express, leaving Hatia on Tuesdays, till December 29, and in the return direction, 02836 Yesvantpur-Hatia special express, leaving Yesvantpur on Fridays, has been extended till January 1, 2021, officials said. Train 02889 Tata Nagar-Yesvantpur special express, leaving Tata Nagar on Fridays, has been extended till December 25. In the return direction, 02890 Yesvantpur-Tata Nagar special express, leaving Yesvantpur on Mondays, has been extended till December 28, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. The train services extended are: 02873 Howrah-Yesvantpur special express, leaving Howrah daily extended till December 30. In the return direction, 02874 Yesvantpur-Howrah special express, leaving Yesvantpur daily, extended till January 1, 2021. The 02877 Howrah-Ernakulam special express, leaving Howrah on Saturdays, has been extended till December 26. In the return direction, 02878 Ernakulam-Howrah special express, leaving Ernakulam on Tuesdays, has been extended till December 29. The 02867 Howrah-Puducherry special express, leaving Howrah on Sundays, has been extended till December 27. In the return direction, 02868 Puducherry-Howrah express, leaving Puduchery on Wednesdays, has been extended till December 30, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-train-services-extended-till-year-end/article33245558.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint survey begins at AOB to resolve dispute||A joint survey by officials from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha to resolve a border dispute in the Andhra-Odisha Border region in Visakha Agency began on Thursday. About 20 days ago, some villagers of Koraput district in Odisha, accompanied by some officials, walked into Kolaput panchayat in Visakhapatnam district and allegedly tried to forcibly encroach about 600 metres on the AP side. They also reportedly removed the boards and stones demarcating the border and shifted them about 600 metres inside the A.P. side. Since then tribal people from Decapadu, Bodalamamidi, Nitamamidi and Kolaput had been staging dharna and demanding the authorities to resolve the issue. On Thursday, DFO, RDO, local tahsildar and Divisional Surveyors visited the spot and undertook the survey. According to ITDA PO S. Venkateswar, the survey began with the identification of border stone, ssome dating back to the Madras Presidency-Orissa (now Odisha) time. Meanwhile, members of AP Girijan Sangham alleged that some political leaders from Odisha were trying to annex the border with an eye on mining granite on a few hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joint-survey-begins-at-aob-to-resolve-dispute/article33245442.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wheelchairs given to differently-abled||Wheelchairs, assistive devices and developmental aids for adults and children with special needs were given away by Ability Rehabilitation Centre (ARC) with the support from RINL-CSR Initiatives, Vizag Steel, on the occasion of International Day of Persons with Disabilities on Thursday. The special aids were given away to 19 beneficiaries to create a measurable and sustainable impact in the lives of Persons with Disabilites (PwDs) in under privileged communities. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam participated as chief guest, General Manager (CSR), RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, K. Satyanarayana and Assistant Director of the Department of Disabled Welfare G.V.R. Sarma, Una Dilip Kumar Patro, Director, Ability Rehabilitation Center (ARC) was present. Prizes were given to differently-abled persons who took part in various activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wheelchairs-given-to-differently-abled/article33245549.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to hold workshop on ‘scouring and erosion’||International Society for Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering (ISSMGE), Indian Geotechnical Society (IGS) in association with Department of Civil Engineering, Andhra University College of Engineering, will organise an online international workshop on ‘Scour and Erosion’ on December 16. Vice-Chancellor Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy released the brochure of the workshop here on Thursday. Organisers said the workshop is intended to create awareness and expose civil engineering professionals to the causes for soil erosion/scour and impart knowledge on mitigation methods. A large number of participants are expected to participate. The workshop brochure can be downloaded from AU’s website or the ISSMGE website. Registration for the event will be done before December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-to-hold-workshop-on-scouring-and-erosion/article33245550.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intelligence wing inspects dog squad||Officials from the Intelligence Security Wing (ISW), Vijayawada inspected the dog squad at the Armed Reserve District Police Headquarters, here in the city on Thursday. Reserve Inspector T.N. Srinivasa Rao, Inspector G.R.C. Reddy, and veterinary doctor Pratap enquired about the health condition and observed the attentiveness and response of the dogs. They also checked their weight and body temperature and conducted medical tests. Currently, the district police has 10 dogs in which six are trained in detecting explosives. While two canines were trained in detecting drugs, two are trackers. The officials have asked the trainers to provide constant training to the canines. DSP R.P.L. Shanti Kumar and Reserve Inspector B. Ramakrishna Rao were present at the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intelligence-wing-inspects-dog-squad/article33245553.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 teams from RINL bag quality control awards||Three teams from Visakhapatnam Steel Plant — ‘AMPS’ from blast furnace, ‘Yantrik’ from CO & CCP and ‘New Wings’ from LMMM, have bagged platinum awards at the International Convention on Quality Control Circles (ICQCC-2020), organised by the Bangladesh Society for Total Quality Management (BSTQM), which was held online at Dhaka, Bangladesh, from December 1 to 3. The blast furnace team stood first in the platinum category. More than 250 teams from various countries including China, Philippines, Singapore, Indonesia, South Korea, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, participated in the competition. P.K. Rath, CMD, RINL congratulated the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-teams-from-rinl-bag-quality-control-awards/article33245556.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entry, exit restrictions eased at railway station||Passengers departing from Visakhapatnam Railway Station or arriving in the city can now enter and exit either from the main entrance on Platform 1 or from the rear entrance on the Gnanapuram side (Platform 8) with effect from December 4. Hitherto, entry and exit was restricted in view of the pandemic situation. Passengers would have to use the Gnanapuram side for entering the station and use the Platform 1 gate to exit. Keeping in view public demand and for the sake of convenience of the passengers, the authorities of Waltair Division have decided to allow the entry and exit of passengers from both sides. Now, passengers having confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter or exit from both sides. Two gates on each side will be opened for passage of bonafide passengers, earmarking one gate for entry and the other gate for exit. Authorities appealed to passengers to follow all safety protocols. All passengers will be screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to enter/board the trains. Passengers travelling by these special services should observe health protocols by wearing face covers/masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/entry-exit-restrictions-eased-at-railway-station/article33245559.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia paid to family of head nurse||An amount for Rs. 50 lakh was handed over to the family members of Head Nurse of Visakha Steel General Hospital (VSGH) D. Vijaya Kumari, who succumbed to COVID-19 recently, at a programme held on Thursday. Vijaya Kumari had died of COVID-19 which she had contracted while on duty on September 12. Due to the efforts of VSGH Chief General Manager K.H. Prakash, an amount of Rs. 50 lakh was sanctioned to her family under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Garib Yojana. Deputy General Manager of New India Assurance C.G. Prasad, Divisional Manager P. Naveen Kumar and Dr. Prakash transferred the amount to her daughters Manisha and Mrudula through RTGS and handed over the papers to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-paid-to-family-of-head-nurse/article33245561.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate crosses 98%||The COVID-19 recovery rate has crossed 98% in Visakhapatnam district. As many as 159 persons have recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries to 57,812, which is 98.19% of the total cases. Active cases have come below the 600-mark and stand at 549. The district reported 73 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 58,873. Officials confirmed one more death due to the virus, taking the toll to 512.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-crosses-98/article33245564.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in wall collapse||A contract worker died while two others were injured when a wall, which was under construction at an industry in Malkapuram area, collapsed on Thursday night. The body was trapped under the debris and efforts are being made to retrieve it. Police reached the spot. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-wall-collapse/article33245565.ece
04 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||More rain likely||The cyclonic storm ‘Burevi’, close to Pamban, moved westwards and weakened into a deep depression. It is very likely to weaken further into a depression by the morning of December 4. Under its influence, thundershowers and lightning with isolated heavy rainfall are likely to occur at isolated places in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on Friday and Saturday, according to the Indian Meteorological Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-rain-likely/article33245560.ece
04 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly norms being violated: TDP leaders||Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and TDP forme r State president Kimidi Kala Venakta Rao on Thursday alleged that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government was ignoring all the constitutional norms and violating all procedures in the Assembly. The TDP leaders held a meeting with the party in-charges of all Assembly segments under the Vizianagaram Parliamentary constituency. TDP Rajam in-charge Kondru Muralimohan, former Gajapathinagaram MLA K.A.Naidu and Vizianagaram Parliamentary party president Kimidi Nagarjuna and others who attended the meeting were told to highlight the ‘injustices meted out to former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and TDP MLAs in the Assembly’. Speaking to the media, Mr. Venakta Rao said that the people would teach a lesson to the YSRCP in the local body elections. He congratulated the party’s new general secretary I.V.P. Raju. The names of all other committee members with regard to Vizianagaram Parliamentary constituency would be announced soon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assembly-norms-being-violated-tdp-leaders/article33245479.ece
04 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Beekeeping ensures decent income for farmers’||Several agriculture officials and scientists urged farmers to concentrate on honey bee farming to earn more income with less investment, which has already benefited many farmers across the country. The vegetation in Vizianagaram district was very much suitable for apiculture, they said. The Horticulture Department organised a three-day training programme for farmers in Vasanta village of Gantyada mandal. Principal Scientist of the Agriculture Research Station (Pedavegi of West Godavari district) K. Mohana Rao told the trainees that a small investment of Rs. 1.5 lakh would be sufficient to develop honey bee colonies. Mr. Mohana Rao, who has a PhD in apiculture, said that Western Honey Bees (Apil Mellifera), Wild Rock Bees (Apil Dorsata) and other varieties would fetch more honey as they would be able to fly over a long distance – up to 8 km. “The farmers need to set up at least 10 bee hive boxes. Around 8 kg of honey can be collected within two and half months. Each kg sells around Rs. 400. More honey can be extracted during flowering season between December and February,” he explained. Horticulture Deputy Director R. Srinivasa Rao and Assistant Director G.V. Lakshmi expressed happiness over the positive response from many farmers to the training programme. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the department had requested the government to ensure subsidy for farmers who would like to take up beekeeping. Integrated Rural People Welfare Association director P.K. Prakasha Rao and Jai Vinayaka Farmer Producers founder Parvataneni Sri Lakshmi said the training programme would continue extensively in all villages of the mandal till the end of the year. Horticulture officer B. Umabharani and other officials clarified the doubts of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beekeeping-ensures-decent-income-for-farmers/article33245447.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||50-day awareness drive on COVID begins in Anantapur||The district administration on Thursday launched a 50-day campaign involving all government departments and people from all walks of life to bring awareness to stringently follow all the COVID-19 protocols without impacting economic activity. On second wave Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Joint Collector (VS&WS) A. Siri told the media that in view of the possible second wave of the infection, which already caught a severe form in some European countries, the U.S., and some States in India, the State government had suggested formation of task forces at the district and mandal levels to ensure three aspects—compulsorily wearing of mask, maintaining physical distance and hand washing. Catchy slogans Releasing a timetable of activities to be followed by each government department, schools, colleges, NGOs, and different sections of the society on each day till January 19, 2021, Mr. Chandrudu said that three slogans were coined in Telugu —Mask Sarriga Pettu - Corona Aata Kattu (wear mask properly - stop the COVID game); Aaru adugulu Dooram - Corona meeku dooram (six-foot distance - Corona will be away from you) and Mana Arogyam - Mana Chethullo / Chethulu Shubhram - Arogyam Bhadram (our health in our hands and clean hands safe health) as part of the campaign. The district has witnessed 66,000 positive cases after conducting 8 lakh tests till date and the positivity rate has come down to 8% and death rate to below 1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-day-awareness-drive-launched-against-covid/article33245425.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s COVID-19 infection tally crosses 8.7 lakh||The State’s COVID infection tally crossed 8.7 lakh with detection of 664 new infections in the past 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The death toll reached 7,014 with 11 new deaths and the death rate remains at 0.81%. The tally increased to 8,70,076 and the number of recoveries also increased to 8,56,320  as 835 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 98.42% while there are 6,742 patients undergoing treatment across the State. The number of samples tested in the past day increased to 63,049 and the daily positivity rate came down to 1.05%. The overall positivity rate of 1.02 crore samples tested so far was 8.51% and the tests per million ratio increased to 1.91 lakh. Nine districts reported new deaths, and Krishna and Chittoor reported two each. They were followed by Anantapur, Kadapa, Nellore, Prakasam, Visakhpatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari which reported one death each. Also, Krishna and Chittoor reported 105 new infections each in the past day and stand above the remaining districts whose tally was less than 100. Visakhapatnam reported 73 new infections while Guntur reported 72, West Godavari reported 70, East Godavari reported 67, Prakasam 40, Nellore 34, Anantapur 29, Kadapa 21, Vizianagaram 19, Kurnool 19 and Srikakulam 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-covid-19-infection-tally-crosses-87-lakh/article33245431.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Falling on hard times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/falling-on-hard-times/article33245451.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All hands on deck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-hands-on-deck/article33245548.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye in the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-in-the-sky/article33245444.ece
04 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Action plan on course to check monkey menace||Even as several villages and towns in the coal belt region and elsewhere in the district continue to grapple with monkey menace, the district administration has chalked out an action plan to implement a fortnight-long special drive from December 11 to surmount the problem. The move has been necessitated following a slew of complaints from aggrieved farmers and denizens of various towns mainly located in the coal mining region and along the periphery of reserve forest areas about the onslaught by hordes of marauding monkeys, almost a daily ordeal for many of them. The efforts by some local bodies to check the menace by deploying langurs in adherence to biological control methods proved ineffective in the past. This has prompted some of the aggrieved persons to explore new ways including using improvised devices made in some other states that generate loud sound to scare away monkeys at the farmlands to save their crops from packs of unruly simians, sources said. It may be noted that the government horticulture farm at Achyutapuram in Aswaraopeta mandal was raided by a strong troop of around 300 monkeys causing severe damage to hundreds of mango grafts a few years ago. Sources attributed the rise in monkey menace to depletion of the natural habitat of monkeys in the coal belt region over the past few years. Collector M.V. Reddy has directed the officials of the Municipal Administration and Panchayat Raj departments to implement a fortnight long drive from December 11 to 25 to check the menace of monkeys by capturing and releasing them in deep forests, sources added. When contacted, Yellandu Municipal Commissioner A. Srinivas Reddy told The Hindu that as many as 1,422 monkeys were trapped by a team of monkey catchers from Tirupati at different locations in the coal town in the past one and a half months. The trapped monkeys were released into dense forests bordering Mulugu district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/action-plan-on-course-to-check-monkey-menace/article33245365.ece
04 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Parties do not expect any serious reversal of estimates||A day before the counting of GHMC polls, political parties are pretty clear about where they stand and the two major parties — Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — don’t expect any serious reversal of their estimates made after polling. It looks amply clear that the ruling party will emerge the strongest despite losing a few of their existing seats followed by the BJP, which will not be seriously disappointed either, even if they end up at 20 odd. However, the contesting candidates will surely spend a sleepless night. The TRS leaders spent little time analysing the polling or the expected results on Thursday with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in Nakrekal for the funeral of TRS MLA Nomula Narsimhaiah. TRS working president and Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who was the face and the figure of the party in the campaign, too was busy visiting his constituency Sircilla far away from the GHMC limits. A senior leader agreed that they would anyway emerge as the largest party and there was little to worry. “We will win more than 75 seats, which is quite commendable for the fact that we are not seriously in contention in 45 seats in Old City, where MIM is strong. So, winning 75 in 105 would be quite satisfactory.” The Congress, which was morally down with their performance in Dubbak, lost the plot initially itself, with the BJP whipping up the nationalistic euphoria and deliberately letting the religious narrative emerge in the campaign. The ruling TRS too, made it out as a fight between BJP and TRS leaving little space for Congress to join the battle. The party now prefers to just watch the outcome, realising there is nothing for them to anxiously wait for. Its only interest however, is to watch the vote share it received in each division. The winning seats, even if they are in single digit, will help the leaders make a political statement within the party. The results will stir up discussion on the leadership and the clamour for change will get shriller. The exit polls by various agencies showed huge variations in their projections for different parties both in terms of numbers and share of votes, and their projections seem to be increasingly off the radar. The winning number for the ruling party ranged from 68 to 102 and for the main challenger BJP between five and 35 in different surveys, totally confusing voters. Political parties, however, have their methods of arriving at a rough figure and they expect the final results to be similar to that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parties-do-not-expect-any-serious-reversal-of-estimates/article33245353.ece
04 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Poll percentage has a few surprises||The final polling percentage of the December 1 Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation election has quite a few surprises among the wards that were affected by October floods in the city. While Chaitanyapuri, Saroornagar, R.K. Puram and Kothapet in the eastern part of Hyderabad showed voter apathy in comparison to 2016 elections, the southern parts of the city showed a higher voter turnout as compared to 2016. Both areas were affected by floods and a large number of residents received Rs. 10,000 solatium announced by the Telangana government. This dip in numbers in the eastern parts of the city has added an interesting dimension to the contest. In 2016, the R.K. Puram ward was won by the Bharatiya Janata Party with 45.35% voters favouring it while the Telangana Rashtra Samithi logged 38.07% votes. Chaitanyapuri, Saroornagar, Kothapet and Gaddiannaram were won by the TRS candidates. The flood-affected wards in the southern part of the city which recorded high voter turnout have been the bastion of All India Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen. In 2016, the party scored above 80% votes in Falaknuma, Nawabsahebkunta, Jahanuma and above 50% in Doodbowli and Kishenbagh. The KPHB Colony seat that was won by the Telugu Desam Party in 2016 with a margin of 10% votes recorded a blip of 54 more votes in 2020. The marginal increase in voting percentage may impact some of the seats where the margin of victory was thin. “The TRS won 16 seats with less than 10% margin. A big swing will be detrimental to the prospect of TRS,” says Anant Maringanti of Hyderabad Urban Labs after analysing the polling percentages. In five of these wards A.S.Rao Nagar, Champapet, Goshamahal, Qutbullapur and Vengalrao Nagar there was a decline in the number of voters ranging from a few hundred to two thousand adding an unknown edge to an edgy contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poll-percentage-has-a-few-surprises/article33245343.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Giant trees inside Secretariat getting ready for translocation||Giant trees with their leaves, branches and roots neatly trimmed will soon be making their way out on heavy duty trucks from within the sprawling compound of the broken down Secretariat buildings. Vata Foundation, the voluntary agency, has began the trimming exercise and digging around the roots as a prelude to the gigantic task of translocating the 33-odd fully grown trees to a private land in Shamshabad on Thursday. The government has permitted relocation of these decades old trees rather than allow them to be chopped off and sold as firewood following appeals made by environmentalists and green activists. Free service “We had offered our services for free because there are citizens willing to support this initiative. The government departments are helping us to uproot and lift them onto the trucks for the permitted batch of trees,” explained P. Uday Krishna. The Founder-Trustee of Vata Foundation said it could take more than a week to translocate the trees and said the cost of the replantation and their transport is being borne by the private party interested in replanting the trees in its own property. While appreciative of being allowed to save the fully grown trees, he is shocked the Forest Department gave permission for “felling” of up to 70 trees inside the compound. “Every tree can be saved by translocation irrespective of the age and species. There is no need for felling. Given a chance, we want to save and relocate those permitted for felling also. We have made a request but do not know who will take the final call,” he said. Mr. Uday Krishna’s and his batch of green volunteers contention is most of the 300-odd trees, if not all, located inside can be translocated. “There are many citizens ready to adopt and plant these fully grown trees in their respective properties. We once again appeal to the Roads & Buildings, GHMC, and the Forest departments to allow us to save as many trees as possible,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/giant-secretariat-trees-ready-for-translocation/article33245373.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records revenue deficit of Rs. 15,000 crore||The State government has amassed a revenue deficit of Rs. 15,319 crore up to October-end even as it is struggling to steady its coffers in the aftermath of downturn owing to COVID this financial year. The deficit was just Rs. 4,640 crore during the corresponding period last year and Rs. 3,934 crore in 2018. A deficit of such a big size this year was on account of an expenditure of Rs. 61,633 crore while the revenue receipts were only Rs. 46,314 crore. It amounted to (-) 341 % of the budgeted revenue estimate of (+) Rs. 4,482 crore up to October, according to the data released by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The tax and non-tax revenues continue to be a matter of grave concern for the State government at a time when it is trying to steady its financial position in the face of the pandemic induced downturn. The tax revenues up to October were Rs. 38,530 crore against the budgeted Rs. 1.02 lakh crore for 2020-21. The non-tax revenue was Rs. 1,781 crore against Rs. 30,600 crore. The tax revenues ranged from Rs. 6,500 crore to Rs. 6,700 crore from June to October while they were only Rs. 1,700 crore in April and Rs. 3,682 crore in May. Barring June and August, the non-tax revenues never crossed Rs. 300 crore in a month. Another matter of concern was that the government had already borrowed 83.19 % of its budgeted estimates till October and with heavy spendings which are generally reserved for the last quarter there was little chance for major capital infusion to meet the expenditure. The borrowings so far were Rs. 27,619 crore against Rs. 33,191 crore for the whole year. This was despite the government going slow on borrowings in September and October. As usual, GST collections constituted the largest chunk of tax revenues at Rs. 12,887 crore followed by sales-tax at Rs. 10,097 crore and excise duties at Rs. 7,611 crore. The State’s share of Union taxes was Rs. 4,282 crore against an estimated Rs. 10,906 crore. On the expenditure side, salaries and wages accounted for Rs. 12,582 crore, pensions Rs. 2,840 crore and subsidies Rs. 5,129 crore. Expenditure on revenue account was Rs. 31,956 crore out of the budgeted Rs. 78,536 crore for the whole year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-revenue-deficit-of-rs-15000-crore/article33245351.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||People cautioned against post-COVID risks||People belonging to vulnerable group who have recovered from severe COVID-19 were suggested to consult doctors for three to six months, and up to a year if necessary. Telangana Health department officials said that they have come across patients who have recovered from severe COVID but returned with health complications. People who are 60 years or above, those having co-morbidities or long-term diseases regardless of age, are categorized under vulnerable group. The State’s Director of Medical Education (DME) Dr K Ramesh Reddy said that if people developed lung fibrosis, infection in lungs, problems related to heart, during COVID-19, the patients returned with health complications related to lungs after a few weeks or months from recovery. Lung fibrosis is a condition in which lung tissue is damaged, scarred, which makes it difficult to breathe. Dr Ramesh said that if a person develops the complication, they might suffer for lifetime. “It would be difficult for them to do their regular work,” the DME said to stress the importance of avoiding COVID-19 so that people do not suffer from adverse affects even after recovery. He and other Health officials earlier stressed the importance of early identification and early treatment to avoid progression of the infectious disease into severe condition. Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said that super speciality services for post-COVID complications were offered at Gandhi Hospital. Administrations at other teaching hospitals or District Hospitals were directed to refer such patients to tertiary care centres such as Gandhi Hospital. 83-year-old operated upon An 83-year-old man who recovered from COVID, and developed post-COVID complications, was operated upon by a team of cardiologists at Apollo Hospitals. The doctors performed cardiac procedure- ‘Trans Aortic Valve Replacement’ on the patient from West Godavari, Andhra Pradesh. The patient suffered from hypertension, Mild Coronary Artery Disease, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), severe Degenerative Aortic Valve Disease, severe Aortic Stenosis and Mild Aortic Regurgitation. The surgery was performed on November 29, and the patient was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/people-cautioned-against-post-covid-risks/article33245338.ece
04 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jammikunta makes it to top 10 best police stations||Jammikunta police station in remote Karimnagar district has made it to the top 10 best performing police stations in the country this year in a survey conducted by the Ministry of Home Affairs. This is the third police station in Telangana and second in Karimnagar district, which has figured among the top 10 since 2017. Last year, Choppadandi was ranked eight in the country, while in 2017, Punjagutta police station in Hyderabad Commissionerate was the second best. A modern and people-friendly appearance with conveniences like play area, expansive lawns, and flowering and fruit-bearing trees was what earned the police station the recognition. ‘For You, With You Always’ is embossed on the façade of the police station building, which was modernised in August 2017. It is also a child-friendly and disabled-friendly police station. Speaking to The Hindu , Karimnagar Commissioner of Police V.B. Kamalasan Reddy said that bagging the award for the second consecutive year would definitely boost the morale of the police personnel. “We achieved it only because of the commitment, consistent hard work of staff and of course support from the general public,” he said. He also said that better service delivery, prevention and detection of crime, safety of women and weaker sections, and tracing the missing persons were some of the attributes, which rewarded the police station. A team from MHA visited the PS under ‘challenging circumstances’ due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and conducted the survey. “Apart from service delivery and working pattern of men, the survey team also focused on the physical fitness of police personnel, people-friendly atmosphere and maintenance of the premises,” the Commissioner said, adding that the team took feedback from the petitioners and citizens. He said that more than 300 villages and hamlets falling under the Jammikunta police station limits are under electronic surveillance and all CCTV cameras in the town integrated to the police station. “Everyday at 7 a.m., the national anthem is played at the junction in the town drawing the attention of residents and passers-by,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jammikunta-makes-it-to-top-10-best-police-stations/article33245358.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Students told to have better understanding of farming||Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) V. Praveen Rao has asked students to improve their understanding and awareness of agriculture and rural areas stating that agriculture is backbone of the country’s economy and food security of our huge population. He was speaking to students on the National Agricultural Education Day, celebrated on December 3 every year coinciding with the birth anniversary of the first President of the country Babu Rajendra Prasad, on the university campus here on Thursday. He stated that there is a need to improve the income of farmers, as also improving the nutritional security of people by adopting sustaining practices of farming. He also presented certificates to 10 winners in art, essay-writing and poster-making competitions. A total of about 150 students from 10 schools participated in the event. President of Palle Srujana, a voluntary organisation working for aiding and promoting creativity at grass-roots level, Brig. (retd) P. Ganesham suggested students to find solutions to problems out of their own experience to be successful and responsible citizens. Dean of student affairs J. Satyanarayana, Dean of Agriculture Seema, Associate Dean K. Suhasini, executive council members A. Manohar Rao, Farzana Jaben, Laxminarayana and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/students-told-to-have-better-understanding-of-farming/article33245366.ece
04 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Commemorative volume on Prof. Ramakistayya released||The commemorative volume on the life of Vedulla Ramakistayya, former Chairman, APPSC and former Vice-Chancellor, Osmania University, was recently released by Rajiv Sharma, Chief Advisor to Government of Telangana. Member of Parliament K. Keshava Rao, B. Vinod Kumar, Vice Chairman, Telangana State Planning Board, were among the dignitaries who attended the programme. The volume depicts the enormous contributions made by Prof. Ramakistayya to academics, social and intellectual arenas, during his long and extensive tenures as professor and administrator. Dr. Rajiv Sharma recalled his association with Prof. Ramakistayya and said he was an embodiment of discipline, vision and conviction on certain key issues of academics. Incisive thinker Former special chief secretary of Andhra Pradesh M. Gopalakrishna said he was a progressive man and an incisive thinker and said he was the one who put the OU MBA course on the world map. Recalling his association, K. Keshava Rao said the late professor took tough decisions to protect the academic culture and reputation. Mr. Vinod Kumar said Prof. Ramakistayya was one of the visionaries who aspired for progressive Telangana and institutions and projects coming up in future will be named after such intellectuals. Others who attended included M.N. Rao, former Chief Justice of Himachal Pradesh High Court; Janardhan Reddy, Principal Secretary, Agriculture; T. Papi Reddy, Chairman, TSCHE; J.D. Lakshmi Narayana, former Joint Director of CBI; and Prof. V. Venkata Ramana, Vice-Chairman, TSCHE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/commemorative-volume-on-prof-ramakistayya-released/article33245367.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pandemic impacted disabled more||Persons with disabilities and pre-existing medical problems suffered significantly more during COVID-19 lockdown with pyscho-social problems of "isolation, abandonment, and violence" and 81.6% reported experiencing “moderate to high levels of stress”. This is according to a study conducted to understand the pandemic impact on the disabled by Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad (IIPH), a constituent unit of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), in collaboration with CBM India and Humanity & Inclusion. The pandemic had impacted the health/ mental health and rehabilitation, education, livelihood and social participation of the disabled with two out of every five people or 42.5%, reporting access to routine medical care was difficult including those with a pre-existing medical condition (12.7%). About 58% of them stated facing difficulty. While 34.5% sought information on mental health issues, only 25.9% had access to such services. Just 20% were able to get regular counselling or therapy and 11.4% faced problems getting regular psychiatric medicines. About 58.2% were unhappy because therapy sessions for their child had ceased and 84.2% stated their daily lives had been impacted. "Lack of mobility in accessing health and rehabilitation led to distress and the disabled suffered more than the rest. We need to be adequately prepared so as not to compromise on health needs of the disabled as the country has committed itself to the goal of 'Universal Health Care' as part of social development goals,” said lead author and IIPH - H director G.V.S. Murthy. CBM India's managing trustee Sara Varughese said: “Lockdown had a negative psychological impact on the differently-abled as they were totally left out. Economic difficulties were the common reason with many unable to access basic necessities. "The disabled have unique needs and we must recognize the differences and support them to take appropriate steps," said acting regional director of ‘Humanity & Inclusion’ Raju Palanchoke. Other study highlights are: 35% reported need for OP services and 55% had difficulty in getting it, 16.6% needed emergency medical care yet 45% among them had difficulty, 35.7% needed medicines and 46% faced problems Special assistance and disabled-friendly COVID-19 protocols, providing access to masks, disinfectants, etc were among the recommendations made. Across 14 states Study had a sample size of 403, of which 60% were male and 40% female with respondents consisting of 51.6% physical impairment, 16.1% with visual impairment, 19% with intellectual impairment, and 9.2% with speech and hearing impairment. It was conducted across 14 states. including Telangana, Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-impacted-disabled-more/article33245341.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BCs seek law on quota in legislatures||National Backward Classes Welfare Association has demanded that the Centre bring in a legislation reserving 50% seats to backward classes communities in the law-making bodies. A meeting of the association chaired by its president R. Krishnaiah and vice-president G. Krishna here on Thursday has decided to stage dharnas on December 9 across Telangana with a demand for introduction of a Bill for 50% quota to BC communities in the law-making bodies in the coming session of Parliament. Stating that BC communities comprise 56% of the population in the country, Mr. Krishnaiah said on Thursday that 15 political parties had already agreed to support any move to make a legislation for providing 50% reservation to BC communities in the law-making bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bcs-seek-law-on-quota-in-legislatures/article33245348.ece
04 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police prohibit victory rallies after GHMC poll results||Victory rallies by political parties after declaration of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election results, which would be declared on Friday, are prohibited by the police to effectively prevent any kind of gathering on the streets. The victory rallies are prohibited for 48 hours after the counting day. The police had already provided three-tier security of CRPF, City Armed Reserve Police and and City Civil police, at all strong rooms, where ballot boxes are stored. Police said that more than 12,000 personnel will be deployed in all counting centres across three Commissionerates. The counting centres are located in 15 places in Hyderabad, 10 in Cyberabad and six in Rachakonda Commissionerate. Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that more than 7,000 police personnel will be deployed at 15 counting centres in their area. He said that a three-tier security with personnel of Telangana State Special Police guarding the inner circle, City Armed Reserve Police at middle level and City Civil Police on the outer circle will be provided at the counting centres on Friday. An Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) rank officer will monitor the situation at each centre, while at some sensitive places, they have deployed Additional DCP rank officers. “Each counting centre will have at least 200 personnel from TSSP and Law and Order, apart from officials of Special Branch, Task Force and Traffic,” Mr. Kumar said. He said that people are not allowed to gather at least 200 metres from the strong rooms. Earlier in the day, the Commissioner said that a case has been registered against some miscreants who were circulating a ‘fake news’ that 92 police officers were suspended in one day. “This is wrong news. Please do not believe it. We are taking legal action against those spreading this fake news for vested interest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-prohibit-victory-rallies/article33245344.ece
04 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Road safety committee meeting held||A District Road Safety Committee meeting was convened with officials of allied departments here on Thursday. Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar presided over the meeting held in compliance to the guidelines of the Supreme Court to discuss and take up remedial measures for the reduction of road accidents in the city. The committee discussed on the improvement of junctions, identification of black spots, break down of RTC buses on the roads causing traffic congestion during peak hours, identification of water logging places, requirements of rumble strips, erecting of signages, construction of bus bays and bus shelters with an aim to improve safety of commuters and reduction of road accidents. Mr. Kumar said that the committee members would meet every three months and the issues shall be rectified by the concerned departments to avoid road accidents. He further reiterated the importance of providing infrastructure by concerned departments and requested them to redress every issue to save precious lives and make Hyderabad a safe city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-safety-panel-meets/article33245374.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR-CCMB scientist gets Infosys award||CSIR- Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s Dr. Rajan Sankaranarayanan, a structural biologist studying structures of proteins in cells and how accuracy is maintained by cellular machinery while building proteins across evolution, has won the prestigious Infosys Prize 2020 for the life sciences category announced on Wednesday night. Director Dr. Rakesh Mishra said, “Dr. Sankaranarayanan is an extremely rigorous scientist, and is highly celebrated among his peers in India as well as internationally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-ccmb-scientist-gets-infosys-award/article33245339.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS calls for meeting of stakeholders on road safety||The State government has decided to conduct a meeting of the stakeholders to discuss issues relating to road safety and further strengthening the safety measures. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said that the meeting was aimed at discussing about the safety measures for minimizing the road accidents in the State. He was participating in a virtual meeting on road safety convened by the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety on Thursday to review the interventions taken up by the government. The Committee, according to an official release, expressed satisfaction over the presentation made by the State government on the measures initiated to minimize road accidents. The committee directed the authorities concerned to further strengthen the measures to bring down accidents and reduce fatalities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-calls-for-meeting-of-stakeholders-on-road-safety/article33245349.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CISF to assist passengers at RGIA||Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in collaboration with GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. (GHIAL) launched a unique passenger focusing service - “Swarnim Sewa”  at Hyderabad International Airport on Thursday. A team of CISF Swarnim Sewa personnel has been formed and deployed to pro-actively help passengers in need round the clock especially those with reduced mobility, senior citizens or aged travelling alone, pregnant women, women with infants, first time travellers and children travelling alone and passengers in distress. This will be done in departure gates, baggage check-in and security points etc. The service was launched by founder of AMF Foundation Aditya Mehta and Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cisf-to-assist-passengers-at-rgia/article33245340.ece
04 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Cong. protest programme on December 7||Deekshas involving unemployed youth will be held in all the 50 divisions of Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) under the aegis of the District Congress Committee on December 7 to press for implementation of the ruling TRS’s “poll promises” of providing jobs and unemployment allowance to the unemployed youth during the previous elections. Announcing this at the DCC office here on Thursday, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said similar deekshas will be held later this month to highlight the woes of shelterless poor people deprived of the two bedroom (2BHK) houses and those anxiously waiting for Aasara pensions. “The TRS has no right to seek votes for the forthcoming elections to the KMC without fulfilling its promises made to poor people and unemployed youth in the previous elections,” he said. The persons at the helm are trying to project installation of water fountains and central lighting as “development” without improving civic amenities in the core areas of the town to garner votes at the ensuing hustings, he charged, saying “the enlightened denizens of the town will teach the ruling party a fitting lesson in the forthcoming KMC polls.” Referring to Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar's allegation that a frenzied group of BJP activists tried to kill him in Hyderabad on Tuesday, the CLP leader said: The Minister's statement exposes the prevailing law and order situation in the State capital. What will happen to a common man if a car in the convoy of the Minister, escorted by security personnel, is attacked on the main road in the State capital on the polling day?” he wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-protest-programme-on-december-7/article33245488.ece
04 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Marketyard official ‘suspended’||The special grade secretary of Madhira Agriculture Market Committee (AMC) K Chowdari Reddy has been placed under suspension on charges of violation of protocol norms and dereliction of duty during the inaugural ceremony of the CCI procurement centre at the AMC in Madhira town last month. The action comes following a complaint by Madhira MLA Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka against the special grade secretary alleging that the latter breached protocol norms by concluding the inaugural ceremony even before his arrival on November 9 in Madhira, sources said. Based on the MLA's complaint, the authorities concerned issued a show-cause notice to Mr Reddy and subsequently placed him under suspension, pending a detailed inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/marketyard-official-suspended/article33245489.ece
04 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||The decades-old practice of communal amity in Nalgonda town, the annual Hazrath Syed Lateefulla Shah Khadri Urs, began on Thursday. The three-day festival started with the town’s municipal chairman M. Saidi Reddy, police, district officials and leaders carrying trays of sandalwood paste from Madina masjid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33245356.ece
04 December 2020||Palem (NALGONDA),TELANGANA||Narsimhaiah cremated with full State honours||Nomula Narsimhaiah, TRS legislator from Nagarjunasagar in Nalgonda, was cremated with full State honours at his birthplace here on Thursday. Nomula Bhagat Kumar, his son and the chief mourner, lit the pyre arranged on their agriculture land amid the presence of family, colleagues, and thousands of villagers and supporters. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who arrived here in a helicopter, led the district and State leaders, to mourn Mr. Narsimhaiah’s death and condoled the bereaved family members. The 64-year-old leader passed away due to illness on Tuesday morning. His mortal remains were preserved at Kamineni Hospitals, Narketpally, till some of his family members living abroad arrived here on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, the funeral procession of Mr. Narsimhaiah began at around 9 a.m. at Nakrekal, the headquarters from where he served as the CPI (M) Mandal Parishad president for 12 years and as a two-time legislator till 2009. The funeral van passed through the single-track Musi Road crossing Nomula and Palem villages, with the family and local leaders on foot, till the agricultural land on the outskirts. After a two-and-half-hour procession, joined by thousands of mourners, Mr. Narsimhaiah’s bier was carried for the rituals. At around 11.40 a.m., Mr. KCR along with ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Vemula Prashanth Reddy arrived at the site, and paid their final tributes. The CM condoled his wife Somalakshmi, daughters Jhansi and Aruna Jyothi and son Bhagat Kumar. The police band then played ‘The Last Post’, fired the three-volley rifle salute and observed two minutes’ silence. Around 12.30 p.m., amid shouts of ‘Narsimhaiah Amar rahe, Johar Narsimhaiah’, the mortal remains were consigned to flames.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narsimhaiah-cremated-with-full-state-honours/article33245355.ece
04 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Winners Foundation, a social service arm of BDL employees, has been donating groceries worth Rs. 2,500 to 150 families suffering from fluoride problem. According to Foundation president A. Raghu, the families were identified at Marriguda, Nampally, and Munugodu in Nalgonda district, and were handed over groceries worth Rs. 4 lakh. New Jersey-based NRI’s NGO ‘Hope 4 Spandana’ has provided the financial help to procure groceries. So far, 70 families in 14 villages benefited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33245360.ece
04 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Vasudha Foundation of Hyderabad in coordination with Sahara NGO has extended an assistance of Rs. 10,000 to the families who lost one of their members to COVID. According to District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) Dr. Rathod, as many as 19 poor families were identified and help was extended to them at the Collectorate on Thursday. Dr. Shashank, Sahara representative Shankar and representatives of Vasudha Foundation were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33245361.ece
04 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Government advisor Kondal Rao said on Thursday that Rs. 1.5 crore was sanctioned for the Kitchhanapally Venkateswara Swamy temple. Mr. Kondal Rao along with Zilla Parishad chairperson P. Manjusree, MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran, and Collector M. Hanumantha Rao visited the temple and offered special prayers. While directing officials to commence the works in ‘Kartika masam’, he said that the money sanctioned by the government may not be sufficient and they should get funds from donors. Mr. Hanumantha Rao said that the temple was about 800 years old and works on it would commence before December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33245363.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||No night curfew in Capital as of now, govt. informs High Court||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the High Court that it was not going to impose night curfew in the Capital to curb the spread of COVID-19 as of now. The Delhi government, however, said it has issued order on November 28 to maintain the status-quo with respect to permitted or restricted activities in the Capital, including celebrating festivals, marriages, inter-State movement of buses, etc. till December 31. The government’s submission came in response to a query posed by a Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad last week, whether it would impose night curfew, as done in some other States. 50% cap on attendance The government also submitted that there is a 50% cap on the attendance of employees (below Grade-I) of non-essential services, departments of Delhi government, Corporations, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) and local bodies here. The private establishments have also been advised to consider staggered office timings and also reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time, it added. Fines collected The court, however, said: “It is unclear from the status report as to how much impact would this order actually have on a real-time basis as it does not cover Central government employees and is only recommendatory in nature qua private establishments.” The Delhi government has so far collected fines to the tune of Rs. 17.93 crore against 2,37,907 challans issued in respect of COVID-19 violations. The Delhi police, too, have collected Rs. 27.68 crore fine against 5,47,394 challans. While the fines collected from the challans are deposited in the government treasury, the same money is not directly used for incurring any specific expenditure, including Covid-19 infection. As per the prevailing procedures, all expenditure in any department has to be incurred from the budget allocations approved through legislative procedures. In its status report, the government said Delhi has 593 crematoriums, of which 415 are dedicated to COVID-19 deaths. “A total of 1,265 patients who succumbed to COVID-19 have been cremated/buried in October and 2,787 patients who have succumbed to the disease have been cremated/buried in November,” the report said. While the death rate is currently just below 100, the court said, “It needs to climb down further.” The Delhi government said between November 25 and December 1, 5,28,670 tests have been conducted out of which 2,48,700 have been done by adopting the RAT method and 2,46,635 through RT-PCR and other methods. It said the positivity rate is above 5%. “To keep an unabated check on the spread of COVID-19 infection, the level of testing cannot be reduced. Efforts must be made to trace the contacts of persons who have tested positive and ensure that persons who are symptomatic and in home quarantine, adhere to the guidelines prescribed by the ICMR,” the High Court said. It directed the Delhi government to state the measures that are being taken to ensure proper follow-up on contact tracing and to ensure that persons who are home quarantined, do not violate the isolation regime.  To keep an unabated check on the spread of COVID-19 infection, the level of testing cannot be reduced. Efforts must be made to trace the contacts of persons who have tested positive hIGH COURT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-night-curfew-in-capital-as-of-now-govt-informs-high-court/article33245067.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Recovery rate in city at 92%, government working overtime’||The Delhi government informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that the COVID-19 recovery rate in the Capital is a whopping 92%. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate K.V. Viswanathan, for Delhi, said only 5% positivity was detected from 78,090 COVID-19 tests done as of December 2. When the court asked whether there were any means to cross-check the veracity of these statistics, Mr. Viswanathan said he would place on record the audit mechanism by which these figures were reached. He said these figures were compiled from accredited centres, laboratories and authorities. “Cases are going down. The situation is being monitored at the highest level. We don’t want to be adversarial. Why did the Centre have to blame us? The Delhi government is working overtime,” Mr. Viswanathan said. He added that the Lieutenant-Governor is in charge of COVID-19 management. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta countered why the Delhi government has to think that the Centre was blaming them. “What is the need to think like that? There is no blame,” Mr. Mehta asked. Mr. Viswanathan said the Delhi government understands the need to treat the pandemic as a national calamity. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had recently filed an affidavit holding the Delhi government responsible for the “massive increase” in COVID-19 infection and the resultant strain on medical infrastructure in the National Capital. On November 30, the Delhi government responded in an affidavit that its “consistent efforts” had seen a “declining trend” in the spread of COVID-19 infections. Rejecting the Centre’s claim that the Delhi government was ill-prepared for the spike in cases due to the festival season, the affidavit had said the total number of COVID ICU beds available in Delhi is 5010 presently, with an expected increase of another 1522 ICU beds. Mr. Viswanathan referred to how Chief Minister Kejriwal had written to the Union Home Minister to increase the number of ICU beds by 1,214 in Central government hospitals like AIIMS, Safdarjung, LHMC, RML, etc. It said the Delhi government, notwithstanding this request, had gone ahead to approve the procurement of 1,200 of bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP), a kind of ventilator, from CSIR. It said 300 of these machines would be arriving next week, with an equal number of them coming every week. “In a short while, we will have 6,200 beds, including the BiPAP ones. If the Centre contributes, we will have more than 7000,” Mr. Viswanathan submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/recovery-rate-in-city-at-92-government-working-overtime/article33245074.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports over 3K cases, 82 deaths||The city witnessed 3,734 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,82,058, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Thursday. Also, 82 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,424. Of the total cases, 5,43,514 people have recovered and there are 29,120 active cases. A total of 75,230 tests were done in the past 24 hours, as per the bulletin. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases on Thursday was 4.96%, which is less than 11.65% that was the average daily positivity rate in November. The overall positivity rate till now was 8.95%, the bulletin stated. Out of the total 18,719 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 62.6% were vacant. About 70.5% of ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment were occupied by Thursday night and 58.1% of the ICU beds without ventilators were full. In November, there were days when more than 50% of beds were occupied and about 90% of ICU beds with ventilators were full. There were 5,759 containment zones in the city as on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-over-3k-cases-82-deaths/article33245072.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. university launches PG course on fire and safety||Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University on Thursday launched a PG diploma in Fire & Safety Audit in collaboration with National Fire Service College, Nagpur to train firefighters in India. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said: “It’s a first of its kind course launched by any university in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-university-launches-pg-course-on-fire-and-safety/article33245068.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. protests in all constituencies against govt. over handling virus situation||The Delhi Congress on Thursday organised protests in all 70 Assembly constituencies against the manner in which the government has been handling the COVID-19 situation here. The party called for the resignation of Health Minister Satyendar Jain for failing to stop the increasing death rate over the past few months. Delhi Congress chief said: “The dangerous spike in cases and deaths due to COVID-19 are being exposed on a daily.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-protests-in-all-constituencies-against-govt-over-handling-virus-situation/article33245069.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia hands over tables to govt. students for online classes||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said COVID-19 vaccine will be available soon across the world and to minimise the loss faced by students, the government is consistently working on solutions. Mr. Sisodia was speaking at an event to distribute tablets to Class XI students of the government schools. The tablets were donated by Tata Power-DDL, BSES Rajdhani Power & BSES Yamuna Power. On Thursday, the Minister distributed tablets to 50 students personally. Overall, 1,902 Class XI students will be receiving the tablets in their respective schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sisodia-hands-over-tables-to-govt-students-for-online-classes/article33245070.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP’s plan on letting SDMC set up shops inside parks will lead to corruption’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday attacked the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) over the latter’s plan to set up shops selling fruits and milk in parks, saying the BJP was doing this to encourage corruption. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said corruption of the BJP in the municipal corporations is well known to the citizens of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-plan-on-letting-sdmc-set-up-shops-inside-parks-will-lead-to-corruption/article33245071.ece
04 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Job scam: Odisha MLA arrested||The Crime Branch of the Odisha police on Thursday arrested Pradip Panigrahi, Gopalpur MLA, on charges of collecting money from unemployed youths by making false promise to provide jobs. “Evidence has come to the light that Mr. Panigrahi collected money on behalf of one Akash Kumar Pathak, falsely promising jobs in Tata Company to people,” the Crime Branch said, issuing a statement here. It said, “this case relates to impersonation, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and other cyber offences by Pathak, who posed himself as Managing Director of Tata Motors passenger car division.”  ‘Sufficient evidence’ He has been booked under Section 419, 420, 467, 468, 469, 471, 120-B of the IPC. The Crime Branch claimed that there was sufficient prima facie evidence against him in this case. Mr. Panigrahi, once a close associate of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, recently fell out of favour with BJD party leadership. Akash Pathak is son of IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak, former Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, who has been arrested by Vigilance department on charges of amassing properties disproportionate to his known source of income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/job-scam-odisha-mla-arrested/article33245085.ece
04 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||NHRC seeks report on drinking water from Nuapada Collector||The National Human Rights Commission has directed the District Collector of Odisha’s Nuapada district to submit a comprehensive report on providing safe drinking water to people affected by fluorosis. The NHRC warned the officer of personal appearance if the requisite information was not submitted within next four weeks. Radhakant Tripathy, a human rights lawyer, had moved the commission raising issues caused by consumption of fluoride contaminated water in the district. Mr. Tripathy had argued that drinking of fluoride-laced water not only causes health problems, but also affects socio-economic life of people. Nuapada is one of the worst fluorosis affected districts in the State. As many as 905 habitations of the district have been identified to have groundwater contaminated by fluoride. Upon prolonged consumption of the water, adults suffer skeletal fluorosis that deforms bones. Children have mottled teeth. The disease is incurable once it aggravates. Fluorosis affected people cannot do physical labour for long. Thousands of people in Nuapada suffer from fluorosis. The NHRC also requested the Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research and the Director General, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research to submit a report on how to deal with fluoride contamination within 15 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nhrc-seeks-report-on-drinking-water-from-nuapada-collector/article33245080.ece
04 December 2020||jaipur,||Farmers stage ‘chakka jam’ in Rajasthan against farm laws||The farmers opposing the Centre’s agriculture sector laws, accompanied by the members of the Left-leaning organisations, staged a ‘chakka jam’ (stop wheels) agitation in several cities across Rajasthan on Thursday. The protesters blocked roads, held demonstrations and burnt effigies of BJP leaders. A group of farmers from the State joined the protest at Singhu along the Delhi-Haryana border, while a large number of agriculturists were mobilised by Kisan Mahapanchayat in Alwar district to stage a demonstration at the Rajasthan-Haryana border. They extended their support to farmer leaders holding talks with the Central Ministers in New Delhi. Representatives of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), labour unions, CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML), Rajasthan Nagrik Manch and Samagra Seva Sangh blocked the National Highway-8 near Jaipur for two hours. Some of the activists, who were stopping the vehicles coming from Delhi, clashed with the police. The traffic was diverted to other routes. AIKSCC State coordinator Sanjay Madhav said the participants in the demonstration, held near Surajpole Mandi on the highway, expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. Leaders addressing the protesters said the BJP government at the Centre was not only working against the interests of farmers and labourers, but also against the public at large. CPI(M) leader Ravindra Shukla said the Centre should withdraw the farm laws without delay. “Such a large number of farmers are raising their voices against these legislations, but the government is not willing to fulfil their demands,” he said. The Congress Seva Dal members organised a ‘sadbuddhi yagna’ (good sense offering) at several district headquarters.  Tractor rally Hundreds of farmers from 27 tehsils of four districts in Kota division took part in a rally and marched through the city’s main roads with their tractor-trollies, raising slogans and holding banners and placards in their hands. The farmers in Sriganganagar district marched to the Punjab border to show their solidarity with the farmers in the neighbouring State. Demonstrations were also held in Bikaner, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Udaipur, Hanumangarh and Barmer districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-stage-chakka-jam-in-rajasthan-against-farm-laws/article33245084.ece
04 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Customised packages likely in aviation policy||Customised packages are likely to be offered in the new civil aviation policy of Rajasthan for creating a favourable environment for expansion and strengthening of air services. The packages will include unhindered power and water supply and connectivity with the major roads and highways. Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya said here on Thursday that the investors could be encouraged to come up with the proposals for establishment of new airports and airstrips by the civil aviation industry’s inclusion in the Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme-2019.  Final draft The Planning Department, which will evaluate the policy after its final draft is prepared, will also compare it with the policies of other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/customised-packages-likely-in-aviation-policy/article33245082.ece
04 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot flays Centre over fuel price hike||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP government at the Centre, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursdays said the increase in the prices of diesel, petrol and LPG cylinders amounted to “betrayal with the people”. He pointed out that crude oil rates had reduced to less than $50 per barrel in the international market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-flays-centre-over-fuel-price-hike/article33245086.ece
04 December 2020||Mumbai,||Plea in HC seeks suspension of Kangana’s Twitter account||A fresh petition has been filed at the Bombay High Court seeking a direction to permanently suspend the Twitter account of actor Kangana Ranaut, just as her sister Rangoli Chandel’s account was deactivated this year, to stop the spread of hatred and disharmony. The criminal petition, filed by advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, said on April 15, Ms. Chandel tweeted: “A Jamati died of Corona when police and doctors went to check their families they were attacked and killed, secular media, make these mullas + secular media stand in a line and shoot them dead.. f**k the history they call us nazis who cares, life is more important than fake image.” The plea added, “Due to immense outrage, the social media giant Twitter after receiving unaccountable and numerous complaints and reports against Ms. Chandel took strict action and suspended her verified account in a day.” “On April 18, Ms. Ranaut supported her sister and put out a short video on various social media platforms, including the Instagram account of Ms. Chandel, and called a sect of Muslims (Jamati) terrorists and further made defamatory and derogatory statements against the Muslim community. She further made unacceptable statements about Jamati Muslims in the video, wherein she took names of several ministers and said in Hindi that you can’t call a terrorist a terrorist..?,” the petition stated. The plea has attached copies of several tweets put out by Ms. Ranaut and urged the court to issue appropriate orders directing Twitter Inc. to permanently suspend/deactivate Ms. Ranaut’s Twitter account in order to stop the spread of hatred and disharmony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-in-hc-seeks-suspension-of-kanganas-twitter-account/article33245002.ece
04 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai to host 2-day Assembly winter session||The winter session of the Maharashtra Assembly will be held in Mumbai, instead of the traditional venue, Nagpur, on December 14 and 15. The session, which has been curtailed to two days owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, will see the tabling of supplementary demands. State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said the Opposition has demanded that the session be extended to two weeks. “The threat posed by the novel coronavirus persists even today. The Opposition did ask to extend the session to two weeks. But considering the present situation, it was decided to limit it to just two days,” Mr. Parab said. Devendra Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, said the government is running away from debate. “Farmers in Maharashtra are facing major problems, and many communities are protesting. The government has failed on the issue of ensuring Maratha reservation. There are a number of issues which need to be discussed. But the State government is curtailing the session to just two days,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Cotton and soybean crops in Vidarbha, Marathwada and north Maharashtra regions got affected on a large scale due to pest attacks, he added. “The unresolved issues related to the Maratha community, anxiety among the OBCs over possible encroachment on their reservation by other communities, and women feeling unsafe are other key issues. We wanted to have a discussion on these points in the session,” Mr. Fadnavis said. At a time when the State government is opening up everything, there is no reason to place restrictions only on the Assembly session, he said. “We have raised the demand that the next budget session be held in Nagpur since Mumbai is hosting the winter session,” he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-to-host-2-day-assembly-winter-session/article33244997.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC grants anticipatory bail to ex-Punjab DGP||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab Director General of Police SumedhSingh Saini in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said Mr. Saini should commit a bail bond of Rs. 1 lakh along with two sureties and also surrender his passport. The court in September gave him protection from arrest in the case. It had earlier questioned the Punjab government on its “hurry” to arrest Mr. Saini in a case dating back to 1991. In 1991, Multani was picked up after an attack on Mr. Saini and three police officers. The three died and Mr. Saini was grievously injured. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped custody and disappeared. However, a murder charge was recently added to the case after two of the accused policemen in the case turned approvers. An FIR was registered on the basis of a compliant by Multani’s family. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had earlier refused his plea for anticipatory bail. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Mr. Saini, contended that his client was a decorated officer and suffered bullet injuries. He argued that the case was politically motivated.  ‘Proclaimed offender’ Mr. Rohatgi said it had been 29 years since Multani escaped custody. He said Mr. Saini was an SSP at the time of the attack. Multani, on the other hand, was a proclaimed offender. Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, for the Punjab government, objected to the plea for bail. He said Mr. Saini was still an influential person with power to intimidate witnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-ex-punjab-dgp/article33245081.ece
04 December 2020||Pune,||BJP wins Dhule-Nandurbar||While the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) registered a clear victory in the Dhule-Nandurbar Legislative Council byelection, the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi had the upper hand in four of the five teachers and graduates’ constituencies as the counting of votes began on Thursday. The BJP’s candidate for Dhule-Nandurbar, Amrish Patel, won a thumping victory, snaring 332 of a total 434 votes cast. His nearest rival, the Congress’s Abhijeet Patil, could secure only 98 votes. The Dhule-Nadurbar by-poll was necessitated after Mr. Patel, a sitting MLC, quit the Congress to join the BJP. “Mr. Patel’s resounding win is a big political setback for the MVA and underlines the tensions between the NCP and the Congress… We [the BJP] are certain to sweep the teachers and graduates’ constituencies as well,” said senior BJP leader and former minister Girish Mahajan. While the counting for the five graduates and teachers’ constituency seats, of which three are graduates and the remaining are teachers’ constituencies — is underway, the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA has secured a clear lead in four of these seats. The MVA’s Jayant Asgaonkar (Congress) has secured a comfortable lead of 4,000 votes over his BJP rival in the Pune teachers’ constituency. Likewise, in the hotly contested Pune graduates’ constituency, the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) candidate, sugar baron Arun Lad, has secured a huge lead of 10,000 votes over his nearest rival, the BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh. The Sangli-based Mr. Lad, who is the president of the Kranti Co-operative Sugar Factory, was responsible for the NCP’s defeat in the last Pune graduates’ constituency election, when he raised the banner of rebellion. The seat, traditionally an NCP bastion, became a ‘prestige fight’ with senior NCP leader Jayant Patil, who is the current Water Resources Minister, and BJP State president Chandrakant Patil, who till recently held the Pune graduates’ seat, both campaigning vigorously for their respective candidates. In the Nagpur graduates’ constituency seat, the MVA’s Abhijit Vanjari secured a lead of nearly 5,000 votes over his BJP rival. In the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency, the NCP’s Satish Chavan has secured a massive lead of over 17,000 votes against his BJP adversary, Satish Boralkar, and appears to be coasting to victory. In the Amravati teachers’ constituency, an Independent, Kiran Sarnaik, has secured a slender lead of less than 1,000 votes over the MVA’s Shrikant Deshpande.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-wins-dhule-nandurbar/article33245000.ece
04 December 2020||Pune,||Recoveries surge in Maharashtra||COVID-19 recoveries outpaced fresh cases by a healthy margin on Thursday, with as many as 8,066 more patients being discharged across Maharashtra as opposed to 5,182 new cases. The total case tally now stands at 18,37,358, with the number of active cases dropping to 85,535. The cumulative recoveries have crossed the 17 lakh mark to reach 17,03,274, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 92.7%. As many as 115 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 47,472. “Of a total of 1,10,59,305 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,37,358 (case positivity rate of 16.61%) have returned positive, with nearly 70,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.58%. 878 cases in Mumbai Pune district reported more than 750 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,55,698, while 13 deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,507. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has dipped slightly to 11,443, while its recovery rate incrementally rose to 94.26%. Mumbai city reported 878 new cases to take its total case load to 2,83,696, of which 14,076 are active. With 18 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 10,931. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 435 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,15,165, of which 4,295 are currently active. Nine deaths took the total death toll to 3,012. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported five deaths. As many as 163 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 52,892, of which 2,050 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 41 cases and a single death as the district’s reported cases reached 48,780, of which just 455 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,715. Kolhapur reported 19 cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 48,595. Its active case tally has reduced drastically to just 99. The total death toll has reached 1,647. 350 cases in Nashik In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 350 cases and six deaths as its total case tally reached 106,274, of which 2,221 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,736. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported a little over 40 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 55,163, of which only 1,130 are active, while its toll stood at 1,416. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 5,48,137 people across the State are in home quarantine and 5,939 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/recoveries-surge-in-maharashtra/article33244998.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. tightens visa rules for CCP members||The Trump administration on Wednesday issued new rules to curtail travel to the U.S. by members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and their immediate families, a move certain to further exacerbate tensions between the two countries. The new policy, which took immediate effect, limits the maximum duration of travel visas for party members and their families to one month, according to a State Department spokesman. Previously, party members, like other Chinese citizens, could obtain visitor visas for the U.S. that were valid for 10 years. Travel visas for party members will also be limited to a single entry rather than multiple entries as was possible before, according to two people familiar with the changes. The new measures do not affect party members’ eligibility for other kinds of visas, such as immigration or employment. The State Department spokesman added that no current visas would be revoked as a result of the policy changes. The new visa rules add to the conflict, now years long, between the two countries on trade, technology and much else. Coming in the twilight of the Trump administration and aimed squarely at China’s ruling elite, the visa restrictions and the likely Chinese response will be yet another challenge to President-elect Joe Biden, who is inheriting a U.S.-China relationship that is in its worst state since the normalisation of diplomatic ties in 1979. ‘To protect the nation’ In principle, the new visa policy could affect the travel of roughly 270 million people, according to U.S. government estimates based on a Communist Party membership of 92 million. In practice, it might be difficult to determine who, apart from high-level officials, belongs to the party. The State Department spokesman called the move part of “ongoing policy, regulatory, and law-enforcement action across the U.S. government to protect our nation from the CCP’s malign influence.” A spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry, Hua Chunying, condemned the new rules during a news conference on Thursday. “We hope people in the United States will adopt a common rational view toward China and give up their hatred and abnormal mindset toward the Communist Party,” Ms. Hua said, according to Bloomberg News .NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-tightens-visa-rules-for-ccp-members/article33244712.ece
04 December 2020||Washington,||Donald Trump hints at 2024 presidential run||Still irate and bitter one month after his election defeat to Joe Biden, Donald Trump is openly musing about a second run at the U.S. presidency in 2024. Refusing to accept defeat, Mr. Trump’s lawyers and supporters continued on Wednesday to file lawsuits and even call for extraordinary intervention, such as martial law, to force a new vote. But at a White House Christmas party on Tuesday, the President suggested he might have lost this battle, but would not retire quietly as a one-term President. “It’s been an amazing four years. We are trying to do another four years. Otherwise, I’ll see you in four years,” he told guests. According to NBC News , Mr. Trump has discussed the possibility with his close aides of launching his 2024 campaign on January 20, the day Mr. Biden is to be inaugurated as president. In theory, nothing prevents another run. The U.S. Constitution restricts presidents to two four-year terms, but does not require that they be consecutive. But only one president did so: Grover Cleveland, in the late 19th century. All six contested States have now certified their tallies, and the national count gives Mr. Biden nearly seven million more votes than Mr. Trump, an insurmountable four percentage-point margin. On Tuesday, Attorney General Bill Barr declared that the Justice Department had found no significant evidence of fraud in the election. Mr. Biden, meanwhile, continued to prepare for taking office on January 20, telling The New York Times in an interview how he plans to revive the economy. “I want to make sure we’re going to fight like hell by investing in America first,” Mr. Biden said. ‘Rigged election’ Mr. Trump also released a 46-minute video, in which he again claimed that he was robbed of victory in a “rigged” election. He recited a litany of complaints about the election, saying the Democrats used the COVID-19 crisis to force widespread use of mailed ballots, which he said were fraudulently manipulated to support Mr. Biden. “This may be the most important speech I’ve ever made,” he said. “This election was rigged, everybody knows it ... It is statistically impossible that the person, me, who led the charge, lost,” Mr. Trump added. “This is not just about honoring the votes of 74 million Americans who voted for me ... It’s about ensuring that Americans can have faith in this election. And in all future elections.” According to media reports, Mr. Trump is preparing for his exit, holding discussions about issuing preemptive pardons for his three adult children — Don Jr, Eric and Ivanka — for Ivanka’s husband Jared Kushner, and his own personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani. Mr. Trump’s supporters continued to fight against the results. Mr. Giuliani appeared before Michigan's State legislature Wednesday to present his claims of irregularities. In Georgia, another lawyer tied to the Trump campaign, Sidney Powell, spoke to a rally of supporters claiming their votes were not counted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/donald-trump-hints-at-2024-presidential-run/article33244710.ece
04 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. Senate clears Bill on immigrant visas||The U.S. Senate has unanimously passed a Bill that eliminates the per-country numerical limitation for employment-based immigrant visas and raises it for family-based visas, a legislation that will hugely benefit hundreds of thousands of Indian professionals in America who have been waiting for years to get their green cards. The Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act comes as a big relief to Indian IT professionals who come to the U.S. on H-1B work visas. Their current waiting period for the Green Card or permanent residency is running into decades. Originally passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on July 10, 2019 by a bipartisan 365 to 65 votes, the legislation increases the per-country cap on family-based immigrant visas from 7% of the total number of such visas available that year to 15%. It was sponsored by Republican Senator Mike Lee from Utah in the Senate. The provision will facilitate removal of the massive backlog of Indian IT professionals in the US. Currently, there is a backlog of almost one million foreign nationals and accompanying family members residing in the U.S. who have been approved for, and are waiting to receive, employment-based Green Cards. The largest number of them are from India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-senate-clears-bill-on-immigrant-visas/article33245251.ece
04 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. to block import of ‘slave labour’ cotton from China||The United States will block imports of cotton that it says is harvested with “slave labour” in China's Xinjiang region, authorities have announced. Beijing has come under intense international criticism over its policies in the resource-rich territory, where rights groups say as many as one million Uighurs and other mostly Muslim minorities are being held in internment camps. The new rule allows Customs and Border Protection officials to detain shipments containing cotton originating from the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, a major paramilitary group already sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury. “The human rights abuses taking place at the hands of the Chinese Communist government will not be tolerated by President Trump and the American people,” said senior Department of Homeland Security (DHS) official Ken Cuccinelli on Wednesday. Beijing responded by accusing the United States of fabricating “fake news of so-called forced labour” and attempting to “oppress Xinjiang businesses.” “Their aim is to constrain and oppress relevant parties and enterprises in China and curb China's development,” said foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying on Thursday. She denied there was any forced labour in Xinjiang, saying workers in the region “choose occupations based on their own wishes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-block-import-of-slave-labour-cotton-from-china/article33244714.ece
04 December 2020||COLOMBO,||Cyclone Burevi hits northern Sri Lanka, 12,000 people affected||At least 12,000 residents of Sri Lanka’s Northern and Eastern provinces were severely affected as heavy rain lashed the region while cyclone Burevi made a landfall on Wednesday night. The maximum rainfall — 279.8 mm in the last 24 hours — was recorded in Kilinochchi district. Incessant rainfall continued on Thursday as the cyclone moved towards Mannar district located on the island’s northwest coast, before heading towards south India. Thousands living in Jaffna, Mullaitivu, Kilinochchi, Mannar, Vavuniya and the eastern Trincomalee district were badly affected, and nearly 200 homes were damaged, according to Pradeep Kodippili, spokesman of Sri Lanka’s Disaster Management Centre. Some tile-roofed homes of families, who were displaced during the civil war and returned in recent years, were badly damaged, with the roofs collapsing during the cyclone and strong winds, images shared on social media showed. In the Eastern Province too, authorities had evacuated several hundreds, fearing severe damage. “The situation is returning to normal, but we have urged residents in the area to remain vigilant and avoid venturing out to the seas,” Mr. Koippili said in a media statement. Asked if there was any fear of flooding, he told The Hindu : “There could be flash floods and inundation in some low-level areas. We are working swiftly to ensure relief reaches affected families at the earliest.” The local Sunday Times paper reported that at least four fishermen from the Northern Province were missing since Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cyclone-burevi-hits-northern-sri-lanka-12000-people-affected/article33244716.ece
04 December 2020||Bangladesh,||Bangladesh begins shifting Rohingya||Bangladesh began transferring hundreds of Rohingya refugees on Thursday to a low-lying island in an area prone to cyclones and floods, with rights groups alleging that people were being coerced into leaving. Almost a million Rohingya — most of whom fled a military offensive in neighbouring Myanmar in 2017 — live in a vast network of squalid camps in south-eastern Bangladesh. With many refusing to return, and with violent drug gangs and extremists active on the sites, the Bangladeshi government has grown increasingly impatient over clearing out the camps. On Thursday, over 20 buses carrying almost a thousand peopleleft the camps in the Cox’s Bazar region, headed for the port city of Chittagong, said Anwar Hossain, regional police chief. “There were 423 people in the first 10 buses and 499 in the second 10 buses,” he said. Police said more buses would leave later on Thursday, with officials saying earlier they planned to transfer a total of 2,500 people in the first phase. Rights groups, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, alleged that some of the refugees had been coerced into going. “They beat my son mercilessly and even smashed his teeth so that he agreed to go to the island,” said Sufia Khatun, 60, who came to see off her son and five other relatives. Minister refutes claim Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen called the rights groups’ claims “a damn lie”, and said the facilities on the island were “much better” than in the camps. “Bangladesh government has decided to take around 23,000 families to Bhashan Char voluntarily,” he told AFP . “The current camps are very congested... They are going voluntarily.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-begins-shifting-rohingya/article33244703.ece
04 December 2020||Lahore,||15 years imprisonment for JuD spokesperson||Mumbai terror attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed-led Jamat-ud-Dawa’s (JuD) spokesperson Yahya Mujahid has been sentenced to another 15 years in jail by a Pakistani anti-terrorism court in a terror financing case. Last month, Mujahid was handed down 32 years’ jail term by the anti-terrorism court (ATC) in two terror financing cases. Two others sentenced Besides Mujahid, the ATC Lahore on Wednesday also handed down 15 years imprisonment to JuD’s senior leader Zafar Iqbal and six months jail term to Saeed’s brother-in-law Hafiz Abdul Rehman Makki. Earlier, the ATC Lahore had sentenced Iqbal for 26 years’ imprisonment in three such cases. Judge Ijaz Ahmad Buttar announced the verdict under different provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997. The three convicts were present in the court when the verdict was announced The Counter Terrorism Department (CTD) of Punjab police had registered as many as 41 FIRs against JuD leaders, including Saeed, in different cities. The trial courts have so far decided 25 cases. The ATC has sentenced Saeed for a collective imprisonment of 21 years on terror financing charges under sections 11-N of Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997 in four cases so far. Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans. Saeed, a UN-designated terrorist, whom the U.S. has placed a $10 million bounty on, was arrested on July 17 last year in the terror financing cases. The 70-year-old JuD chief is lodged at Lahore’s high-security Kot Lakhpat jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/15-years-imprisonment-for-jud-spokesperson/article33244705.ece
04 December 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, Dec 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai was remanded in custody on Thursday after being charged with fraud, the latest in a string of prosecutions brought against high-profile Beijing critics and democracy campaigners. His detention came as a prominent opposition politician announced he had fled overseas during a trip to Denmark. Mr. Lai is the owner of Apple Daily , a popular tabloid that is pro-democracy and critical of authorities.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-dec-3-2020-afp/article33244704.ece
04 December 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Former Pak. prime minister Zafarullah Khan Jamali dies||Zafarullah Khan Jamali, a veteran Pakistani politician who served as the country’s Prime Minister from 2002 to 2004, died on Wednesday at a hospital in the garrison city of Rawalpindi, days after he suffered a heart attack. He was 76.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/former-pak-prime-minister-zafarullah-khan-jamali-dies/article33244708.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Does India’s neighbourhood policy need reworking?||Recent visits by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval to countries in the region appear to show new energy in India’s neighbourhood policy. Over the past few years, there have been many strains in ties with neighbours — for instance, with Nepal over its Constitution in 2015 and now over the map, and with Bangladesh over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Shyam Saran and Constantino Xavier discuss India’s neighbourhood policy in a conversation moderated by Suhasini Haidar . Edited excerpts:  Is India’s policy in need of reworking? Shyam Saran:This new energy is welcome. However, it is extremely important that our engagement with our neighbouring countries should not be episodic. It should not be event-oriented; it should be process-oriented. And we should have a plan for continuous engagement at various levels. Also, the present political dispensation’s domestic drivers have relegated foreign policy objectives to the background, whether it is with respect to Bangladesh and the CAA or, much more dramatically, with Pakistan. So, I hope that going forward, there will be an awareness that there is a price to be paid if we try to always prioritise domestic factors over foreign policy issues. And this is particularly important in terms of our neighbourhood policy. India should fashion its diplomacy in a manner which does not give rise to feelings [amongst smaller neighbours] of being slighted or marginalised. Constantino Xavier:I would say that India’s neighbourhood policy has been a constant work in progress. It is almost impossible for India to get all its ducks in a row in the neighbourhood at one time as it’s a very complex region. It is one of the largest regions in the world by population. It is one of the least integrated regions with tremendous deficits in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, and interdependence. And it is a region that is now being exposed to various geopolitical competition dynamics, with China making a grand entry and the U.S. developing relations on its own with some of India’s neighbours. So, this is a difficult region, I think, as any official who has dealt with the region recognises, and there will never be great solutions or great setbacks. If the main objective of India’s neighbourhood policy is to connect and have closer links with immediate neighbours, which has been stated by various Indian Prime Ministers over the last 20 years, then I would risk saying that India is doing more than ever today on connectivity and regional policies. The capacity of China to deliver on its commitments exposed India’s deficit, and I would say that China has done India a great favour because it’s really pushed India to do much more, to focus on its neighbourhood, which for a long time it took for granted. In his book The India Way , External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar says in dealing with India’s neighbours “generosity and firmness must go hand in hand”. Do you agree that both are required? SS:No, I think diplomacy is not a simple game of being either tough or generous. I think it is a much more nuanced, complex exercise. I think the bottom line should be that if you have determined what your key interests are, then it is better to make it known what the red lines are. CX:I’d say what is needed from India more than firmness is clarity. It is very easy to accuse any of India’s neighbouring countries of being too close to China. But it’s very difficult to set out the exact terms of what they should or shouldn’t do with China. I’m concerned that sometimes [India uses] the security threat from China as an excuse to limit the capacity [of neighbours] to deepen relations with China or to accept Chinese investment for their own infrastructure modernisation. Naturally all these countries in India’s neighbourhood will try to balance. They will always be anxious about India, which is the de facto giant in this geography. The only way to really solve all this is to focus on creating interdependence in this region that will give India strategic leverage. Is there a way to counter China’s forays into the region, including on COVID-19 assistance? CX:No, we live in a region that has an open competitive market. That means that all these countries in India’s neighbourhood that used to depend and rely much more on India in the past are adopting a first come, first served policy. They have an open door policy and they don’t care if it is Chinese ventilators or Indian ventilators that are reaching their capitals first. Hence, if you look at the various connectivity initiatives that India has taken over the last few years in the neighbourhood, in terms of energy, interdependence, infrastructural connectivity, grants and loans, the numbers have been going up. And that is not just because India’s feeling more generous towards its neighbours; it’s because India is facing competition from China. SS:If we try to match China dollar for dollar, road for road, or project for project, I think we will constantly be trying to catch up. Connectivity is certainly a very important area. Building connections with all our neighbours, whether it is through highways, railways, the revival of riverine transportation or sub-regional energy grids, are things that we can do, because what they do is they bring into play what is one of the greatest assets which we have with respect to all our neighbours, and that is proximity. But this connectivity has to be linked with the ‘software of connectivity’. There is no point in having a glass-topped highway connect if trucks have to stop at the border for hours and hours. The procedures for allowing in cargo or people are still archaic compared to, for example, what we find in Southeast Asia or Europe. Also, we often speak about the importance of transit, for example, through Bangladesh to our Northeast or through Pakistan to Central Asia, but what many people do not realise is that as far as most of our neighbours are concerned, we are the most important transit country. Why can’t we, for example, give ‘national treatment’ to our neighbours with respect to the use of our transportation network or ports, and exports and imports? We should aim to be the best possible alternative in terms of the economic development of our neighbours. If we can do that, I think the picture will dramatically change. Should India see U.S. engagement in the South Asian region as a counter to China, as a boon, or as a cause for concern where India could get cut out? CX:As far as I see, the [government’s] approach for coordination and cooperation with other extraregional powers except China has been welcome. If you look at Nepal [in the past], the British had their development cooperation programme, the Japanese had theirs, the Americans had theirs, and India had its own. And often these countries were working in parallel without coordinating, which only benefited China because it plays a divide and rule approach and has been able to make the most of it. In the past few years, India has been much more open to coordinating and aligning policies in South Asia. That has an advantage because it increases synergies with the Japanese in Sri Lanka for infrastructure financing and with the U.S. and India on political issues, for example. I’d say the bottom line is of working closer together with like-minded partners that are fellow democracies, that think alike about developmental priorities and also about economic connectivity with the rest of the world. SS:I have a slightly different view. Since we are not in a position to really match the kind of resources that China is able to deploy in the neighbourhood, it does make sense for us to join other partners which are currently benign partners, like the U.S. or Japan. But to give you the example of the time that I was Ambassador in Nepal, we coordinated with other countries under the clear understanding that India would be in the lead. So, in the current phase, my sense is that perhaps that element is getting weakened. Perhaps the U.S. or Japan or others may be pursuing projects or activities that are not necessarily aligned to India. This could be a problem in the future. I hope that India’s objectives and interests remain the primary elements in any initiative by other countries in the region. All discussions of India’s policies in the neighbourhood today are held without mentioning the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), given that India had refused to attend the summit in Pakistan over the terrorism issue. Is SAARC dead? Is it even relevant anymore? CX:The format of SAARC is outdated and does not serve the complex, fluid regional cooperation agenda any longer. I think India has taken a pragmatic policy. It is unfortunate of course, but Pakistan has taken a very different approach to regional connectivity, where it sees itself mostly as a hub between China and the Gulf or Central Asian regions, so towards the west and the north, and India therefore had to respond and seek to gravitate more towards the south, to the Indian Ocean region, and the east, across the Bay of Bengal with Southeast Asia. Effectively, what we’ve been witnessing over the last four years is another chapter in the split of the subcontinent between India and Pakistan that has manifested in the stagnation of SAARC. India has revived BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) and worked in the BBIN (Bangladesh-Bhutan-India-Nepal) quadrilateral for a framework on motor vehicle and water governance, which don’t hold India’s cooperation agenda hostage to a consensus at SAARC, which will always depend on a Pakistani veto. SS:BBIN and BIMSTEC should be pursued for their own merits, but I do not see them replacing SAARC. If we consider regional integration to cover the whole of South Asia, even if we are having difficulties currently with Pakistan, even if Pakistan’s orientation is today more towards China or towards its western flank, I think the overall objective and the idea of a fully integrated South Asia is something we should always keep in front of us. Our other neighbours, with perhaps the exception of Bhutan, are interested in SAARC. They see SAARC as a worthwhile platform for regional cooperation. Now, if India is going to turn its back on SAARC, if India walks out, for example, there could even be a possibility of China being welcomed into SAARC. If that were to happen, our challenges would become even worse. So, I think that even though SAARC at this point of time is not functioning as the best instrument for promoting regional cooperation, there are various other reasons, particularly with respect to how the political dynamics in this region are working out, to keep that vision alive. I would not be in a hurry to abandon SAARC.  Our engagement with neighbouring countries should not be episodic. It should not be event-oriented; it should be process-oriented. There is a price to be paid for prioritising domestic factors over foreign policy issues in the region. Shyam Saran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/does-indias-neighbourhood-policy-need-reworking/article33244701.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Personal choices, the Constitution’s endurance||In a short and well-reasoned order, the Allahabad High Court declared last month that religious conversions, even when made solely for the purposes of marriage, constituted a valid exercise of a person’s liberties. The High Court ruled that the freedom to live with a person of one’s choice is intrinsic to the fundamental right to life and personal liberty. In holding thus, the order recognised that our society rested on the foundations of individual dignity, that a person’s freedom is not conditional on the caste, creed or religion that her partner might claim to profess, and that every person had an equal dominion over their own senses of conscience. None of this ought to need spelling out in a secular, democratic republic. Not least over  70 years after its founding. But such are the times that we live in, with various State governments undertaking projects to outlaw what they describe pejoratively as “Love Jihad”, that this decision is an important reminder of the Constitution’s goals and promises. Right to privacy The High Court’s order makes it clear that it is neither the province of the state nor any other individual to interfere with a person’s choice of partner or faith. By invoking the Supreme Court’s judgment in Puttaswamy , the High Court held that an individual’s ability to control vital aspects of her life inheres in her right to privacy, that this promise includes the preservation of decisional autonomy, on matters, among other things, of “personal intimacies, the sanctity of family life, marriage, procreation, the home, and sexual orientation”. Petitioners vs. State The petitioners, Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar, had approached the High Court seeking orders to quash a First Information Report (FIR) that was lodged against them. This FIR alleged that a series of crimes had been committed, including one under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalises the abduction of a woman with an intent to compel her to marry against her will. The petitioners claimed that they were both adults competent to contract a marriage, and had, in fact, wedded in August 2019, as per Muslim rites and ceremonies, only after Ms. Kharwar had converted to Islam. They said, they had been living together for more than a year, and that their peace and happiness had been threatened by the prospects of prosecution. The State resisted these claims. It argued that Mr. Ansari and Ms. Kharwar’s partnership had no sanctity in the law, because a conversion with a singular aim of getting married was illegitimate. In making this argument, the government relied on a pair of judgments delivered by single judges of the Allahabad High Court, in particular on the judgment in Noor Jahan  v. State of U.P. (2014). There, the High Court had held that a conversion by an individual to Islam was valid only when it was predicated on a “change of heart” and on an “honest conviction” in the tenets of the newly adopted religion (https://bit.ly/33BO5QM). Additionally, the High Court had ruled that the burden to prove the validity of a conversion was on the party professing the act. Therefore, in Salamat Ansari , it was argued that it was for the woman to establish that her conversion was borne out of her conscience and out of a deep-seated belief in the teachings of her new religion. The Division Bench rejected this theory. It held that the judgment in Noor Jahan was incorrectly delivered. Marriage, the High Court said, is a matter of choice, and every adult woman has a fundamental right to choose her own partner. Even if such a decision encourages other concomitant decisions, including a choice of religion, the state can have little to do with it. According to the High Court, the Constitution is violated every time matters of intimate and personal choice are made vulnerable to the paternal whims of the state. Freedom of conscience Important as these findings might be, the verdict in Salamat Ansari is not a product of any interpretive ingenuity. Article 25 of the Constitution expressly protects the choices that individuals make. In addition to the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion, it guarantees to every person the freedom of conscience. By its dictionary definition, “conscience” refers to each person’s own sense of moral right and wrong. It is an emotion that cannot be judged from the outside. It is certainly not something that the state can examine as a function of its sovereign authority. Moreover, the idea of protecting one’s freedom of conscience goes beyond mere considerations of religious faith. This much is evident when we ask ourselves why the Constitution accords any protection at all to religious beliefs. Contrary to what some might think, the safeguard that the document affords to religion is not because there is something innate in religious faith that demands special security. On the other hand, this liberty is promised because questions of conscience — which include choices of faith — are matters of ethical autonomy. The provision’s ultimate raison d’être is to allow individuals the freedom to lead their lives as they please. On this understanding, we see that to tether a person’s choice of religion to her knowledge of that faith is to render nugatory the ability of a person to express her own sense of conscience. In overruling Noor Jahan , the Division Bench of the High Court said that it did not see “Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim,” but it saw them rather “as two grown up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily....” A tenuous peace How long, though, can this tenuous peace last? Already, seemingly in response to the judgment, the government of Uttar Pradesh has introduced an ordinance which makes not only religious conversions that are forcefully obtained an offence but that also declares void any conversion found to be made solely for marriage. In supporting the law, the State will likely rely on a 1977 Supreme Court judgment in Rev. Stainislaus v. State of Madhya Pradesh . There, the Court upheld, on grounds of public order, two of the earliest anti-conversion statutes in India: the Madhya Pradesh Dharma Swatantrya Adhiniyam, 1968, and the Orissa Freedom of Religion Act, 1967. These laws required that a District Magistrate be informed each time a conversion was made and prohibited any conversion that was obtained through fraud or illegal inducement. We cannot doubt the proposition that no person should be compelled to choose a certain religion, but to open up to scrutiny every act of conversion by placing on individuals the burden to prove that their decision was conscientious entrenches a form of hard paternalism, where purely private choices are made subject to the State’s ultimate sanction. Respect people’s choices Today, it is hard to see how Rev. Stainislaus constitutes good law. In his treatise on constitutional law, the jurist, H.M. Seervai, wrote that the “judgment is clearly wrong, is productive of the greatest public mischief and ought to be overruled”. Since then, a nine-judge Bench ruling of the Supreme Court, in Puttaswamy , has recognised that every individual possesses a guaranteed freedom of thought; that at the core of liberty is the rights of persons to decide for themselves how they want to lead their lives. When we fail to acknowledge and respect the most intimate and personal choices that people make — choices of faith and belief, choices of partners — we undermine the most basic principles of dignity. Our Constitution’s endurance depends on our ability to respect these decisions, to grant to every person an equal freedom of conscience. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/personal-choices-the-constitutions-endurance/article33244692.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||In farmers’ protests, the core is procurement||Farmers’ protests have erupted once again in north India. The farmers’ unions want nothing short of a complete withdrawal of the recently enacted Farm Acts, which they claim will ruin small and marginal farmers. Their main worry is about a possible withdrawal of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and a dismantling of the public procurement of grains. They also contend that by leaving farmers to the mercy of the open market, the stage has been set for large private players to take over agriculture. Epicentre of the unrest On the other hand, the government claims that the Acts will only increase options for farmers in the output markets, that the MSP-procurement system will continue, and that there is absolutely no plan to dismantle the system. To support its claims, the government points to the fact that there is absolutely no mention of either MSP or procurement in the Acts. So why are farmers so agitated as to go on a march to Delhi, which according to reports, even turned ugly in several places? It needs to be noted that the protests are largely in the States of Punjab and Haryana. If the government’s assertions are true, then why are farmers in these States so rattled? And how true are the claims and counter-claims put forth by the two sides? For a start, the government’s claim that there is no mention of MSP-procurement in the Acts is true. It is also true that a large-scale public procurement of paddy is going on in Punjab as the protests are raging. But farmers are really worried and appear prepared for the long haul. Why? It is the lifeline here The Public Distribution System (PDS) is the lifeline in these States. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana are heavily dependent on public procurement and assured price through MSP. This is far greater than farmers in any other State. Nearly 88% of the paddy production and 70% of the wheat production in Punjab and Haryana (in 2017-18 and 2018-19) has been absorbed through public procurement, Food Grains Bulletin and Agricultural Statistics at a Glance , Government of India (https://bit.ly/3g4i8VY and https://bit.ly/3g5WWiy). In contrast, in the other major paddy States such as Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, only 44% of the rice production is procured by public agencies. In the case of wheat, this percentage is even lower. In the major wheat States of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, only a quarter (23%) of the production is procured by public agencies. This clearly shows the heavy dependence of farmers in Punjab and Haryana on MSP and the public procurement system. In a sense, this system has been the lifeline of these States. It is conceivable then that any disruption to the system, real or perceived, will cause a major upheaval. The farmers are now up in arms against the government as they perceive their very existence to be at stake. Government’s obligations The government needs to continue procurement too. What is missed in this scenario is that if farmers of Punjab and Haryana need the procurement system, the government needs it even more. This is because of its obligations under the PDS and the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Support under the NFSA is a legal and rights-based entitlement. There are nearly 80 crore NFSA beneficiaries and an additional eight crore migrants who need to be supported under the PDS. The government needs an uninterrupted supply of grain, particularly from these two States, to maintain the PDS. In the last three years, nearly 40% of the total paddy production in the country (45 million tons) and 32% of wheat production (34 million tons) has been procured by public agencies to supply the PDS. This year, due to the onset of the novel coronavirus pandemic and the migrant crisis, the government has earmarked much larger quantities for public distribution — about 58 million tons of rice and 37 million tons of wheat. This translates into nearly half of the rice production (49%) and 35% of the wheat production in the country. This implies that the government needs to procure a huge quantum of grains than in previous years as the government cannot afford to go to the open market. That is a sure recipe for disaster as prices will skyrocket, and with the stock restrictions gone under the recent Essential Commodities Act Amendment, there is a possibility of large-scale hoarding too. Why these States matter If the government intends to procure such huge quantities of grains, then it needs to turn to these two States, because it is these States that have always been in the forefront in supplying grains to procurement agencies. Nearly 35% of the rice and 62% of the wheat procured in the last three years has been from these States. Also, nearly 50% of the total coarse grains came from these two States. Thus, the government has little option but to continue its procurement from these States in the foreseeable future. Even after the COVID-19 situation improves and the migrant crisis abates, the obligations under the NFSA will continue. It is clear that dismantling the procurement system is neither in the interests of farmers nor the government. Therefore, it is imperative that the government reaches out to the farmer groups and assures them of the indispensability of MSP-procurement system. The government needs to start this initiative immediately to allay their legitimate concerns. Improvements needed Apart from addressing the core issue of the MSP-procurement system, many more improvements are needed in the Acts. The absence of a regulatory mechanism (to ensure fair play by private players vis-à-vis farmers) and the lack of transparency in trade area transactions are two of the major limitations that need to be addressed immediately. The severe trust deficit that resulted from the way the Farm Bills have been rushed through needs to be addressed by adopting a conciliatory approach towards farmers and the States. C.S.C. Sekhar is Professor of Economics, Institute of Economic Growth, University of Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-farmers-protests-the-core-is-procurement/article33244686.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Timing it right||Buoyed by vaccine optimism, educational administrators are working with vigour to end the prolonged disruption to schooling, and conduct traditional pen-and-paper public examinations in 2021. The CBSE, with more than 20,000 schools under its ambit at the secondary level, has weighed in favour of written mode tests, obviously counting on progress in dealing with the pandemic. As a system with 1.2 million students registering for its senior school certificate examination, and covering schools for expatriates as well, the Board is a bellwether for academic schedules. Quite fortuitously, it was able to wrap up its 2020 examination schedule that began in mid-February, without getting derailed by the national lockdown in March. State Boards, however, are yet to make up their minds on the schedule for annual examinations and the academic session for next year; badly affected Maharashtra and Gujarat are thinking of postponing the final examinations. Reflecting the overall concern on lost academic activities, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has appealed to States to allow its schools to open Classes 10 and 12 in a limited way early in January. These dilemmas reflect those felt across the globe — on arriving at a safe compromise on schooling. In addition, there is also the likely conflict between summer elections in large States such as Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kerala, and the examination schedule for 2021. The strongest argument in favour of a written Board examination is that it eliminates asymmetrical access, including technology deficits, and gives all pupils an equal opportunity to score. Students are relieved that, in line with the experience in countries such as the U.K., the syllabus has been significantly pared down and examination schedules may be put off by a few months beyond March. The availability of a good vaccine that will also cover teachers and students through a staggered programme is arguably key to determining the coming year’s academic time-table. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal’s move to hear public concerns on such issues through an online consultation is a positive step to build consensus. The international view, summarised by the U.S. infectious diseases expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, is that given a choice between bars and schools, it is the latter that should be kept open, posing a lower risk of large-scale infections. India is better placed than America or Europe to provide ventilated classrooms, an important factor in controlling viral spread, because of the climate. Yet, a definitive view on the school schedule for 2021 is not possible until the course of the pandemic over the next few months becomes clear. Poor adherence to safety norms by the average citizen can only jeopardise the reopening of schools further, even with a vaccine available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/timing-it-right/article33244687.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The Iran challenge||When Joe Biden left the government in 2017 after having served as Barack Obama’s Vice-President for eight years, the U.S.-Iran relationship was on a totally different trajectory from what it is now. The U.S., along with other international powers, had signed a nuclear deal with Iran in 2015 and both countries were cooperating in the war against the Islamic State in Iraq. Then came Donald Trump, who pulled the U.S. out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), as the nuclear deal is called, and reimposed sanctions on Iran. Now, when Mr. Biden would assume the presidency on January 20, one of his most pressing early diplomatic challenges would be Iran. During the campaign, his promise was to take the U.S. back to the deal, but any such move would meet with strong opposition from its allies in West Asia, especially Israel. The assassination of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a top Iranian nuclear physicist, last week has escalated tensions in the region. Iran has blamed Israel for the attack (Israel has neither confirmed nor denied reports of its involvement in the hit) and vowed revenge. Any retaliatory actions by Iran could cause a further flare-up, even leading to an open war, which could scuttle diplomatic options for a Biden administration. After the election, Mr. Biden has reaffirmed his commitment to the nuclear deal. But he has said he will seek to extend the restrictions on Iran (15 years, according to the JCPOA) and discuss the Islamic Republic’s “malign” activities in West Asia. This suggests that Mr. Biden, like Mr. Trump did after unilaterally withdrawing from the agreement, would want amendments to the original accord. Mr. Trump had expected Iran to come to the table to renegotiate the deal, but Tehran did not give in to the pressure. When the Trump administration exerted ‘maximum pressure’, Iran came up with ‘maximum resistance’. The tensions took both countries to the brink of war twice, first when Iran shot down an American drone over the Gulf in June 2019 and then when the U.S. killed Iranian General Qasem Soleimani in January this year. The question now is whether Mr. Biden, with an emphasis on diplomacy, would manage to restore the lost trust between the two countries and be able to revive the deal. It is in everybody’s interest that the nuclear deal is revived which would not only deny Iran a path to the bomb but also restore some order in the region. Mr. Biden will have to reassert himself and rein in America’s allies from launching more provocative attacks on Iranian regime figures, and press Tehran to return to the terms of the agreement and further talks on the country’s regional activities in return for economic and security assurances. Iran, on its part, should observe strategic patience and give diplomacy another chance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-iran-challenge/article33244688.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A morale boost for policepersons||In early May, Amit Kumar, a 32-year-old constable, became the first COVID-19 casualty of the Delhi Police. He died after several hospitals refused to admit him. Of the 6,405 personnel of the Delhi Police who had tested positive for the infection (until November 14), 23 had succumbed. In April, sub-inspector Ikram Hussain of the Central Reserve Police Force breathed his last in New Delhi after testing positive for COVID-19. Over 30 personnel of the battalion had to be quarantined thereafter. And in Patiala, Punjab, on April 12, while enforcing the lockdown, assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh was attacked by a group of Nihang Sikhs when they were asked for their curfew passes. One of them chopped off Mr. Singh’s hand with a sword. Fortunately, timely medical intervention helped the surgeons restore his hand. Bearing the brunt Undoubtedly, apart from health workers, policemen have had to bear the brunt of the spread of COVID-19. The very nature of their duties, including during the lockdown, warrants their interaction with the general public. This exposes them to the possibility of falling victim to the virus. It is no surprise that a large number of police personnel have been infected by the virus and many have died. According to the Indian Police Foundation, of the 1.5 lakh police and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) personnel who had tested positive for COVID-19 by the end of October, more than 900 had lost their lives. In Karnataka, data till November 2 show that 9,348 police personnel had tested positive of which 31 had died. In Assam, data till the first week of October show that 4,679 had tested positive, of which 23 had died. The Andhra Pradesh Police recorded over 13,000 cases of COVID-19 till October, of which more than 100 are reported to have died. Until November 6, the Uttar Pradesh Police had reported seven deaths; 567 personnel had tested positive. With a massive inflow of tourists, the Goa Police have had the difficult task of enforcing COVID-19 protocols. In the process, 900 personnel including the Director General, Mukesh Kumar Meena, got infected. In Mizoram, 11 policemen and three Assam Rifles personnel got infected. And so on and so forth. Many policepersons get infected when they deal with crowds while enforcing protocols and interact with the public at police stations. Their task becomes more difficult when their colleagues get infected or quarantined thus depleting the strength of the police on the ground. Many of them have had to put in extra hours of work to compensate for the depletion of strength. To protect their family members from getting infected, many of them either do not return to their homes or maintain distance from their dear ones if they do. Families of those who lose their lives due to COVID-19 are paid compensation by the States. While the Maharashtra government paid Rs. 50 lakh to the families of 50 Mumbai policemen who lost their lives while carrying out their responsibilities during the fight to contain COVID-19, the State Police gives Rs. 10 lakh out of the Police Welfare Fund to the families of the deceased. Another Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh is paid out of the insurance fund. In keeping with the policy of the Delhi government, Amit Kumar’s family was paid Rs. 1 crore. Another Rs. 10 lakh was paid from the Delhi Police Welfare Society fund. Need for recognition The perils for the police and paramilitary personnel during this pandemic are there for all to see. At grave risk to their lives and also to the lives of their kith and kin, they maintain law and order, enforce rules and protect lives. The Central government could recognise their services by instituting a medal to signify the efforts of many in combating the virus. The number of medals on a policeperson’s chest would serve as a morale booster for them. After all, combating COVID-19 is no easy task. The Centre and the States could also reserve jobs for the children of these policemen. It is high time that the governments pay top priority to the health and medical cover of the police and CAPF personnel. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), Central Reserve Police Force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-morale-boost-for-policepersons/article33244696.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Comment is free, but moderators pay||Last year, an investigative report by The Verge had revealed the trauma faced by Facebook’s content moderators. These are the people who weed out the profanity and graphic images that are posted on the platform before it reaches your phones. The report said that having to deal with the bile that humanity has to offer when given a platform to vent left many of them depressed. We have a similar group at The Hindu — our online comment moderators. The Hindu’ s website gives its readers the option to submit comments on stories as long as they follow a small set of conditions. Along with appeals to stick to English and its basic rules, the list of conditions says that personal attacks, abuse, and incendiary comments will not be published. Our commenters seem to be taking an effort only on the English part. Over a thousand of their contributions land in front of our moderators, ranging from the good to the bad to the downright filthy. Of course, we do have the meritorious ones whose takes on news and comment articles enrich the comment space. We would like to thank them for the many instances when their well-constructed thoughts and paragraphs pulled our moderators out of sinkholes of cynicism. There are others who see commenting as a competitive sport. They leave their mark on every story they read in the form of a remark. Often, I have felt an urge to save the world from the inanities that some of them spew, by hitting delete. However, inanity is the least of our concerns. Some of the drivel that turns up in front of our moderators is very far from the poised prose of the ‘Letters to the Editor’ that make it to print. While some express their disgust in thankfully short bursts, there are others who are painfully verbose. The commenting platform that we use has a strong profanity filter. However, creativity on this front is often a step ahead of the technology. The loyalties of the writers or the newspaper as a whole are called into question in terms that make the skin crawl. Then there are those who couch their attacks in language that often leaves you wondering whether you have just been complimented. People also often react quite adversely to their comments being rejected, with our moderators often receiving colourfully worded instructions on how to do their job. The toughest task for the moderator is deciding whether a comment has crossed the thin line between genuine criticism and personal attack. While it is glaringly obvious in most cases, some are tougher to call out. The moderator has to decide whether a commenter is criticising a writer’s understanding of the subject or attacking her personally — the former is acceptable, while the latter is not. Comment moderation definitely has a subjective element to it. A moderator might at times clear a comment that is similar to one that did not pass muster with him or her earlier. At one point, we thought of handing over the task to an Artificial Intelligence platform that is trained in our rules and methods. However, these algorithms are yet to earn the level of trust we have in our own moderators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/comment-is-free-but-moderators-pay/article33244695.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The situation in Fiji (From an editorial)||In the paucity of Fiji news, which a meticulous censorship contrives to secure with wonderful success, it is impossible to grasp the full significance of the telegram, which we published the other day, that thirty thousand Indian settlers in the north of the island are about to sell away their property and sail down to India. The northern and western portions of the island had remained unaffected by the recent riots and were saved from the humiliations and sufferings of martial law. Though not entirely above discontent on account of low wages, the Indians in the north were comparitively better conditioned and there were even wealthy men among them who leased out extensive areas of land from the Colonial Sugar Company. In 1916, according to Mr. C.F. Andrews, there were 1,000 Indian lease-holders who cultivated roughly 13,000 acres of sugar-land and received about £100,000 for the sugarcane which their fields produced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-situation-in-fuji-from-an-editorial/article33244693.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Hundred years of Life Insurance (From an Editorial)||The centenary of life insurance being celebrated this fortnight all over the country should be an ocassion not merely for rejoicing, but more appropriately for stock-taking. The significance of life insurance in a developing economy like ours consists in that it is one of the most useful means both to mobilise savings for developmental schemes and to ensure sound social security to individual families especially when the Government is unable to implement a nationwide social security programme. In assessing the performance of the Life Insurance Corporation, the stress has therefore to be not so much on figures of new business as on how the growth of such business has helped cover an increasing number of families against life risk besides making available more and more funds for investment in a carefully diversified manner. The L.I.C. has no doubt made progress in these fields. The rural sector accounts for 30 per cent of the total policies issued and the middle and low income groups for 70 per cent. But the point is that, in crossing the Rs. 1,000 crores mark in new business, the L.I.C. has only fufilled a target which should have been achieved seven years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hundred-years-of-life-insurance-from-an-editorial/article33244694.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Economy firmly on the path of a V-shaped recovery, says govt.||India’s economy is firmly on the path of a V-shaped recovery after the collapse in the first quarter, and further improvement is expected in the third quarter, ‘notwithstanding some moderation’ in November’s indicators, the Ministry of Finance said on Thursday, attributing the recovery to the unlocking process along with ‘astute’ stimulus measures. The prospects of a second wave of COVID-19 infections, however, remains the key downside risk to the economy, with ‘Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi probably facing their second and third waves’ in November, the ministry said. “However, there is a growing cautious optimism that the steep plunges of April-June quarter may not resurface with significant progress in vaccines and contact intensive sectors increasingly adapting to a virtual normal,” the ministry said in a monthly economic report. “The prospects of a vaccine are encouraging but we need to remain on guard till it is approved and permeates to a large section of the population,” it added, urging people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and maintain safety protocols earnestly. Arguing that inflation, which had risen to 7.61% in October, may have peaked, the Department of Economic Affairs in the ministry said consumer price inflation was likely to ‘decelerate gradually’ as base effects would kick in, and food inflation was expected to cool thanks to a good kharif harvest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economy-firmly-on-the-path-of-a-v-shaped-recovery-says-govt/article33244682.ece
04 December 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI halts HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards||HDFC Bank on Thursday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued an order asking the bank to temporarily stop all new digital banking initiatives and sourcing of new credit card customers. The order, issued on Wednesday, comes after certain incidents of outages in the Internet banking / mobile banking / payment utilities of the bank over the past two years, the latest of which occurred on November 21 due to a power failure in the primary data centre, HDFC Bank said. “In addition, the order states that the bank’s Board [must] examine the lapses and fix accountability. The above measures shall be considered for lifting upon satisfactory compliance with the major critical observations as identified by the RBI,” it said in a regulatory filing. India’s largest private sector bank said that over the past two years it had taken several measures to fortify its IT systems and would continue to ‘work swiftly to close out the balance and would continue to engage with the banking regulator in this regard’. “The bank has been taking conscious, concrete steps to remedy the recent outages on its digital banking channels and assures its customers that it expects the current supervisory action will have no impact on its existing credit cards, digital banking channels and existing operations,” it said. It added these measures would not materially impact its overall business. The stock fell 2.13% on the BSE to Rs. 1,377.05 and was the biggest loser on the Bankex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-halts-hdfc-bank-from-issuing-new-credit-cards/article33244671.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Services PMI signals rise in activity for a second month||The recovery in the Indian services sector was sustained in November as new work orders supported business activity growth and the first rise in employment in nine months, a monthly survey showed on Thursday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index posted above the critical 50 mark that separates growth from contraction for the second month in a row. Despite easing to 53.7 in November, from 54.1 in October, the latest reading was still indicative of a solid pace of expansion. “The Indian service sector continued to recover from the coronavirus-induced contractions recorded from March through to September,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. “Companies enjoyed a further rise in new work intakes and responded to this by lifting business activity and employment,” she added. Services firms hired additional workers in November, ending eight months of job shedding. However, the rate of employment growth was marginal as some companies reported having sufficient staff to cope with current workloads. On prices, the rates of inflation for input costs and output charges accelerated. “Low interest rates aimed at mitigating the negative impacts of COVID-19 on the economy and the latest rise in services employment are supportive factors for domestic demand. However, a pick-up in inflationary pressures could threaten the recovery,” Ms. Lima noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/services-pmi-signals-rise-in-activity-for-a-second-month/article33244677.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCL’s Roshni tops list of India’s richest women||HCL Technologies chairperson Roshni Nadar Malhotra, with a net worth of Rs. 54,850 crore, tops the Kotak Wealth Hurun list of India’s wealthiest women. Trailing her is Biocon’s Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw with a net worth of Rs. 36,600 crore. In the third spot is Leena Gandhi Tewari of the Mumbai-headquartered pharmaceuticals firm USV, with a net worth of Rs. 21,340 crore. The list of 100 richest women is based on their estimated net worth as on September 30. The cumulative wealth of those on the list is Rs. 2,72,540 crore. The threshold for the ranking was a net worth of Rs. 100 crore. According to a release, the 2020 edition of the report focusses exclusively on women who play an active role in their family business, entrepreneurs and professionals. There are 31 self-made women in the list and among them Ms. Shaw is at the top spot, followed by Radha Vembu of Zoho (sister of Zoho founder Sridhar Vembu) with a net worth of Rs. 11,590 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hcls-roshni-tops-list-of-indias-richest-women/article33244664.ece
04 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Aviation loss to widen to Rs. 21,000 cr. in FY21: ICRA||The Indian aviation industry is estimated to report a significant net loss of Rs. 21,000 crore in FY21, against a net loss of Rs. 12,700 crore in FY20, with the industry debt level increasing to Rs. 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over FY21-22, ICRA said in a report. The rating agency said the industry would require additional funding of Rs. 35,000-Rs. 37,000 crore over FY21-23. “The two listed airlines [IndiGo and SpiceJet] have together lost Rs. 31 crore per day during H1 FY21. As the airlines gradually recommenced domestic operations, along with continued chartered and cargo operations, thereby resulting in significantly higher yields, their daily cash burn started reducing,” Kinjal Shah, VP, ICRA Ltd., said. The rating agency said the recovery in domestic passenger traffic depends on containment of the spread of COVID-19, willingness of consumers to undertake leisure travel, recovery in macroeconomic growth, travel restrictions, quarantine norms, and recovery in business travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aviation-loss-to-widen-to-rs-21000-cr-in-fy21-icra/article33244666.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 has accelerated digitisation process: study||COVID-19 had accelerated the digitisation process across industries, and technology service providers saw a jump of 30% digital transformation deals since the pandemic’s outbreak, industry body Nasscom and McKinsey & Co. said in a joint report. The report ‘Future of Technology Services – Navigating the New Normal’ added that there had been an 80% jump in cloud spending and 15% in customer experience during the period. “Investment in digital re-invention and resilient operations saw a dramatic acceleration since the start of the pandemic,” said Noshir Kaka, senior partner and global leader, Analytics, McKinsey & Co. “The report suggests that the world has leapfrogged on digital adoption by 3-5 years in the last nine months,” he added. Nasscom and McKinsey stated in the report that 70% of enterprises were looking to either increase or reprioritise their outsourcing expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-has-accelerated-digitisation-process-study/article33244673.ece
04 December 2020||MUMBAI,||IL&FS gets nod to sell CNTL to CUBE||IL&FS Group said it had received Justice (retd.) D.K. Jain’s approval for sale of Chenani Nashri Tunnelway Ltd. (CNTL) to Cube Highways and Infrastructure Pte Ltd. (CUBE). ITNL (an IL&FS company) jointly along with its nominees, holds 100% equity of CNTL. IL&FS had invited EoIs for sale of its road assets in December 2018. CUBE had bid approximately Rs. 3,900 crore for the entire 100% stake in CNTL. The company said it would now seek approval from NCLT and NHAI to complete the sale transaction. On completion, this sale would help address Rs. 4,910 crore of IL&FS debt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-gets-nod-to-sell-cntl-to-cube/article33244662.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Webinar on exchange traded funds||ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund and The Hindu BusinessLine will conduct a webinar on the topic ‘Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) – Simplified’, on December 5 at 5 p.m. Experts from the industry will provide advice on mutual funds and answer all queries related to mutual funds. The webinar will be a conversation between Chintan Haria, Head, Product Development and Strategy at ICICI Pruduntial Mutual Fund, and Radhika Merwin, Associate Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine.  To register for this free webinar, log on to https://bit.ly/EDITICICI Webinar ID: 884 4761 2671||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/webinar-on-exchange-traded-funds/article33244669.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India can be a $100-bn PCBA hub by 2026’||India has the potential to become a $100 billion global manufacturing and export hub for printed circuit board assembly (PCBA) by 2026 — a key to reducing dependency on China, which is currently the world’s largest exporter, the India Cellular & Electronics Association (ICEA) and EY said in a report. All electronic devices from mobile phones to air conditioners derive their functionality and intelligence from the PCBA, which constitutes up to 50% of the cost of manufacturing. “If support of 6% on exports of PCBAs can be provided, by 2025-26, the cumulative PCBA export for India can be about $109 billion,” ICEA and EY said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-can-be-a-100-bn-pcba-hub-by-2026/article33244674.ece
04 December 2020||MUMBAI,||UltraTech to invest Rs. 5,477 cr. to add capacity||The board of directors of UltraTech Cement, a subsidiary of the Aditya Birla Group, on Thursday approved increasing the production capacity by 12.8 mtpa with a mix of brownfield and greenfield expansion at an investment of Rs. 5,477 crore. The additional capacity will be created in the fast-growing markets of the east, central and north regions of the country, the company said. “This significant investment in a core infrastructure sector will accelerate the wheels of economic activity and aid the kick-start of the private investment cycle,” said Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman, Aditya Birla Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ultratech-to-invest-rs-5477-cr-to-add-capacity/article33244667.ece
04 December 2020||Mumbai,||NCLT gives nod to Reliance Infratel resolution plan; lenders may get around Rs 4,400 cr||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Thursday approved a resolution plan of Reliance Infratel, following which lenders may get about Rs. 4,400 crore. RCom and subsidiary Reliance Telecom Infrastructure will go to UV Asset Reconstruction Company, while Reliance Infratel will go to Jio for a total consideration of Rs. 20,000-23,000 crore to be paid over a 7-year period.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-gives-nod-to-reliance-infratel-resolution-plan-lenders-may-get-around-rs-4400-cr/article33244675.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Future-Reliance deal: Sebi awaits clarification before go-ahead||Markets regulator SEBI has sought some ‘clarification’ from BSE before giving its go-ahead to the Rs. 24,713 crore deal between Future group and Reliance Industries. In an update on November 27, SEBI said it is awaiting a reply to the “clarification” sought on the draft composite scheme of arrangement between Future Group companies and Reliance Group firms.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/future-reliance-deal-sebi-awaits-clarification-before-go-ahead/article33244679.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chhattisgarh accepts GST recompense formula||Chhattisgarh has accepted the alternative offered by the Centre to meet the GST compensation shortfall for States through a special borrowing window, the Finance Ministry said on Thursday. With Chhattisgarh’s acquiescence to the Centre’s formulation to resolve the GST compensation, all States, barring Jharkhand, and all UTs have come on board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chhattisgarh-accepts-gst-recompense-formula/article33244680.ece
04 December 2020||Canberra,||Kohli’s men expected to pose a tougher challenge in T20 series||Short of resources in ODIs, India will have enough options to choose from to pose a stiffer challenge to Australia when the two sides clash in a three-match T20 series beginning here on Friday. The presence of Washington Sundar, Deepak Chahar and T. Natarajan, who did well on his ODI debut on Wednesday, lends the much-needed balance to the bowling department. Washington will be high on confidence after a solid IPL where Royal Challengers Bangalore and India skipper Virat Kohli used him effectively in the PowerPlay and middle overs. With Hardik Pandya not bowling regularly, India had only one specialist all-rounder in Ravindra Jadeja in the one-dayers. However, in the T20s, Kohli will also have the services of Washington in both the departments and there is a possibility that Hardik can roll his arm over for a brief spell like he did from the second ODI onwards. Yorker specialist Natarajan, who was a late addition to the ODI squad, could also make his T20 debut on Friday having shown enough promise in his maiden international appearance. Manuka Oval surface Unlike the SCG, the Manuka Oval surface had enough for both the spinners and pacers. It will be interesting to see who opens the bowling alongside Jasprit Bumrah, with the toss-up between Mohammed Shami and Deepak Chahar. In batting, K.L. Rahul, who batted at five in ODIs, is expected to go back to his preferred opening slot alongside Shikhar Dhawan. The in-form wicketkeeper batsman had also opened in the previous series against New Zealand and would be expected to bat the bulk of the 20 overs like he did so well in the IPL.  Skipper Kohli looked in good touch in ODIs and will be aiming to build on that while number four Shreyas Iyer will be targetting big scores from great starts like he did in the preceding three-match series. Australia, after naming the same squad for ODIs as well as T20s, will back themselves to beat India after a clinical display over the last one week despite injury concerns. Mitchell Starc is expected to return to bolster the attack even as the side misses the services of Pat Cummins, who has been rested as part of the his workload management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohlis-men-expected-to-pose-a-tougher-challenge-in-t20-series/article33244782.ece
04 December 2020||Turin,||Neymar brace keeps PSG in the hunt||Cristiano Ronaldo scored his 750th career goal. Olivier Giroud put on a four-goal masterclass. Neymar got the goals that mattered most to leave Manchester United facing a possible Champions League exit. Neymar scored early and late at Old Trafford as Paris Saint-Germain won 3-1 in the latest bout of a fierce Champions League rivalry to take control of its destiny in Group H. Big mistake United was left to regret not substituting midfielder Fred who seemed lucky not to be sent off in the first half when head-butting PSG’s Leandro Paredes. Fred finally got a red card in the 70th minute just as United tried to come back from PSG taking a 2-1 lead through another Brazilian, Marquinhos. PSG and United are joined on nine points by Leipzig, which got a stoppage-time winning goal to beat Istanbul Basaksehir 4-3 in a thrilling game. Job on hand United has perhaps the toughest task in the final games next Tuesday, travelling to Leipzig while PSG hosts Basaksehir. Borussia Dortmund was the only team to advance on Wednesday, drawing 1-1 at home against Lazio to become the ninth team in the round of 16. Juventus was already safely into the next round before Ronaldo marked his 750th goal for his clubs and Portugal. It was a simple tap-in at the far post in a 3-0 win over Dynamo Kyiv. Chelsea and Sevilla had also advanced before Giroud tore apart the Spanish side on its home turf. The France forward’s perfectly balanced quadruple came from shots with his right and left feet, a header, and then from the penalty spot. Like Real Madrid on Tuesday, Man United lost to leave itself a tense last-round challenge just to qualify for the knockout stage in February. Lopsided In the most lopsided group, Barcelona was able to rest Lionel Messi against Ferencvaros and still score all its goals in the first half hour in a 3-0 win.  Barcelona has five straight wins and leads Juve by three points before they meet in Spain next Tuesday to decide who tops the group. Group winners are seeded in the last-16 draw and play the second leg at home. If Messi and Ronaldo both play, it will be the veterans’ first meeting in the group stage.  The results:   Group E: Krasnodar 1 (Berg 71) bt Rennes 0; Sevilla 0 lost to Chelsea 4 (Giroud 8, 54, 74, 83-pen).   Group F: Club Brugge 3 (De Ketelaere 33, Vanaken 58-pen, Lang 73) bt Zenit Saint Petersburg 0; Borussia Dortmund 1 (Guerreiro 44) drew with Lazio 1 (Immobile 67-pen).   Group G: Ferencvaros 0 lost to Barcelona 3 (Griezmann 14, Braithwaite 20, Dembele 28-pen); Juventus 3 (Chiesa 21, Ronaldo 57, Morata 66) bt Dynamo Kiev 0.   Group H: Basaksehir Istanbul 3 (Kahveci 45+3, 72, 85) lost to RB Leipzig 4 (Poulsen 26, Mukiele 43, Olmo 66, Sorloth 90+2); Manchester United 1 (Rashford 32) lost to Paris Saint-Germain 3 (Neymar 6, 90+1, Marquinhos 69) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neymar-brace-keeps-psg-in-the-hunt/article33244832.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru FC renews rivalry with Chennaiyin FC||Chennaiyin FC will look to get back to winning ways while Bengaluru FC (BFC) would want to secure its first victory of the campaign when the two southern rivals go toe-to-toe at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim, Goa, on Friday. Chennaiyin has looked sharp thus far in the tournament, notching up a 2-1 win over Jamshedpur FC in the opener, and creating quite a few chances against Kerala Blasters before settling for a point, courtesy a spurned penalty. BFC, on the other hand, has started with two draws and is struggling to build momentum. Question marks are being raised over the side’s offensive play, with the 2018-19 champion having recorded just 12 shots in its two games, with only three of them on target. Creative impetus Chennaiyin has not been found wanting in this aspect, with captain and playmaker Rafael Crivellaro and India’s Anirudh Thapa providing the creative impetus. But its goal-conversion rate has to improve and coach Csaba Laszlo will hope that striker Jakub Sylvestr will quickly recover after missing the spot-kick against Kerala. Where BFC has the edge over other outfits is in the fitness department. In an ISL season where players being stretchered off mid-match has become all too common, BFC has a fully fit squad. Cuadrat also confirmed that influential midfielder Dimas Delgado, who is being eased into the team and has come off the bench in both matches, was closer to a starting spot. Laszlo, meanwhile, confirmed that left-back Jerry Lalrinzuala will start instead of Chhuantea Fanai, who was substituted in the encounter versus Kerala with an injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-fc-renews-rivalry-with-chennaiyin-fc/article33245256.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna’s injury-time header breaks Odisha FC hearts||Roy Krishna found the target in the final minute of injury time to help ATK Mohun Bagan beat Odisha FC by a solitary goal in its ISL match at the Fatorda Stadium on Thursday. ATKMB’s third win in as many matches catapulted it to the top with nine points. The first session came alive only after the half-hour mark as the teams focused on getting their midfields organised. Mohun Bagan enjoyed greater possession and came up with more passes, but Odisha created more chances and was unfortunate to not go ahead. Both opportunities came off set pieces, but a goal remained elusive as Odisha’s Australian defender Jacob made a mess of his headers. Off the first attempt, in the 33rd minute, Marcelinho’s corner was sent wide by Jacob. A couple of minutes later, Jacob missed another simple header, handing Odisha a lifeline. Krishna had a chance to put ATKMB ahead in the final minute of the opening half, but his header sailed over. ATK MB showed more aggression after the break, but the incisiveness in attack that had powered it to two wins in its previous two outings was clearly missing. Odisha, too, organised its defence well to ward off the Krishna threat. The Kolkata outfit earned a couple of chances midway through the second session, but Jayesh Rane and substitute Bradden Inman failed to beat Odisha goalkeeper Kamaljit Singh. The match was heading for a goalless draw when a Tiri free kick was headed towards goal by Sandesh Jhingan. Krishna, lurking nearby, headed the ball home past Kamaljit, whose best efforts couldn’t save the day for Odisha.  The result: ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Roy Krishna 90+4) bt Odisha FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krishnas-injury-time-header-breaks-odisha-fc-hearts/article33244776.ece
04 December 2020||Hamilton,||Williamson puts Kiwis on top||Captains Kane Williamson and Jason Holder both wanted to win the toss and bowl on Thursday on a luminous green pitch at Seddon Park on the first day of the first cricket Test between New Zealand and the West Indies. Holder called correctly, eagerly sent in New Zealand and Williamson finished the day unbeaten on 97 — approaching his 21st Test century — with Ross Taylor 31 not out and the home team 243 for two. Carpet of grass The pitch was fully carpeted with grass, almost blending into the outfield, and was so soft that even at the end of a first session extended to 2 hours, 50 minutes — after the start of play was delayed by rain — the ball looked almost new. It was still possible to read the vivid gold lettering on its red surface. After the early loss of Will Young for five on Test debut, Williamson and Tom Latham dug in and added 154 for New Zealand’s second wicket to subdue any of the danger the pitch seemed likely to present. Latham was eventually bowled by Kemar Roach for 86. Williamson was typically patient and technically adept. He mostly played the ball late and under his eyes, using soft hands to mute any unexpected bounce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/williamson-puts-kiwis-on-top/article33244784.ece
04 December 2020||Coimbatore,||Gill to lead JK Tyre’s challenge||JK Tyre unveiled its star-studded team for the FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) set to begin in Arunachal Pradesh on December 16. The line-up has two of the country’s big names Gaurav Gill (co-driver Musa Sherif) and Amittrajit Ghosh (Ashwin Naik). The former has called the shots both home and away and, as expected, will lead the challenge for the Yellow brigade in the overall class. The Arjuna awardee and multiple national champion will be on a Mahindra XUV 300 and alongside him will be his friend and former teammate Ghosh. The championship has attracted quite a few new entrants but all eyes will be on Gill and Ghosh, who have the rich experience of driving to win in different terrains. Testing and feedback “They are two of the country’s finest drivers. Their testing and feedback of our products and development will add tremendous value in our endeavour to return to Indian rallying bigger and better,” said Sanjay Sharma, head of motorsport, JK Tyre. “We are happy to have them lead our challenge. Not just that, even in these unprecedented difficult times, India’s finest talent have found support of JK Tyre, country’s biggest patron of motorsport, adding up to 24 members who will be sporting our colours in the event,” he added. Other drivers The young and hungry Dean Mascarenhas (co-driver Shruptha Padival), the former INRC champion from Mangalore, Suhem Kabir (Coorg), Fabid Ahmer (Kochi) and Syed Salman (Mysuru) are the other drivers who will turn out in JK Tyre’s yellow colours. JK Tyre will also support four local teams from North East that includes an all girls team. Phurpa Tsering (Yashwardhan Kumar), Nabam Asha (Dinky Varghese), Hage Naku (Hage Bitu) and Pem Sonam (Lenin Joseph) are sure to get a lot of support from the fans in Arunachal. Interesting competition “We are looking forward to an interesting competition in the challenging terrains of Arunachal,” said Gill, who has been preparing for the season with renewed vigour. “I am happy to be back with JK after a brief hiatus,” added Ghosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gill-to-lead-jk-tyres-challenge/article33244835.ece
04 December 2020||BENGALURU:,||Cosmos clinches Ashoka Chakra Cup||Darius Byramji-trained Cosmos (Suraj up) won the Ashoka Chakra Cup, the feature event of the races held here on Thursday (Dec. 3). The winner is owned by Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & MRs. P.P.M. Edwards.  The results:   1. LONGCHAMP PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): OMBUDSMAN (Darshan) 1, Secret Source (Akshay K) 2, Garamond (Suraj) 3 and Max Mueller (P.P. Dhebe) 4. 2-1/4, 5 and 8-3/4. 1m 28.48s. Rs. 152 (w), 15, 16 and 12 (p), SHP: 60, THP: 60, FP: 4,810, Q: 950, Trinella: 1,601 and 11,204 (carried over), Exacta: 17,158 (carried over). Favourite: Garamond. Owner: Mr. H.K. Lakshman Gowda. Trainer: V. Lokanath.  2. CORDON BLEU PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: TWINKLE FEET (Ashhad Asbar) 1, See My Heels (Akshay K) 2, Golden Memory (Darshan) 3 and Pastiche (P. Surya) 4. Not run: Black Coffee. 3-3/4, 2-3/4 and 1. 1m 28.95s. Rs. 25 (w), 10, 26 and 12 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 40, FP: 77, Q: 119, Trinella: 369 and 113, Exacta: 2,304. Favourite: Golden Memory. Owner and Trainer: Mr. Imtiaz Khan.  3. WORLD SOIL DAY PLATE (1,600m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): SPORTING MEMORIES (Trevor) 1, Redoubtable (Akshay K) 2, Handsome (Suraj) 3 and Arlette (P.P. Dhebe) 4. Hd, 4-1/2 and 8-3/4. 1m 40.56s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 17 and 16 (p), SHP: 61, THP: 41, FP: 182, Q: 98, Trinella: 412 and 165, Exacta: 730 and 358. Favourite: Sporting Memories. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. P.J. Vazifdar, Mr. M. Rishad & Mr. Kersi H. Vachha. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  4. DECEMBER PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50: ANIMAL QUEEN (Saddam . H) 1, Asgardia (Trevor) 2, Donna Bella (Suraj) 3 and She's Innocent (Chetan K) 4. 2-1/2, 2 and 2-3/4. 1m 15.31s. Rs. 567 (w), 74, 15 and 19 (p), SHP: 49, THP: 71, FP: 1,143, Q: 578, Trinella: 2,525 and 5,892 (carried over), Exacta: 7,680. Favoruite: Asgardia. Owners: Mrs. Shruthi Krishna Murthy & Mrs. Shreya Rajesh Narredu. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  5. KABINI CUP (1,400m), rated 60 & above: AKITA PRO (S. Shareef) 1, Regal Music (Kiran Rai) 2, Roma Victor (S. John) 3 and Malwa (Trevor) 4. 3/4, 3-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 29.01s. Rs. 73 (w), 19, 56 and 19 (p), SHP: 176, THP: 49, FP: 948, Q: 475, Trinella: 2,227 and 5,197 (carried over), Exacta: 7,436 (carried over). Favourite: Malwa. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  6. ASHOKA CHAKRA CUP (1,800m), 3-y-o & over (Terms): COSMOS (Suraj) 1, Salazaar (Anjar Alam) 2, Well Connected (Trevor) 3 and Secretive Force (Irvan) 4. 3-3/4, 5 and 1-1/4. 1m 52.25s. Rs. 24 (w), 14, 14 and 20 (p), SHP: 38, THP: 45, FP: 208, Q: 31, Trinella: 436 and 108, Exacta: 2,379 and 1,529. Favourite: Cosmos. Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  7. BHAGAMANDALA PLATE (1,600m), rated 45 to 65: ASTRAL FORCE (Akshay K) 1, Electra (Suraj) 2, Grey Channel (Irvan) 3 and Lycurgus (Vaibhav) 4. Shd, Nk and 1. 1m 41.06s. Rs. 28 (w), 18, 23 and 20 (p), SHP: 63, THP: 43, FP: 363, Q: 88, Trinella: 841 and 631, Exacta: 2,412 and 2,067. Favourite: Astral Force. Owners: Mr. K. Manoj Kumar & Mr. K. Kamesh. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  8. CORDON BLEU PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: KATANA (Trevor) 1, Realia (Akshay K) 2, Sovereign Legend (Neeraj) 3 and Bombix (Arshad) 4. 1, 3-1/4 and 11-3/4. 1m 28.16s. Rs. 67 (w), 21, 15 and 10 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 103, FP: 238, Q: 224, Trinella: 229 and 76, Exacta: 2,741 and 2,349. Favourite: Sovereign Legend. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra & Mrs. Rina Mahindra. Trainer: S. Attaollahi. Jackpot: Rs. 30,326 (carried over); Runner-up: 6,498 (two tkts); Treble (i): 2,787 (one tkt); (ii): 862 (seven tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cosmos-clinches-ashoka-chakra-cup/article33244836.ece
04 December 2020||Sakhir (Bahrain),||Intriguing spectacle on the cards||Just days after Romain Grosjean’s fireball crash and miraculous escape at the Bahrain Grand Prix, the Formula One circus returns to the same venue besieged by breaking news, but set to deliver the fastest laps of the year. This weekend’s Sakhir Grand Prix may be raced at the same Bahrain International Circuit, but it will run on a different track — the high-speed outer loop — on which lap times are forecast to be around 55 seconds in qualifying and below 60 in the race. After a few fast-moving days that have seen Grosjean understandably ruled out of action by Haas as he heals and rests, following his crash, and newly-crowned seven-time champion Lewis Hamilton placed in isolation after testing positive for COVID, F1 offers an intriguing and unpredictable spectacle. All eyes on Fittipaldi There will be much interest in how Haas reserve Pietro Fittipaldi fares on his debut in the Frenchman's place and perhaps more in studying George Russell's progress in Hamilton's Mercedes after stepping up from stragglers Williams. It is the first time Hamilton has missed a race since his debut at Melbourne in 2007. Russell has two seasons’ experience, but has yet to score a point and his opportunity to run alongside Valtteri Bottas in the 'black arrows' is expected to end that sequence. Only one driver, Niki Lauda at the 1974 French Grand Prix, has previously recorded a sub-60 seconds pole position lap, clocking 58.79 seconds. Bottas, resisting Red Bull driver Max Verstappen’s challenge for runners-up place behind Hamilton, will hope to emulate that feat on a circuit dubbed “an almost oval track” by F1's motorsports chief Ross Brawn. While the inner track at Bahrain has 15 corners, the outer loop has only 11 and is almost one kilometre shorter, making it a novel challenge. It has never been used previously for an international race weekend — and to add drama, both qualifying and the 87-lap race will take place at night under lights. Additional intrigue will be added by seeing Mick Schumacher, who was confirmed on Wednesday as joining Haas next season alongside Nikita Mazepin, bidding to seal the Formula Two title. He is poised to make an early F1 appearance at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, a week later, in Friday practice — and, if Grosjean fails in his bid to recover for a personal F1 finale at the Yas Marina circuit, in the final race of the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intriguing-spectacle-on-the-cards/article33244821.ece
04 December 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI set to add two new IPL teams||A decision on adding two new teams to the Indian Premier League is set to be made during the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) Annual General Meeting (AGM) on December 24. “Approval on inclusion of 2 (two) new teams to the Indian Premier League,” states one of the 23 points on the agenda for the 89th AGM, accessed by The Hindu . The manner in which the item is phrased hints that it’s all but certain that two new teams will be added ahead of the 2021 edition. Keen on expansion The BCCI hierarchy is keen on expanding the IPL and it's not just because of the interest evinced by several corporates. It is learnt that the Board also views the addition of teams as an opportunity to compensate the promoters of the now-defunct Kochi franchise by offering them a team or a stake in a team. The BCCI owes the promoters more than Rs. 5,000 crore after a court-appointed arbitrator ruled against it for wrongful termination. Maximum of six venues  The Hindu understands that unlike in 2010, when a long list of eligible venues was presented to prospective bidders, a maximum of six venues — Ahmedabad, Kochi, Guwahati, Lucknow, Pune and Dehradun — are likely to be offered in the bid document this time around. At least three corporate giants — a Gujarat-based energy firm, a Kolkata-based industrial conglomerate and a prominent banker — are understood to be bracing themselves to enter the bidding war. The agenda does not specify the venue for the AGM, implying that the meeting will be held at the headquarters in Mumbai. Three in the race However, if the authorities in Maharashtra do not give clearance, the meeting may be held in Ahmedabad, Kolkata or Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-set-to-add-two-new-ipl-teams/article33244777.ece
04 December 2020||London,||Premier League comes to the rescue||The Premier League and the English Football League agreed a £250-million rescue package on Thursday, ending months of uncertainty for lower-league clubs struggling to survive during the coronavirus pandemic. Most football in England has been played behind closed doors since March, depriving lower-league clubs of vital matchday revenue, although crowds have been allowed back in limited numbers in certain areas this week. The financial agreement follows months of negotiations between the two football governing bodies, who had been strongly criticised for their failure to reach a deal. The British government consistently said that the Premier League, rather than the taxpayer, must help the English Football League (EFL). £50 million grant Clubs in Leagues One and Two — the third and fourth tiers — will receive grants worth £50 million. The Premier League has committed to cover up to £15 million in interest and arrangement fees to enable a £200 million loan to be secured for clubs in the second-tier Championship. “Our over-arching aim throughout this process has been to ensure that all EFL clubs survive the financial impact of the pandemic,” said EFL chairman Rick Parry. “I am pleased that we have now reached a resolution on behalf of our clubs and as we have maintained throughout, this will provide much-needed support and clarity following months of uncertainty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/premier-league-comes-to-the-rescue/article33244817.ece
04 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Barman’s cameo guides TMC to a thrilling win||Prayas Ray Barman’s late charge helped Tapan Memorial Club pull off an exciting two-wicket win over Kalighat Club in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday. Electing to bat on a spinner-friendly pitch, Kalighat was all out for 108. TMC, precariously placed at 84 for eight, rode on No. 9 batsman Ray Barman’s cameo (25 not out, 14b, 3x6) to reach the target. Gani does the damage Defending a meagre total, Kalighat’s spinners stifled the TMC batsmen. Bowling with precision, off-spinner Aamir Gani caused the maximum damage. He removed openers Gaurav Chauhan and Koushik Ghosh in his first spell and then dismissed Tarun Godara and Vikash Singh in his last over. Meanwhile, Amit Kuila ended Shakir Gandhi’s resistance (20). Ray Barman, who had taken a wicket, exhibited his big-hitting skills, including two sixes off Kuila and one off Sourav Mondal, to help TMC gather 23 in the last two overs. sEarlier, the TMC bowlers, even without an unfit Shahbaz Ahmed, checked the progress of the Kalighat batsmen, including Shubrajit Das (18), Sudip Chatterjee (26), Subham Chatterjee (19) and Toufik Mondal (20). Kalighat lost seven wickets for 39 runs in the last six overs as left-arm spinner Ramesh Prasad (four for 10) and medium-pacer Sandipan Das (three for 21) bowled with accuracy.  The scores: Kalighat Club 108 in 19 overs (Ramesh Prasad 4/10, Sandipan Das 3/21) lost to Tapan Memorial Club 109/8 in 19.5 overs (Ray Burman 25 n.o., Aamir Gani 4/19).   On Wednesday: Town Club 110/6 in 20 overs (Kazi Saifi 40, Sudip Gharami 37, Abhilash Semiwal 2/17, Ravikant Singh 2/19) lost to Calcutta Customs 112/4 in 17.5 overs (Sumanto Gupta 49 n.o., Ananta Saha 2/13) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barmans-cameo-guides-tmc-to-a-thrilling-win/article33245063.ece
04 December 2020||Barcelona,||Messi, Barcelona fined||Lionel Messi was fined €600 for taking his jersey off to pay tribute to Diego Maradona, the Spanish soccer federation said. The federation’s competitions committee fined the Argentine player for his actions after scoring in Barcelona’s 4-0 win over Osasuna in the Spanish league on Sunday. After a strike from outside the box, Messi took off Barcelona’s blue-and-burgundy to reveal the red-and-black of Maradona’s jersey from his stint at Newell’s Old Boys. Messi then blew a kiss with both hands to the sky as he looked upward. After the game, Messi posted a photo of his tribute alongside an older image of Maradona in the same shirt, adding the message ‘Farewell, Diego’ in Spanish. The federation also refused to void the yellow card that was shown to Messi for taking off his jersey, and fined Barcelona €180 euros. Messi and the club can appeal the decisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-barcelona-fined/article33244780.ece
04 December 2020||SAKHIR,||FIA launches probe into fiery Grosjean crash||Motor racing chiefs, on Thursday, announced the launch of an investigation into Romain Grosjean’s fiery Bahrain crash, saying the forensic probe would take “around six to eight” weeks to complete. The French Formula One driver somehow wrenched himself free from his blazing Haas car with just burns to his hands and a broken left foot after a collision with Daniil Kvyat on the first lap of Sunday’s Grand Prix. He left hospital on Wednesday. In the immediate aftermath of the shocking smash, there was widespread praise for modern safety measures in the sport, but also concern over what F1's motor sport managing director Ross Brawn described as “unpredictable” failures. The International Automobile Federation (FIA) said it had “initiated a detailed analysis of Romain Grosjean's accident at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix”. The FIA’s safety director, Adam Baker, said: “With so much data available in Formula 1, it allows us to accurately determine every element of what occurred and this work has already begun. We take this research very seriously and will follow a rigorous process to find out exactly what happened before proposing potential improvements.” The FIA probe will look at a range of factors including Grosjean’s helmet, safety harness, headrest, in-car extinguisher and the Halo cockpit protection. The Halo device is widely considered to have helped save Grosjean’s life as his car was sliced in two after careering into a barrier. “The ‘halo’ saved the day and it saved Romain.,” Brawn said on Sunday. “There was controversy in developing it initially, but there can't be any doubt now, so hats off to those who pushed for the introduction. “The fire is worrying. The split in the barrier is worrying and the barrier coming apart, but we can be happy with the safety of the car — that got us through today, but things failed in an unpredictable way. We haven't seen anything like that for a very long time, but the barrier splitting normally results in a fatality.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fia-launches-probe-into-fiery-grosjean-crash/article33244819.ece
04 December 2020||Turin,||Frappart makes history||Stephanie Frappart became the first woman to referee a men’s Champions League game on Wednesday as Cristiano Ronaldo scored his 750th career goal in a 3-0 win for Juventus over Dynamo Kiev. “Another barrier has been broken down, we know that she is very good, which is the most important and fundamental thing,” Juventus chief football officer Fabio Paratici said before the game of Frappart. The 36-year-old Frappart has already made history as the first woman to referee in Ligue 1, and took charge of the 2019 UEFA Super Cup final between Liverpool and Chelsea. She also made her Europa League debut in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/frappart-makes-history/article33244816.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Shunning royalty||In the Rama avatara, the Supreme One was the son of an Emperor, and so He was naturally treated with a great deal of respect. As a result, common men maintained a distance from Him. The Lord wanted to mingle with ordinary people. The only way to do that was to get away from the royal family and the court. Mantara’s advice to Kaikeyi, and Kaikeyi’s atrocious demands were all just excuses for Him to achieve what He wanted, namely, to befriend the common man. Kaikeyi’s demand that He should go to the forest suited His purpose perfectly, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. This is the very purpose of avataras — to gladden the hearts of those who adore Him, by giving them an opportunity to be with Him. Because He went to the forest, He was able to make friends with Guha, to accept Sabari’s offerings, to accept Sugreeva as a friend and so on. But all this was for only a period of 14 years. When His exile ended, Rama became Emperor, and again his subjects maintained a respectable distance from Him. The Lord was determined that in His next avatara, this problem would be addressed, which is why as Krishna, He grew up among the cowherds, playing with them, dancing with the Gopikas, and being as naughty as any other child of that age would be. Right from His birth, He exhibited His simplicity. He was born in a prison and was taken away to grow up elsewhere. Krishna’s father Vasudeva was of royal lineage, but because of the curse of his ancestor Yayati, Vasudeva did not rule his kingdom, even after the killing of Kamsa. He made his father-in-law Ugrasena the king. Thus, Krishna was born in a Kshatriya family, but it was not a family that ruled. So the royalty that kept Him far from people in the Rama avatara was not a hurdle in the Krishna avatara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shunning-royalty/article33244772.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Also on the agenda||Election of vice-president, with Mahim Verma resigning earlier this year Appointment of cricket committees, including the selection panels, standing committees and umpires committee Discussion on inclusion of cricket in 2028 Los Angeles Olympics Updates on 2021 T20 World Cup scheduled in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/also-on-the-agenda/article33244778.ece
04 December 2020||KOLKATA,||24 wrestlers for individual World Cup||India will field 24 wrestlers, including Olympics medallist Sakshi Malik and Worlds medallists Ravi Kumar Dahiya and Deepak Punia, in the individual World Cup to be held in Belgrade from December 12 to 18. Some top wrestlers, including Bajrang Punia (65kg), Jitender (74kg), Somvir (92kg) and Vinesh Phogat (women’s 53kg), will skip the event. Participation in the tournament, which will be held in place of the World championships, has been approved by the Government at an overall cost of more than Rs. 90 lakh.  Selected wrestlers: Men: Freestyle: Ravi Kumar Dahiya (57kg), Rahul Aware (61kg), Naveen (70kg), Gourav Baliyan (79kg), Deepak Punia (86kg), Satyavrat Kadian (97kg), Sumit (125kg).   Greco Roman: Arjun Halakurki (55kg), Gyanender (60kg), Sachin Rana (63kg), Ashu (67kg), Aditya Kundu (72kg), Sajan (77kg), Sunil Kumar (87kg), Hardeep (97kg), Naveen (130kg)   Women: Nirmala Devi (50kg), Pinki (55kg), Anshu (57kg), Sarita (59kg), Sonam (62kg), Sakshi Malik (65kg), Gursharanpreet Kaur (72kg), Kiran (76kg).   Bajrang Punia, Jitender, Somvir and Vinesh Phogat to skip the event||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/24-wrestlers-for-individual-world-cup/article33244829.ece
04 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,||More than 200 took COVID-19 tests, says HCA secretary||More than 200 cricketers, support staff, scorers and umpires underwent COVID-19 tests at the Gymkhana Ground on Thursday, according to HCA secretary R. Vijayanand. The reports of the tests will be intimated personally to the players by Friday evening. Vijayanand told The Hindu that a majority of those who took the tests were players from the 16 teams in the three-day league format, adding that a few more are expected to take the tests on Friday. “We have decided to conduct other tests too before every match in order to keep track of every player once the three-day A-Division league begins soon,” Vijayanand said. The schedule of the three-day league will be announced soon, he said. “Obviously, we want to start the league and eliminate the risk element of the pandemic completely,” he said. “Once, we get a feel of how the league goes, we will finalise the programme of the other A-Division leagues,” the HCA secretary said.   M. Dharma Sai Teja defeated Sarthak 15-3, 11-7, 11-6 in the cadet boys’ qualifying round of the seventh Telangana State Stag district and State-level table tennis championship at the St. Paul’s High School (Hyderguda).  The results: Qualifying: Cadet boys: M. Dharma Sai Teja bt Sarthak (MLR) 15-13, 11-7, 11-6; Aashrith (Genesis) bt Hasir Rana (YMCAXTTA) 11-6, 16-18, 13-11, 11-3; V. Manohar (GSM) bt E. Ved Kasish (GSM) 11-5, 11-9, 8-11, 9-11, 11-6; Virat (MLR) bt V. Manpreeth Kumar 11-5, 13-11, 11-7; G. Nithrik (Nlg) bt V. Raj Kumar 11-7, 11-9, 11-2; Jaffar Hussain (LBS) bt Ishan (Genesis) 11-7, 11-5, 11-4.   Cadet girls: Group I: Jalani (VPG) bt Archana (Genesis) 11-2, 11-0, 11-0; Jalani bt Sri Vidya (GSM) 11-4, 11-5, 11-6; B. Sri Vidya bt Aarika 11-4, 11-6, 11-7; Sri Vidya bt Archana (Genesis) 11-3, 11-3, 11-3.   Group II: Pragyansha Patra (VPG) bt Sanskriti (HVS) 11-2, 11-0, 11-5; Pragyansha bt Rahamath Unnisa (YMCA) 11-3, 11-5, 11-3; Pragyansha bt Chinmayee (SPHS) 11-5, 11-4, 11-3; Rahamath bt Chinmayee 11-8, 11-4, 11-9; Rahamath bt Sanskriti 11-2, 11-6, 5-11, 11-1.   Group III: Vatsala Tirunagar (HPS) bt Devanshi (MLR) 11-8, 11-2, 11-0; Vatsala bt Sanvi (MLR) 11-5, 11-2, 11-8; Vatsala bt Aniyah Anand (Prott) 11-6, 11-4, 11-6; Aniyah Anand (Prott) bt Sanvi 11-3, 11-4, 11-3; Aniyah bt Devanshi 11-7, 11-7, 11-4.   Group IV: A. Satya (GSM) bt G. Vaishnavi (VAT) 11-2, 11-5, 11-2; Satya bt Chaitra (APG) 11-7, 11-5, 11-5; Chaitra bt G. Vaishnavi (VAT) 11-5, 11-5, 11-4 .    Ramakrishna Rao, former Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh volleyball coach and District Development Sports Officer (Sangareddy), passed away here on Wednesday night. He was 79. Ramakrishna Rao is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/more-than-200-took-covid-19-tests-says-hca-secretary/article33245327.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy win for LB Shastri||LB Shastri Club beat Madan Lal Academy by nine wickets in the Turf Youth Cup under-19 cricket tournament.  The scores: Madan Lal Academy 101 in 28.4 overs (Yuvraj Singh 47, Sanyam Jain 3/6, Sampoorn Tripathi 3/13) lost to LB Shastri Club 107/1 in 14.2 overs (Deepesh Balyan 54 n.o., Ayush Sharma 41) .    Kairav Singhani picked up four wickets and Aditya Naithani top-scored with 88 as Uday Gupte Academy defeated West Delhi Academy by five wickets in the Hari Ballabh Sharma memorial under-14 tournament.  The scores: WDA 171 in 39.4 overs (Aryan Kumar 33; Kairav Singhani 4/40) lost to UGA 174/5 in 38.5 overs (Aditya Naithani 88) .    An unbeaten 69-ball 116 by Neha Chillar and Arshi Panwar’s 97 saw Chharya Karana Academy beat RSK Club by 136 runs in the Anuradha Memorial girls’ cricket tournament.  The scores: CKA 238/1 in 25 overs (Neha Chillar 116 n.o., Arshi Panwar 97) bt RSK Club 102/8 in 25 overs (Sanskriti Chauhan 33) .    Udaybhan Academy defeated MR Academy by seven runs and entered the final of the third Vicky Bandrey memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: UBA 176 in 37.5 overs (Arnav Dhawan 63, Akash Kumar 38, Yash Vardhan Dalal 3/18) bt MRA 169 in 36.5 overs (Yash Vardhan Dalal 79, Rushal Saini 3/24) .    Rohan Rathi (70 not out, 3/26) came up with an allround show in Sporting Club’s nine-wicket win over San Time Watch Academy in the fifth Shanti Devi memorial tournament.  The scores: STWA 147 in 35 overs (Sparsh 4/17, Rohan Rathi 3/26) lost to Sporting Club 150/1 in 12.4 overs (Pradeep Sangwan 76 n.o. Rohan Rathi 70 n.o.) .    A five-wicket haul by Raghav Kumar helped Friends Club edge past Youth Club by one run in the Ghevra Cup cricket tournament.  The scores: Friends Club 233/7 in 40 overs (Mrigank Pathak 72, Vikas Kumar 54, Mayank Kumar 52) bt Youth Club 232/9 in 40 overs (Vatsal Govind 92, Krish Kumar 56, Raghav Kumar 5/36) .    Positive Roads Academy beat Ganga International Academy by 172 runs to enter the final of the P.T. Wings Sports tournament.  The scores: PRA 313 in 39.4 overs (Vikas Kumar 76, Yash Sharma 48, Raj 3/51) bt GIA 141/8 in 36 overs (Pukhraj Singh 59, Yash Sharma 5/20) .    A quickfire 112-ball 190 by Delhi under-23 batsman Dhruv Kaushik saw Telefunken Club thrash SC Academy by 266 runs in the Friendship Cup cricket tournament.  The scores: Telefunken Club 339/5 in 40 overs (Dhruv Kaushik 190, Piyush Mittle 49, Sahil Wilson 43) bt SCA 73 in 14.5 overs (Rohan Prachanda 4/8) .    Half-centuries and two wickets each by Harshit Sethi and Karan Sharma helped Noida Wonder defeat Sehgal & Choudhary Academy by three wickets in the first Choudhary Shyam Singh memorial T20 tournament.  The scores: SCA 149/5 in 20 overs (Anmol Sharma 56, Karan 30, Ayush Badoni 28, Harshit Sethi 2/21, Karan Sharma 2/15) lost to Noida Wonder 150/7 in 19.4 overs (Harshit Sethi 57, Karan Sharma 55, Vishal Choudhary 2/32) .    Haryana Ranji Trophy batsman Deepak Punia scored 74 not out and Vipul Choudhary took 4/32 as Youth XI beat RP Academy by five wickets in the first Tripathi Premier League.  The scores: RPA 215 in 39.5 overs (Vaibhav Rawal 86, Aryaman Sen 60; Vipul Choudhary 4/32) lost to Youth XI 219/5 in 35 overs (Deepak Punia 74 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-win-for-lb-shastri/article33245320.ece
04 December 2020||AGRA:,||Boopathy blanks Ayush, enters semifinals||Boopathy Sakthivel blanked Ayush Sharma to reach the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament semifinals here on Thursday. In the semifinals, Boopathy will play Ayub Ahmed Khan.  The results (quarterfinals): Yash Yadav bt Nishith Naveen 6-1, 6-4; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Abhishek Saroha 6-1, 6-1; Ayub Ahmed Khan bt Varnit Arora 6-2, 6-4; Boopathy Sakthivel bt Ayush Sharma 6-0, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boopathy-blanks-ayush-enters-semifinals/article33245064.ece
04 December 2020||SONEPAT:,||Prashant in quarterfinals||Prashant Kumar fought his way past Gajender Singh 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament on Thursday.   The results (pre-quarterfinals): Prashant Kumar bt Gajender Singh 6-4, 4-6, 6-2; Karan Singh bt Hemant Kumar 6-0, 6-1; Ricky Choudhary bt Dhananjay Singh 7-5, 6-4; Sandesh Dattray bt Vaibhav Kundu 6-2, 6-3; Yogee Panwar bt Amit Dahiya 6-4, 6-4; Fardeen Qamar bt Chinmay Chauhan 6-3, 6-4; Ajay Malik bt Siddharth Asaudha 6-1, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prashant-in-quarterfinals/article33245065.ece
04 December 2020||GURUGRAM:,||Arnav cruises past Jai||Unseeded Arnav Yadav cruised past Jai Rana 6-1, 6-3 to make the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament under-18 boys’ final here on Thursday. In the final, Arnav will challenge second seed Lokesh Pun.  The results:   sUnder-18: Boys: Semifinals: Arnav Yadav bt Jai Rana 6-1, 6-3; Lokesh Pun bt Mukil Ramanan 6-4, 6-2.   Girls: Semifinals: Ruchita Talwar bt Riya Sachdeva 6-2, 6-3; Shruti Ahlawat bt Tamanna Panwar 6-0, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arnav-cruises-past-jai/article33245066.ece
04 December 2020||Cairo,||Sidharth outplayed||Qualifier Carlos Sanchez Jover of Spain outplayed third seed Sidharth Rawat 6-2, 6-0 in the second round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament in Cairo on Thursday. Arjun Kadhe lost 2-6, 7-6(5), 6-3 against second seed Fabrizio Ornago of Italy in the first round.  The results: $15,000 ITF men, Cairo: Second round: Carlos Sanchez Jover (Esp) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-2, 6-0; First round: Milijan Zekic (Srb) bt Manish Sureshkumar 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sidharth-outplayed/article33244837.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Theobroma’s southern sojourn||Kainaz Messman Harchandrai, the co-founder of Theobroma, the patisserie with a cult following, calls her journey a home-grown one. Mumbai-based Theobroma just opened its first outlet at Jubilee Hills in Hyderabad on December 1, and Kainaz is overwhelmed at the response. “We were not expecting this turnout. I am grateful for the love. We plan to open three more in Hyderabad,” she says. Established in 2004 as a single Parsi family-owned outlet at Cusrow Baug, Mumbai, Theobroma today has 60 outlets across Mumbai, New Delhi, NCR and Pune. Now, after Hyderabad, it plans to expand further south and enter Bengaluru by next year. An alumna of The Institute of Hotel Management (IHM), Mumbai, and Oberoi Centre of Learning & Development (OCLD), Delhi, Kainaz was a pastry chef at the Oberoi Udaivilas in Udaipur before starting Theobroma in 2004. Though a chef by choice, her family made her an entrepreneur. “We want to expand and be available across the country, but it is not an easy task. Our training for the staff alone is for a year and then there are other logistics involved,” Kainaz says. Describing the hard work and effort required to make their signature pastry, chocolates, sandwiches and more, she adds, “We always wanted to set a benchmark for basic, high-quality desserts but not price them high. Our products are made using the best available local produce over expensive imports.” Kainaz and her sister Tina recently wrote Baking a Dream: The Theobroma Story , published by Harper Collins India. The sisters tell the story of how their ambitious and slightly eccentric Parsi family grew a home-catering enterprise into a successful business venture. “In the book, we take a no-holds-barred look at the challenges of working with family and offer tips on how to turn a passion for baking into a profitable career. At the end of the day, we are family and we make up and brush aside our differences and come to a understanding that works best for the brand. Sharing our stumbles and successes,” says Kainaz, adding that the book serves as a guide to entrepreneurs looking to scale up their ventures. Talking about their bestsellers, Kainaz points out a few of her favourites: “The pineapple pastry, the brownies, the chocolate mousse, fruit danishes — quite a lot actually. What I usually always have at home are the almond biscottis and the pralines. Either one of them is a must-have with an evening cup of coffee with my husband.” Theobroma’s first Hyderabad outlet is at Jubilee Hills, Road No. 10, Apurupa BDR. Call 8886653160/1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/theobromas-southern-sojourn/article33244974.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Leap of faith||He calls himself ‘the most incompetent criminal in the world’. Also known as ‘the gentleman bandit’, Gregory David Roberts admits he was so polite that often people didn’t realise they were being robbed. In fact, after he targeted a bank, a woman teller was quoted as saying, “He was so polite we wouldn’t mind if he comes back again.” And he did. Born in Australia, Gregory, a former heroin addict and an armed robber was sentenced to a 10-year imprisonment. In 1980, he escaped the maximum security Pentridge Prison and landed in India, where he made a home in Dharavi, Mumbai. He was recruited for counterfeiting and forging passports, and then jailed in an Indian prison. In 1990, he was captured in Germany and sent back to Australia, where he was put in solitary confinement. It was during this isolation that Shantaram was born. The book, which chronicles his days in Mumbai, sold more than six million copies worldwide, and was published in 41 languages, including Marathi. Hailing from a family of musicians, Gregory gave vent to his feelings through rich lyrical content during his imprisonment, but never recorded those songs. In 2018, however, he started writing new songs. His first album, Love & Faith , co-produced with Dale Virgo, releases on Friday.  Edited excerpts from an exclusive interview via e-mail from Jamaica:   Isolation is a new experience for the world because of this pandemic. You had your time in isolation. How do you compare?  I spent three and a half years of my life in solitary confinement — 1,320 days and nights. I was fortunate to have had that time in isolation. It brought me to a much more honest appraisal and understanding of my strengths and weaknesses, and acceptance of my own responsibility for the suffering I’d inflicted and endured, and allowed me to become comfortable in my own skin. One of the main causes of anxiety and depression is an inability to be serene in the isolation of our own company. This is why isolation is used as a punishment. However, as the world is learning now, finding empowerment, resilience and fulfilment within the self is a critical survival skill. Solitary confinement triggered the creative bug in you. Would it have happened under different circumstances as well? I’ve always had the creative bug. In prison, on a battlefield, in a slum ghetto, in the company of gangsters or saints, I’ve always written something every day, and I always have at least three creative projects on the go at the same time, such as music, writing and collage art. I’ve never experienced writer’s block: it must be terrifying, but I’ve never known the feeling. I’ve always got more projects than the time in which to do them. The albumLove & Faithprojects love, hope, faith and positivity, with no bitterness, despite your experiences. What made it possible? Born that way. I’ve always found it easier to forgive others than myself, and I’ve never hated anyone, even the men who were torturing me for information in prison. Almost seven years ago, I stepped back from public life, went off the grid, and took the leap of faith. After taking the necessary steps to clean my heart and mind, I acknowledged the Divine Perfection, surrendered the unrequired elements in my ego, and became sincerely devoted, blowing a conch shell seven times in a row, twice a day. This has consolidated my spiritual inclinations, and given me a direction on the spiritual path. A little non-fiction book about those years, called The Spiritual Path , will be released in eBook soon, and in book form next year. Is creating music (this album) a way of redemption for you? Music is in no way an act of redemption for me: on the contrary, it’s a reflection of redemption: the redemption of the honour and integrity I threw away. For me, art shouldn’t be about anything. Art is a communication that involves work, skill, coherence and love. It comes from the heart of the artist: it’s a personal, emotional time-capsule to be opened by others. The extent to which the art connects with our common humanity, heart to human heart, is the entirety of its purpose for me. Have you ever wished you had arrived in Mumbai and experienced the city differently than through Dharavi and the underworld?  I wouldn’t change anything, although I would try to live so as to avoid harming any living thing. Mumbai is a city with the biggest heart I’ve ever known, and I’ve been graced by fortune in having lived as a pavement dweller, in a jhopadpatti (slum) and a five-star hotel, and knowing many of the glorious hearts in the immense Indian family. When writingShantaram, did you expect it to be received the way it did?  I think there’s a project, in the life of every artiste, that we know is the best thing we’ve done, and maybe the best thing we’ll ever do. I felt that way when I was writing Shantaram . I felt that my life experience was rich and diverse enough to offer readers a well-informed and gently guided journey. But I should add, I spent three years ‘on the road’ promoting the novel in 15 countries on TV, radio, online, and in print. It was all that constant travelling and hard work that made the book successful.  One of the main causes of anxiety and depression is an inability to be serene in the isolation of our own company. This is why isolation is used as a punishment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/leap-of-faith/article33244978.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Saving the pot of nectar||Story so far: In his quest to free his mother, Garuda agrees to bring the nectar of immortality to the snakes. He defeats the devas and snatches away the pot of amrit.  Once he left Lord Vishnu, Garuda flew on, eager to give the snakes the pot and take his mother away. Indra, who had been watching him, was both impressed and anxious. As a last-ditch effort, Indra threw his Vajrayudh, the thunderbolt, at Garuda. But it had no impact. Overawed, Indra approached Garuda and said, “Oh king of birds, I have never known anyone as strong as you. I would like to stop fighting with you. Please let us be friends.” Seeing that Indra was in earnest, Garuda agreed. As they both chatted, Indra asked, “Even my powerful Vajrayudh didn’t harm you. Can you tell me how strong you are?” Garuda laughed, “Thanks to the powers bestowed upon me, I can support the entire world on a single feather.” Hatching a plan An amazed Indra realised that no army could ever defeat this mighty being. He decided to throw himself at Garuda’s mercy. “Since you are now my friend, I will be frank with you. I do not want the snakes to drink the nectar and become immortal. If that happens, they might begin to harass people.” Garuda agreed. “But to free my mother and myself, I have to give them the amrit . What shall we do?” The two came up with a plan. Garuda flew off with the nectar. When he reached their dwelling, he showed the snakes the pot. Overjoyed, they immediately freed Vinata and Garuda. Now it was time to put the plan into action. Garuda placed the pot on a bed of kusha grass and suggested cunningly, “Shouldn’t you all bathe and purify yourselves before you drink the nectar?” The snakes accepted the suggestion and went off to bathe in the river. Once they had all left, Indra who had been an invisible spectator quickly picked up the pot of nectar. Holding it safe, he said, “Thank you for your help. Ask me anything and I’ll grant your wish.” A boon granted Garuda thought over what he wanted. All this occurred only because his mother had been ill-treated by Kadru and her sons. They had to be taught a lesson. “Let snakes be my natural food, henceforth,” he said. Indra granted the wish and left, happy to have saved the nectar from the snakes. Garuda too lifted his mother on to his back and flew away. When the snakes came back, they found the nectar missing. Hoping that some drops may have fallen down, they licked the kusha grass but its sharp blades cut their tongues. And so, legend has it, that snakes have had forked tongues since then.  (The End)   “I would like to stop fighting with you. Please let us be friends,” said Indra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/saving-the-pot-of-nectar/article33245623.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The silver bottle On Destiny Island||The story so far: Aniket and Fortune are heading towards Lady Laura Lucklina’s castle by a boat steered by Omen, who answers Aniket’s questions on his future.  “If not the sports captain, will I become the vice-captain?” Aniket asked hesitatingly. Tap, tap, tap, tap, tap. The oars hit the side of the boat five times. “Five taps mean MAYBE,” Aniket frowned. “Why aren’t you sure about that?” “What a smart guy Omen is. He is not committing himself,” Aniket whispered to Fortune. “Don’t ask so many questions, Aniket,” Fortune scolded. “Omen dislikes being asked more than three questions at any time. After that, all his answers will be MAYBE. Let there be an element of surprise when school re-opens tomorrow. If you know everything that’s going to happen beforehand, there will be no surprise in life.” Strange sights Omen avoided the large and dangerous rocks and brought them safely to the island on which stood the golden castle, with its minarets, turrets and a diamond-studded tower towering above the wall. Aniket looked around. They were surrounded by water on all sides. He was finally on Destiny Island! Laura Lucklina’s diamond-encrusted tower looked heavenly. Aniket couldn’t take his eyes off it. Beside it, the magnificent golden castle paled in comparison. A large yellow fish, the size of a small boat, swimming near the shore turned towards them. “I’ve been waiting for a long time to see you all,” she said, diving back into the water immediately, without waiting for a reply. “That’s Patience, Laura Lucklina’s pet fish,” Fortune said. “You are lucky, she spoke to you. She greets very few visitors.” “Is she dangerous?” “Not at all, but she is aloof like her mistress.” While walking towards the castle’s main gate, Aniket saw several sea-shells. But before he could pick them up, a large, ferocious black scorpion approached him. “Don’t come near, I’ll bite you,” the scorpion said. Aniket shivered. “That’s Anger, another of Laura Lucklina’s crazy pets,” Fortune said. Patience, who had heard Anger issue the warning, said, “Don’t be rude to the visitors,” she said softly. “Mind your own business,” the scorpion rebuked. As the scorpion and the fish argued, Aniket and Fortune sprinted towards the castle’s main gate. “Oh no,” the scorpion groaned, on seeing the visitors run away. Not able to keep pace with them, Anger soon gave up the chase and returned to fight with the fish. But Patience had disappeared, as her mission of distracting the scorpion had worked. The visitors had reached the castle gate safely. A gnome dressed in blue dungarees stood outside the castle’s main gate, holding a long black spear in his right hand.  To be continued...   If you know everything that’s going to happen beforehand, there will be no surprise in life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-silver-bottle-on-destiny-island/article33245587.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Where the sun wears glasses||Mary was the art teacher for Std II A. That day, she was teaching her students to draw scenery. Akila yawned. She disliked drawing. Mary noticed some students had gathered around Tina and were laughing at her drawing of a sun wearing sunglasses and trees with ice creams on them. Mary asked Tina to draw exactly the way she had taught. “Buy a separate notebook, in which you can draw as you like,” said Mary. “I do have a notebook for my drawings, Miss,” said Tina and took out a small notebook from her bag. Going through it, Mary saw that Tina had drawn a rainbow with two girls sitting on it. Mary had also done similar drawings when she was Tina’s age. Mary’s second-grade art teacher, Kumar sir, had encouraged her to draw as she wished in the art class. He had once asked his students to draw their dreams, and Mary had drawn a picture of a girl climbing a ladder to touch the moon. Kumar sir had praised her drawing. In an inter-school drawing competition, which Mary and her classmates took part in, the topic given to them was ‘Scenery’. Unexpected Later, when the results were announced, none of the students from Mary’s school had won any prize. All the drawings were displayed in the city town hall. Mary’s mother had been shocked to see her daughter’s drawing: the hills had pink and yellow flowers. Standing on top were two girls sharing ice cream with a smiling sun. “Look at this scenery that won the first prize! The hills are coloured brown. The sun doesn’t have a smiling face. There is a river and a house. You should have drawn like this!” her mother had said. The drawings of the other students were also unique. Kumar sir tried to explain to the angry parents that the children had displayed their creativity through their drawings. But the parents criticised his method of teaching. After a month, Kumar sir had resigned. All his students missed him, especially Mary. She now wondered where Kumar sir was. A week later, during art class, Mary asked Tina if she drew anything else in her notebook. “No, Miss! My friends say that my drawings are not good. So I have stopped drawing,” said Tina. Mary was shocked. Then she had an idea. She told her students to draw their dreams. Her students looked puzzled. “What do you dream of, Akila?” asked Mary. “Once, I dreamt that I was in Chocolate Land,” said Akila. “Then draw that,” said Mary. Akila was excited and so were the other students. Tina drew her dream of flying across the night sky and painting all the stars in gold. Mary smiled as she saw her students’ imagination soar. “Now, for your homework: If you had a magic wand, what would you use it for? That is what you have to draw,” said Mary. She also advised Tina to keep drawing in her notebook. The following week, the students submitted their homework. Akila handed over a separate sheet with a drawing showing an elderly man using his wand to make it rain on fields and dried-up river beds. A note below read: “Thank you for getting Akila interested in drawing”. Ist was signed Kumar. “My grandfather drew this. He was an art teacher,” said Akila with a smile.  Mary had drawn a picture of a girl climbing a ladder to touch the moon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/where-the-sun-wears-glasses/article33245570.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||All thanks to tech||Before going any further, I want to make something clear: I love technology. It’s the best thing in the world. I wouldn’t give up Fortnite, Alexa and cat memes for anything. Or the fact that I can listen to the latest Lil Nas X song as soon as it drops (have you heard ‘Holiday’ yet?), and that, if your parents are in a good mood or tired or on a work call, you can have extra cheesy pizza with a cheese-burst crust delivered to your door in 30 minutes. Technology makes all this possible. But, technology can be a downer too. Especially now, thanks to this pesky pandemic. When you have online school, it’s not just online classes, but online classwork, online homework, online homework reminders and, ugh, online PTMs! There’s nothing you do (and nothing you don’t do) that escapes the all-seeing eyes of grownups. Then and now Like before, I could totally space out in Chemistry class and no one knew any better. But now, if I’m not paying attention, my teacher doesn’t find out, but my parents do. They’re always walking by the room and asking questions like ‘What’s the atomic number of Beryllium?’ Or ‘Who was the last Mughal to rule India?’ Thank god, parents aren’t allowed inside real school. Before, I could come home and say ‘No homework today. It’s a free day’. Now, all my homework assignments go right into my folks’ email inbox. And they get reminders about when it is due and overdue. Plus, all my graded homework sheets go right to them with the feedback. Is there no such thing as privacy anymore? Thanks to technology, teacher-student confidentiality has been destroyed. Last week, my physics teacher sent a screenshot of my homework, which I’d written in a document called Annoying Physics Homework, to my parents. That was meant to be a private conversation between the two of us. Thanks teach. NOT. Then there’s online PTMs. Before, my parents went for PTMs without me. I wasn’t there to listen to all the things my teachers were saying. Plus, if it was really bad stuff, my parents would usually cool down by the time they reached home. Now? Now, I get hauled into the room every time a teacher says something. ‘Did you fall asleep during Algebra?’ ‘Why aren’t you writing in your COVID-19 feelings journal?’ ‘Why haven’t you gone for online swimming class?’ If you had to do the breaststroke on a cold floor at 7:30 a.m., you’d bunk that class too. Anyway, my punishment for all my crimes? An extra class of online swimming every week. I can’t wait to go back to school, and fall asleep with my eyes closed, and pretend to have lost my homework and get a normal punishment. I’m done with online school!  Technology can be a downer too. Especially now, thanks to this pesky pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/all-thanks-to-tech/article33245612.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Sailing on the big blue||Who I am: I am the Indian Navy, the naval branch of the Indian Armed Forces.  My Supreme Commander: The President of India.  My beginnings: My story began in 1612 when Captain Thomas Best of the English East India Company (EEIC) was defeated by the Portuguese, in the Battle of Swally. The EEIC decided it needed a naval force to protect its interest. It built a port in Surat, Gujarat.  Change of name: Till 1830, I was known as the colonial navy. Later, I was named His Majesty’s Navy. In 1934, my name was changed to the Royal Indian Navy. When India became a Republic in 1950, I was once again renamed. This time, as the Indian Navy.  My job: To safeguard the nation’s maritime borders.  My strength: As of 2019, I have 67,252 active and 55,000 reserve personnel in service. I have a fleet of 300 ships and boats and 300 aircraft.  My specialities: All my in-service ships and naval bases have a prefix INS, which stands for Indian Naval Ship or Indian Naval Station. My sail boats are prefixed with INSV — Indian Naval Sailing Vessel.  My pride: INS Vikramaditya. It means ‘brave as the Sun’. It is a modified Kiev-class aircraft carrier and is my flagship. It entered my service in 2013.  My secret weapons: As of October, this year, my sub-surface fleet includes one nuclear-powered attack submarine, two ballistic submarines and 15 conventionally-powered attack submarines.  My adventures: My ships go on many expeditions. For example, on January 23, 2003, INS Tarangini began circumnavigating the world to foster good relations with various other nations. She came back to India May 2004, after having visited 36 ports in 18 nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sailing-on-the-big-blue/article33245636.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Spectacular underwater world||The oceans form a mysterious, watery world. Imagine entering one of them. After swimming by fishes, turtles, jellyfish, you come across the most spectacular of its inmates: the corals. In multifarious shades of yellow, red, green and brown, they have been aptly named to match their unusual shapes — Stag Horn Corals, Fan Corals, Brain Corals, even Dead Man’s Fingers Corals…. Their shades come from microscopic algae called zooxanthellae that live inside the thousands of polyps that make up the coral colonies. The zooxanthellae need sunlight for photosynthesis and water between 23° and 25° Celsius. Therefore, corals can survive only upto the depth that sunlight penetrates. In warmer waters, you will only see bleached coral, in which the zooxanthellae have been expelled. Since the polyps can’t live without them, the coral is dead. Ocean diaries At night, the coral polyps emerge from their skeleton homes of calcium carbonate and wave their miniscule tentacles to draw food from the water. This gives an illusion of the corals being covered with velvety fur. You are sure to find the coral colonies pulsating with other kinds of marine life that shelter in its folds and labyrinths: giant clams, crabs, sea anemones, sea squirts, lobsters, turtles, sea horses and more. On the fourth or fifth night after full moon, you may even witness the birth of new corals. The waters transform into a soup of rainbow colours, with thousands of brightly hued specs rising upwards: the coral eggs. When they hatch, the baby polyps called planulas swim around till they find a suitable surface to attach themselves to — a rock or even a sunken ship — and soon turn into polyps that start drawing calcium carbonate from the sea water, giving rise to a new coral colony.  Often, coral colonies get overcrowded and may wage a silent and merciless war with each other. The polyps shoot out long filaments from their mouths that simply digest their competitors. This is Nature’s way of controlling the excess population. Before you know it, the night has come to an end. At the crack of dawn, you see the polyps withdrawing their filaments. The only signs of them having raged a cold-blooded war are dead coral patches.  Zooxanthellae live inside the thousands of polyps that make up the coral colonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/spectacular-underwater-world/article33245618.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Salute our heroes||Rohan thinks his mom is a bit like a a superhero — she flies in to save the day, she loops and swoops between the clouds, she even jumps off planes wearing parachutes! But her job demands that she keep moving from place to place, and Rohan doesn’t want to move again. Not this time. Can he find a way to stay? Nikky’s sister is in the navy. When her ship is in port, she and Nikky get to do lots of fun things together. Nikky would like to spend more time with his sister, and he doesn’t want her to leave, but he knows that, eventually, her sailing orders will arrive... Beena’s dad is in the Indian army. So, when duty calls, he’s got to get going at once. Beena knows her dad’s job is important, but her birthday is coming up. She really, really wants her dad to be at home to celebrate with her. Will he be able to make it back in time?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/salute-our-heroes/article33245632.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Living in the past||Across  1 Roman city destroyed by a volcano (7) 4 __ Chi Minh, Vietnamese leader (2) 5 Another name for the river Sindhu (5) 6 There's a Great Wall in this country (5) 9 Satakarni I was a ruler of this dynasty (10) 12 Ancient Egypt flourished on the banks of this river (4) 14 ____ Mantar: Ancient astronomical observatory (6) 17 Number of rocks used in a monolithic structure (3) 18 The ___ Temple at Konark was built by the Gangas (3) 19 Kolar has India's oldest ____ mine (4)  Down  1 Ancient Tamil dynasty (6) 2 Chandragupta founded this dynasty (6) 3 Ancient South American civilisation (4) 4 Attila the ___, enemy of the Roman empire (3) 7 The Age after the Bronze Age (4) 8 Joan of ___, French peasant girl (3) 9 Petra is carved out of ____stone (4) 10 Palace of winds: ___ Mahal (4) 11 The Taj Mahal is in this city (4) 13 The Sphinx has the body of a ____ (4) 15 Ancient Chinese philosophy (3) 16 Shah Jahan build the ___ Fort (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/living-in-the-past/article33245595.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||If both butterflies and birds have wings, why is a butterfly an insect while a bird isn’t?  There are many differences between them though both have wings. Butterflies don’t have beaks, feathers, talons or even an internal skeleton like birds. Birds don’t have antennae or six legs like butterflies. An insect often has six legs, a body divided into three main parts, antennae, and wings. Since a butterfly has all these features, it qualifies as an insect while a bird doesn’t.  How do fireflies glow in the dark?  The fancy word for the firefly’s ‘glow power’ is ‘bioluminescence’. The light is produced by a chemical reaction between a protein called luciferase, a pigment called luciferin, and oxygen. The result is a little bright light. Did you know that bioluminescence is not unique to fireflies? Quite a few animals, especially marine animals, like jellyfish, emit light too. What is unique about fireflies is their ability to turn their lights on and off, as they wish. How to ask a curious question 1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article33245582.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article33245578.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Where the sun wears glasses||Mary was the art teacher for Std II A. That day, she was teaching her students to draw scenery. Akila yawned. She disliked drawing. Mary noticed some students had gathered around Tina and were laughing at her drawing of a sun wearing sunglasses and trees with ice creams on them. Mary asked Tina to draw exactly the way she had taught. “Buy a separate notebook, in which you can draw as you like,” said Mary. “I do have a notebook for my drawings, Miss,” said Tina and took out a small notebook from her bag. Going through it, Mary saw that Tina had drawn a rainbow with two girls sitting on it. Mary had also done similar drawings when she was Tina’s age. Mary’s second-grade art teacher, Kumar sir, had encouraged her to draw as she wished in the art class. He had once asked his students to draw their dreams, and Mary had drawn a picture of a girl climbing a ladder to touch the moon. Kumar sir had praised her drawing. In an inter-school drawing competition, which Mary and her classmates took part in, the topic given to them was ‘Scenery’. Unexpected Later, when the results were announced, none of the students from Mary’s school had won any prize. All the drawings were displayed in the city town hall. Mary’s mother had been shocked to see her daughter’s drawing: the hills had pink and yellow flowers. Standing on top were two girls sharing ice cream with a smiling sun. “Look at this scenery that won the first prize! The hills are coloured brown. The sun doesn’t have a smiling face. There is a river and a house. You should have drawn like this!” her mother had said. The drawings of the other students were also unique. Kumar sir tried to explain to the angry parents that the children had displayed their creativity through their drawings. But the parents criticised his method of teaching. After a month, Kumar sir had resigned. All his students missed him, especially Mary. She now wondered where Kumar sir was. A week later, during art class, Mary asked Tina if she drew anything else in her notebook. “No, Miss! My friends say that my drawings are not good. So I have stopped drawing,” said Tina. Mary was shocked. Then she had an idea. She told her students to draw their dreams. Her students looked puzzled. “What do you dream of, Akila?” asked Mary. “Once, I dreamt that I was in Chocolate Land,” said Akila. “Then draw that,” said Mary. Akila was excited and so were the other students. Tina drew her dream of flying across the night sky and painting all the stars in gold. Mary smiled as she saw her students’ imagination soar. “Now, for your homework: If you had a magic wand, what would you use it for? That is what you have to draw,” said Mary. She also advised Tina to keep drawing in her notebook. The following week, the students submitted their homework. Akila handed over a separate sheet with a drawing showing an elderly man using his wand to make it rain on fields and dried-up river beds. A note below read: “Thank you for getting Akila interested in drawing”. Ist was signed Kumar. “My grandfather drew this. He was an art teacher,” said Akila with a smile.  Mary had drawn a picture of a girl climbing a ladder to touch the moon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/where-the-sun-wears-glasses/article33245627.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Waking up to new tunes||Every Tuesday night at 8 p.m., a handful of people from India and around the world, get ready to immerse themselves into lullabies that carry with them the tenderness of time, the invisible embrace of voices gone by, and the gentle power of words asserting the beauty of language. The ‘Sing a Lullaby’ workshop — an ambitious 52 weeks for 52 lullabies — organised by Chennai-based singer-musician Vedanth Bharadwaj and Bengaluru-based singer, Gurupriya Atreya, comes at a time when the world is grappling with uncertainty and fear, bringing a cosy corner of warmth under the blanket of hope. “We have actually been discussing this idea — of an album of lullabies — since 2014, when my wife and I were about to have our first child. And then again in 2016, when Gurupriya had her first child. Each time, we would go one step further and then it would inevitably stop,” says Vedanth. “In fact,” adds Gurupriya, “in 2018, there was another revival when NIMHANS roped us in for a project for their post-partum department, but the project was eventually scrapped due to budget issues.” Vedanth and Gurupriya, who have been collaborating on several concerts since 2007, finally found the right place and time for the idea to become a reality. “When procrastination became legal in 2020,” laughs Vedanth, “we thought, okay, now is the time.” Overwhelming response The posters and emails went out in October for a workshop that is open to all and follows the pay-as-you-can model, and within a week, they had over 200 registrations. “Two hundred and twenty two emails,” says Gurupriya. “It was overwhelming and heartening that so many were interested. And the stories they shared — one new mother, with a 40-day-old baby, said that everyone in her house seemed to have made a connection with the baby except her and she hoped, by learning lullabies and singing to her baby, she would find her connection too.” On the first day of the workshop, 170 people turned up on Zoom and YouTube together, where the session is active for 24 hours to accommodate those from different time zones. Like Menga Asaridis-Taian, a retired Kindergarten teacher from Switzerland, who hasn’t missed a session till now. “Since the pandemic has been keeping us mostly at home, we have been actively using Zoom in order to teach or meet people or sing! That’s how I found the idea of singing lullabies a wonderful chance to widen my horizon. I am enjoying not only the singing, but also the atmosphere of the workshop — there is no stress, there is kindness and there is comfort,” she says. For Anand Kurien, father to a five-year-old and a teacher with the rare combination of teaching physics and music at Good Earth School in Chennai, this workshop was a chance to expand his repertoire of songs. “The different genres of music, the variety of languages, and even just the experience of watching how one teaches music online… it’s invaluable for any music teacher. But even though I began with a specific reason, I have come to enjoy the sense of community this workshop brings. There is one participant who actually falls asleep listening to the songs! It’s wonderful. I think if you attend once, you will keep coming back for more.” But is the workshop only for those who can hold a tune? Surely not, as that’s the thing about lullabies — you sing not for the perfection of the melody or words, but for the promise of accessing something ancient, a magic that we fully believe at the end of a long day, when all we want is for the child to fall asleep. “I still remember my out-of-tune grandmother’s lullaby singing,” says Radha Nagesh, counsellor, Viveka Counselling Centre, Bengaluru. “Now I sing for my grand-daughter, and am usually surprised because it is almost like she recognises it. It makes one wonder, what is that magic in a lullaby, the memory of which is etched over generations and longs to be passed on? Incidentally, my 80-year-old mother, Shanta Iyer, is also attending this workshop!” It is this human connection that the workshop ultimately creates, the ones we cannot explain but can sing, when for a brief moment in time, a language and a tune break free from polarised silos and wrap themselves around our tongues. “At the end of this endeavour, we hope to have four albums with 13 songs each,” says Vedanth. “But for now, it is about showing up every week, and realising that this is more than just the two of us; it now has an entire community behind it.” The independent writer is based in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/waking-up-to-new-tunes/article33245227.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s advantage Carnatic music||A few months ago, this year’s Margazhi season was under threat of a washout by a raging pandemic. In the face of a precarious struggle to stay alive, classical music was the last thing on people’s minds. But today, the festival appears to have not only survived the existential crisis but has possibly become bigger by embracing the digital space. By going virtual, Margazhi 2020-21 has not only gone global, it is also on the threshold of the single biggest process of democratisation since the annual festival began nine decades ago. With concerts open to audiences across the world, it is highly likely this season will end up as the most attended one. When the Federation of City Sabhas met in early August to take stock and decide how best to ensure the legacy of Margazhi remained uninterrupted, all they had in mind was a few days of free digital concerts on YouTube. However, buoyed by the resilience of the musicians and the enthusiasm of the rasikas who wanted a full-fledged season, they decided to go all out within the confines of the pandemic protocol. The result is a ‘Yours Truly Margazhi’ that promises to be one of the most intense digital classical music festival : 120 events, 500 artistes, performing back-to-back for 30 days. That is about 150-plus hours of music and dance at one stretch. Add to this the Music Academy and Kalakshetra concerts and independent organisations such as MadRasana, First Edition Arts, Arkay Convention Centre (ACC) and others, and the scale gets truly big. Plus, a digital Season means it’s not open only to Chennai’s sabhas but also to organisations from Mumbai, Bengaluru and even the U.S. A Season that was always big even by global standards, now seems mammoth. Reaching people directly What makes this Season truly remarkable, however, is that for the first time, the entry barriers are broken. The music is going directly to people — anybody, anywhere can hear it. Everybody gets a front-row seat. Over the years, the conservative veneer of the city’s sabhas, concert halls and sometimes even the musicians; the music’s apparent socio-cultural exclusivity; and even its stereotyping in popular culture created both real and perceived barriers to Carnatic music. The notion that one needs technical training to enjoy it and that one might feel intimidated by an informed and older audience also kept people away. The younger generation found the setting dated and forbidding and found both establishment and audiences condescending. Going digital has meant an effectual blurring of boundaries not just for audiences but for musicians too, whether in terms of venues or time slots. “The digital space has loosened some of the old rigidities and hierarchies and one cannot help but notice the winds of change,” says Devina Dutt of First Edition Arts. Other impacts are equally significant. The concerts are shorter. Interestingly, instead of using the unlimited time offered by the Internet to leisurely explore a raga in the Hindustani style, organisers and performers have chosen to compress the traditional format. However, not having to stretch the concert to three hours has also meant that smart singers are using the opportunity to innovate and make sessions more enjoyable. Second, the multiple camera angles and movements, the close-ups and high-resolution visuals, and aesthetic production values make the concerts an intimate experience. Most importantly, one can watch it at one’s convenience in a setting that one chooses. You don’t have to satisfy yourself with a backrow seat in an ill-lit hall with bad acoustics but can watch it on a plush home theatre or catch it while commuting to work. Third, necessity has made the technology sleeker and more experiential. Technicians from the movie and recording industries, as well as state-of-the-art equipment have been roped in to raise production values. The biggest gainer in all this is Carnatic music itself. From its traditional catchment of a few thousand people in Chennai, it is now open to tens of thousands of music lovers across India and the world. As it happens with every form of music and art, easy access and accidental exposure can also lead to people from diverse cultures and demographics crossing over. Who knows, Margazhi may find new attendees in, say, the Solomon Islands. The response from music lovers so far has been extremely good, according to both the Federation and other stakeholders. “The ticket sales have been very encouraging,” says Harishankar Krishnaswamy, secretary, Federation of City Sabhas, while according to MadRasana’s Mahesh Venkateswaran, “It’s been much more than our initial estimates”. Music Academy’s ‘main’ events will also be ticketed. Not giving free content is a breakthrough the sector very badly needed. Larger global audiences and increasing cross-over numbers can indeed bring in more money. Challenging task Putting together a digital season isn’t easy. In fact, the Federation has undertaken a mammoth task. Filming four programmes a day with four cameras across three venues in a fortnight is challenging both creatively and logistically. Everything is on an unprecedented scale: coordination of artistes, surfeit of footage, its storage and post-production work. MadRasana Virtual Festival will have six top musicians, while FEA is launching a year-long ‘Now Hear Us’ festival in partnership with Indian Oil. MadRasana’s Mahesh talks of how they have tried to fine-tune the experience. “The look and feel will be different for each concert, all shot outdoors. The artistes have also come up with interesting content to suit the digital age .” Interestingly, the musicians have taken to the digital transformation rather well. “It’s not been a problem although initially one has to get used to performing without the audience,” says vocalist Saketharaman. The big question remains. Is the digital outreach just a stopgap move to tide over the pandemic or will it remain a parallel stream that can expand the audience and economics? The critical challenges Carnatic music faces are stagnant and limited patronage, inability to reach out to rasikas outside its strongholds, and its inability to attract crossover audiences. Examples such as the Digital Concert Hall of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, Jazz at Lincoln Centre, LA Philharmonic, MadRasana, and FEA have demonstrated that sleek, curated content can indeed bring in larger, ticket-buying audiences. “Virtual platform as a parallel way to experience and consume music is here to stay. The opportunity is immense, and I hope it continues,” says Mahesh. “We will meet after the season and analyse the learnings. It certainly looks promising,” says Harishankar. As the Season moves out of the darkened auditorium to homes and cafes, Devina has a deeper, transformational optimism: “We have been forced to confront the idea that probably this notion of space and presentation for a complex art form, the particular sameness of setting in a closed hall with static listeners and a large display of corporate logos is not the only possibility.”  The writer is a journalist-turned-UN official-turned-columnist   based in Travancore.   Is the digital outreach just a stopgap move to tide over the pandemic or will it remain a parallel stream that can expand the audience and economics?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/its-advantage-carnatic-music/article33245225.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Stringing together rare concepts||Last December, A. Kanyakumari began a thematic series to showcase Tyagaraja’s ekaika ragas – those with only one kriti. She began the series with ‘E daari sancarintura’ in raga Srutiranjani. The veteran violinist had envisioned it as a three-week project for the 2019 music season, but the overwhelming response has made her continue. So far, 49 ragas and kritis have been premièred, one each Friday. “I wanted to take up a theme not dealt with earlier. Tyagaraja’s appeal lies in his compositions with lyrics that are simple and comprehensible ,” she says. That instrumental music is not given its due in the present day was also an issue she wished to address. “Nadam comes from instruments. The tambura too is used for that. Lyrics can be faithfully replicated by instruments while conveying the appropriate bhava. Instrumental music should be on a par with vocal and instrumentalists should be given their proper due,” she says. For beginners Besides being a reputed violinist, Kanyakumari is a renowned teacher who has been consistently grooming talented youngsters. Her rationale in the selection of the pieces, and the order of presentation, reflects this understanding of various age groups, levels of musical competence, and attention span. “I began the series with catchy ragas to pique interest. One cannot exclusively present rare songs or only vilamba kala kritis. If we force beginners to learn larger chowka kala kritis, they will get disheartened and lose interest in the music itself. There is immense variety in Tyagaraja’s compositions. ‘Ramincuvarevarura’ in Suposhini, for example, is composed in a Western style, in a fast tempo, but with a simple structure that allows even beginners to learn it. This type of kriti can also be sung in a group. Then there are heavier and slower kritis. It is important to bring in variety by playing popular pieces, rare songs and by playing in fast and slow tempos to cater to every type of learner and enthusiast,” she says. Before launching the project, she went through the vast repository of Tyagaraja’s compositions, looking for ekaika ragas, and has gathered 134 so far. While she knew some of them already, she had to learn others. For that, she listened to recordings of yesteryear stalwarts and, wherever possible, of multiple artistes. She says that most of the composer’s pieces are easily comprehensible, especially since Telugu is the violinist’s mother-tongue. She sang each freshly learnt piece several times, adapting it to her style, and setting some sangatis if they seemed appropriate, all the while keeping in mind the sanctity of the lyrics and adaptability for both vocal and instrumental music. Only then did she attempt to play it.  Many solitary songs She has been assisted significantly in this endeavour by her disciples Vittal Rangan, Sayee Rakshith and Mallajosyula Srikanth who, besides playing alongside, have also helped produce the finished audio. Others disciples like Mudicondan Ramesh, Embar Kannan, L. Ramakrishnan and Shilpa Venkatesh also lent support. “Contrary to what might be assumed, only single pieces are available even in some common and popular ragas such as Abheri, Bahudari, Brindavana Saranga and Hemavati,” says Kanyakumari. There are other ragas that are so rare that no other composer has set pieces in them — Raamamanohari (to be distinguished from Ramaamanohari, a raganga ragam in the nomenclature followed by the Muthuswami Dikshitar parampara), Gundakriya, and even Suposhini are among them. Kanyakumari points out how Tyagaraja brings out the raga essence and bhavam even in these kritis. She also noticed the appropriateness between the ragas selected by the composer and the lyrics of the kriti. “Of course, how a musician renders the piece is a key part of conveying the message the composer wants to. For instance, in ‘Nenendu Vetukudura’, Tyagaraja laments about where he can search for Rama’s idols that have been thrown away. This emotion cannot be conveyed if played in a fast or aggressive manner, it should be rendered with the required pathos.” Kanyakumari hopes to continue the series as long as she can. “I will be releasing notations for all the songs to make it easier for students to learn. I hope it serves as a resource through which more songs and other facts about Tyagaraja can be learned,” she says.  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   I began with catchy ragas to pique interest. One cannot exclusively present rare songs or only vilamba kala kritis. If we persuade beginners to learn larger chowka kala kritis, they will get disheartened and lose interest in the music itself||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/stringing-together-rare-concepts/article33245240.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Echoes from the jungle||Songs of alienation, displacement and conflict permeate through the music album, ‘Our Forest Lives,’ produced by a group of Adivasi youth in Gudalur, the Nilgiris. The ten tracks, which were released to highlight the struggles of Adivasis, also express their hope for a better future through reclaiming rights to land, forest and traditional livelihoods. “Oh rise bravely! It’s time we raised our voice to make history,” sings K. Lakshmi, a member of the Paniya tribal community in Gudalur, one of the main vocalists on a number of songs in the album. “What we are trying to achieve through the launch of this album, and also a story book, Our Forest Dreams is to tell the tale of Adivasis in the Nilgiris, about how we were alienated from our land and forests by the government, and also how we can reclaim them, so that we don't lose touch with our culture and traditions, which are linked to the forests around us,” said Lakshmi, who is also a poet and a musician. The album was created and produced by the Nilgiris Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (NPVTG) Federation, which brings together Adivasi leaders from eight communities under a single umbrella, and helps them in reclaiming rights to land, forests and resources. Sobha Madhan, the district co-ordinator for the NPVTG, who was one of the key creative leads for the production of the music album, ‘Our Forest Lives’ and the book Our Forest Dreams said that the creative projects seek to “transmit the intergenerational story of Adivasi resilience to the next generation. They also feature technical information about the Forest Rights Act, communicated in a simple manner, while sharing messages about gender equity and caring for nature.” About Adivasi culture The ten tracks on the album feature videos with English translations to the Tamil lyrics. The album has songs about the wealth of the forests ( Kaadu nam kaadu ), land rights ( Nila urimai ), the Forest Rights Act ( Vana Urimai sattam ) and a song about Adivasi political awareness ( Arasiyal adigaram ). “There are also songs about Adivasi culture, our children and our traditional ways of life,” said Sobha. Eugene Soreng, from ‘Adivasi Drishyam’ which co-produced the event to launch the book and the music album, said that the projects exemplified how Adivasi communities traditionally documented experiences. “Our communities, across India, and worldwide, pass down the knowledge through our ancestors and our music,” said Soreng.  The fully-illustrated book, Our Forest Dreams , which was released alongside the album after being translated into five different languages, tells a story of a young woman, Medhi, who has a waking dream of an untouched forest. She dreams of a time when the Adivasi communities living in Gudalur and Pandalur live in peace and harmony with the environment before the arrival of the police, the forest department, encroachers, settlers and corporations running the large tea estates in the region. Medhi discusses her dream with her grandmother, Ajji, who then goes on to tell her the story of how the Gudalur landscape has changed since the arrival of the British and right through post-Independence India. Using stories of the communities’ links with the forests, Ajji details the marginalisation of primitive tribal groups in the region for more than a hundred years. Gam Shimray, general secretary of the Asian Indigenous People’s Pact (AIPP), said that the songs and the book show the bravery of Adivasi youth. “Like a tree, we need to grow strong for our communities and our families and be rooted to the land,” said Shimray. He added that Adivasi communities can only make sense of the present and chart a course for the future by learning, from their ancestors, the history and the struggles that have led to the present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/echoes-from-the-jungle/article33245246.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A promise made to the guru||“What can be more precious for a musician than to receive an award in the name of his own guru,” said Mannur Rajakumaranunni when Guruvayur Devaswom chose him for the Sree Guruvayurappan Chembai Smaraka Purasakaram, 2020. The octogenarian received the award on November 24, after which he led a small team of musicians in the rendition of the Pancharatnakirtanam. The two-week long annual Chembai Music Festival, that usually sees around 3000 musicians from across the country participating, could not be held this year due to the pandemic. Known for his virtuosity as a vocalist, music teacher and music director, Rajakumaranunni was initiated into music by his mother Chinnamani Nethiar and was later trained by Vellinezhy Subramania Bhagavathar. Under Desamangalam Venkiteswara Bhagavathar’s tutelage, he turned into an acclaimed vainika too. But what made him more popular was the series of lecture-demonstrations on music, both vocal and veena, that were broadcast by Akashvani. They proved his skills in explaining the nuances of Carnatic music to the uninitiated in an intelligible way. He has performed concerts both in India and abroad. Even at this age, his voice is pleasing and the technique, masterly. He came into cinema in 1975, when lyricist and director Sreekumaran Thampi invited him to sing the Ashtapadi, ‘Radhika Krishna’ for the film, Mohiniyattam . The song, directed by maestro G. Devarajan, catapulted him into mainstream film music. The song, ‘Allavin Thirusabayil’, rendered by him in the film Jayikkanayi Janichavan fetched him recognition. As a music director, his songs for the TV films Nangemakutty, Uchaveil, Sthree, Vararuchi and Thunchathu Ezhuthachan were captivating. Along with the late L.P.R. Varma, he played the role of a veena artiste in the serial Swami Ayyappan . Worth mentioning in this connection is his scoring of music for Isavasyopanishad , which was released as a CD. Meeting the master Rajakumaranunni’s meeting with the legendary vocalist Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar was accidental. While at home in Chembai village, Bhagavathar once happened to listen to Rajakumaranunni’s concert on the radio and was impressed. On enquiring, he found that the musician belonged to an illustrious family in Mannur in Palakkad. He also happened to be the son of his friends, the well-known musicians, Ramavarman Thampan and Chinnamani Nethiar. The Chembai Music Festival organised by Guruvayur Devaswom is a continuation of Bhagavathar’s musical legacy. Every year, until his death, the maestro performed on Guruvayur Ekadasi at the temple. A large contingent of musicians, young and old, used to accompany him to Guruvayur. Bhagavathar invited Rajakumaranunni for the next Ekadasi concert. To his surprise, he was allotted 20 minutes as against the five minutes given to upcoming artistes. Bhagavathar was seated in the front row. The first composition the young singer chose was ‘Saphalamakkidenameejanmam’ of poet Muralikrishnan Bhattathiri. Rajakumaranunni had composed it in Saraswathi raga. Bhagavathar praised his musical prowess and made it a point to teach him whenever the two met in Chembai, Guruvayur, Chennai or Palakkad. Rajakumaranunni was also invited to accompany Bhagavathar, who used to introduce him to listeners as his grandson. Obedient disciple Bhagavathar’s last concert was at Poozhikunnu Sree Krishna temple in Ottappalam in 1974. On that day, he asked Rajakumaranunni to offer him dakshina and then blessed him by placing both hands on his head. Bhagavathar also insisted that he attend the Ekadasi festival every year. The obedient disciple has been following the guru’s advice to this day. This year, Rajakumaranunni was dismayed when the festival was cancelled. “It was Bhagavathar’s blessings that I was selected for the award; or else I would have broken the promise I made to my guru,” said Rajakumaranunni. A chemistry teacher by profession, Rajakumaranunni retired as principal of the Government Teacher Training Institute in Kumarapuram, Palakkad. In 1995, he received the National Award for Teachers. Among his many awards and encomiums, it’s the title ‘Raga Ratnam’, conferred by Bhagavathar on him, that he treasures the most.  The writer and culture critic   is a trained musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-promise-made-to-the-guru/article33245217.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The show will go on, differently||Veteran violinist N. Rajam said, “Never in my performing life of more than 65 years have I ever seen such a long period of time without concerts.” The world of classical music, Carnatic and Hindustani, may indeed witness irreversible changes in the future; this stagnant phase has shaken up organisers and performers alike. As sitarist Purbayan Chatterji puts it, “We have witnessed history in the making, and a new ecosystem is already in place.” Classical music in any case is already beset with problems. In the North, to enumerate a few, there are vastly inflated artiste fees which made even the model of ticketed concerts unsustainable; and, in an attempt to increase audiences, the issue of corporate sponsors calling the shots on content and opting for the high visibility of only star artistes. A common problem in both North and South has been the shortage of platforms for new talent. This has definitely changed with the pandemic, with many promising artistes getting noticed online. Their presence will impact future festival line-ups. Platform for new talents Says Carnatic flautist Shashank Subramanyam, “I think many newer performers will come up who are easier to deal with and who ask lower fees; artistes with difficult demands may be dropped.” Purbayan adds, “To a large extent, nepotism will end; popularity is today being judged online, it will be more democratic now.” According to Mumbai-based Shashi Vyas, founder of Pancham Nishad, “The future of Hindustani music depends on three factors — finance, content and visibility. Those who desired visibility have made available their music for free. The need for finances will determine if fee structures remain the same while content will remain untouched if artistes don’t feel threatened and make changes.” “A reduction in artiste fees is anticipated,” says Purbayan. “I think the fee will be different for broadcasting rights.” According to Vyas, artiste fees should be reduced as a matter of mutual convenience. “After all, organisers are only the bridge between the artiste and the audience.” Vocalist Manjusha Patil agrees, “For a performer, an audience is more important; fee is secondary.” Monetary issues With the pandemic severely impacting the economy, there is less money available with corporates and state patrons now. As a result, a few organisers may opt out, as ticket sales alone cannot cover concert costs. Says Manjusha, “There will definitely be fewer long, big festivals. Instead of three-day events with 9-12 artistes, there may now be one-day events. There will be a shift to more small baithaks. Performers crave for a live audience; it’s not only about how many people you reach out to.” But Dubai-based Dr. Sathish Kumar of Rajalakshmi Fine Arts, which organises festivals in Coimbatore, Chennai and West Asia, disagrees. “I feel once live festivals resume and when people feel safe, the number of artistes will be the same.” For the Chennai Season, 13 organisers are coming together. One wonders if this collaboration will continue. Young, tech-savvy artistes will be able to make the most of digital platforms. Online shows will probably continue even when physical concerts increase. “Artistes are trying to carve out their own spaces online; each one of us has some pluses, which we are trying to put out,” says Carmatic vocalist Sudha Ragunathan. Given the large number of online concerts, the attention span of listeners has reduced, resulting in concerts of shorter duration, but Manjusha says, “The duration began to be reduced in pre-Corona times; this will be the new norm even for live concerts.” Purbayan points how in the past artistes glorified the fact that they needed time to warm up. “You cannot afford to do this in virtual concerts as listeners will move on.” However, both Dr. Radha Bhaskar of Chennai-based Mudhra Arts and Dr. Sathish think that the duration of Carnatic live concerts will not change. Says Sudha, “Listening online, in chunks, one has a different attention span. In a concert hall, the effect of the same artiste’s performance will be different, so I don’t think the duration will be reduced.” With the audience now spread across the world, with different expectations and knowledge levels, the content and perhaps even the format of presentation may change. Many popular young musicians are presenting their music in a more inclusive way. Physical concerts will also be broadcast; ‘phy-igital’ festivals are already happening such as the recent Pt. Motiram Pt. Maniram Festival in Hyderabad, the Harivallabh Festival to take place in Jalandhar on December 27, and the Kalakshetra festival from December 21. As Purbayan says, “When the art itself is threatened, the norms change; new doors open up.”  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music and musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-show-will-go-on-differently/article33245249.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The first-ever alliance||Sabhas across the city are going all out to help music lovers experience the spirit of Margazhi. Even if you are not able to watch your favourite artistes perform live, you will not miss the Season special concert. The Federation of City Sabhas, a consortium of 13 sabhas in Chennai, joins hands with Kalakendra.com to present, ‘Yours Truly Margazhi’, an online recreation of the globally popular music and dance season. The Federation includes Brahma Gana Sabha, Bharath Kalachar, Hamsadhwani, Indian Fine Arts Society, Kartik Fine Arts, Mylapore Fine Arts Club, Nadasudha, Narada Gana Sabha, Rasika Ranjani Sabha, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha, Sri Rama Baktha Jana Samaj and Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha. From December 15 to January 15, they will host two sessions in the morning (Thiruppavai and lec-dem) followed by three performances in the evening. The festival will be streamed on kalakendra.com. Month-long event Since the Margazhi festival represents the city’s cultural ethos, the federation felt more than ever that it is during such trying times that people need to stay connected to the arts. Given that live performances are not possible, the sabhas decided to come together to help audiences experience the spirit of Margazhi digitally. The line-up includes both music and dance performances and artistes. The month-long event will feature artistes such as Sudha Ragunathan, S. Sowmya, Sanjay Subrahmanyan, Nithyashree Mahadevan, Ranjani-Gayatri, Vishaka Hari, Trichur Brothers, Unnikrishnan, Jayanthi Kumaresh, Kanyakumari, Akkarai Sisters, Embar Kannan, Shobana, Priyadarsini Govind and Dushyanth Sridhar. The concerts will be available on the platform till the end of the season for audiences to watch at their convenience. The digital concert come with contests and interactions with artistes on the sidelines. Tickets are available at https://kalakendra.com/yours-truly- margazhi/ For enquiries and interviews, write to rajesh.aalaap@gmail.com or call 98410 07360.  Naada Inbam will inaugurate its festival on December 10 with Sikkil Gurucharan’s concert at 6.15 p.m. Supported by the Ministry of Culture, the virtual festival, which will be on till January 4, will feature vocal and instrumental concerts of senior and young artistes and lecture demonstrations. The performances are being recorded live at Ragasudha Hall and will be streamed on the Parivadini Music YouTube channel.  MadRasana ’s virtual music festival will be held from December 18 to 23 and will feature six concerts. Each day’s concert (7 p.m.) will be preceded by a nadaswaram recital. The festival, which will open with Sudha Ragunathan’s concert, will feature Kunnakudy Balamuralikrishna, Sandeep Narayan, Akkarai sisters, Ramakrishnan Murthy and Abhishek Raguram. For details log on to madrasana.com  Charsur Arts Foundation in association with In.Live presents its series from December 15 to 31. Vocal and instrumental concerts, lec-dems by young and senior artistes will be live streamed twice a day. The festival begins with Injukkudi Subramaniam’s nadaswaram recital on December 15 at 4 p.m. followed by A.S. Murali’s vocal concert (6.15 p.m.). For tickets, visit http://www.charsur.in.live  Kedaram ’s music festival this year is in memory of veteran violinist Prof. T.N. Krishnan and guru P.S. Narayanaswamy. Art patron Nalli Kuppuswamy Chetti will inaugurate the online event tomorrow at 6 p.m. On till December 8, the concerts will take place at 6.15 p.m. and will be streamed on Parivadini Kedaram’s YouTube channel. The inaugural concert is by A.S. Murali (6 p.m.), and Venkatanagarajan, C.R. Vaidyanathan and and Archana-Aarthi will perform on subsequent days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-first-ever-alliance/article33245221.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The many shades of Madhuvanti||Raga in Indian classical music is a structured being. Its personality is formed by a definite cluster of notes, each of them with a fixed melodic position. The behaviour during its ascent and descent is more or less defined. Given this framework, it can be concluded that Indian raga music has a defined existence, working within a set of prerequisites or parameters. Therefore, one often stumbles upon statements such as classical music is rigid, it has a fixed identity, and so on. The other day, browsing through YouTube, I accidentally revisited one of my favourite songs, ‘Rasm-e-ulfat’ from the film, Dil Ki Rahen (1973, lyrics by Naqsh Lyalpuri) composed by the inimitable Madan Mohan. The song remained with me every waking moment over the next few days. What was it? I began to analyse. Was it Lata Mangeshkar’s rendition? The tune? Or was it the raga? I continued browsing and realised that the composition has attracted many musicians, and YouTube has innumerable renditions of it — from ghazal mehfils and music reality shows to international brass bands to the most recent one by Hindustani vocalist Rahul Deshpande, who sang it as a tribute to Lata for her 92nd birthday. Lingering effect Undoubtedly, it is the rendition and composition that make the song linger. But it is also the edifice on which the magnificent structure is built, which is raga Madhuvanti. Going back to where we began, let’s define Madhuvanti — it belongs to Thodi Thaat and resembles raga Multani. It is an audava-sampoorna raga, which means it employs five notes (in very specific shades) as it ascends and all seven notes as it descends. As per theory, the mood is sringara, of love and romance. Like every other raga, this too has a characteristic combination of swaras, they appear in certain phrases. Having put together all this information, let’s listen to ‘Rasm-e-ulfat’ again. It is faultless, with no digression, no rule flouted, and no foreign note. In other words, it is raga Madhuvanti in its complete self. Now, let’s pick a rendition of Madhuvanti from its own bastion, the khayal. We can juxtapose ‘Tore Gun Gaaon’ by Ustad Rashid Khan with Madan Mohan’s ‘Rasm-e-Ulfat’. The melodic movement of both are more or less the same, they open in the same octave. They are “pure” Madhuvanti, and display similar features. Since both abide by the Madhuvanti theory, the next question that arises is, are they same? I explored more about the raga and unravelled two fine compositions in Kannada: ‘Kanasalli Bandavanaru’ from the film Shruti Seridaga (1987, S. Janaki), and ‘Ninna Roopu Edeya Kalaki’ from Parasangada Gendethimma (1978, S. Janaki). The former – composed by maestro T.G. Lingappa — is a song with catchy phrases, tending towards the higher octave. The latter is a complete surprise from Rajan-Nagendra. Cast in a folk idiom, the song completely underplays the drama whipped up by ‘Kanasalli...’. With restrained sensuousness, Madhuvanti is couched in a fresh narrative, with minor departures in the background score. Ilaiyaraja composed two melodies in Madhuvanti, both distinctive. ‘Enulil Engo’ from the Tamil film, Rosaapoo Ravikkaikkaari (1979), is beautifully rendered by Vani Jayaram. Ilaiyaraja approaches the song in both traditional and modern idioms, the alap in the charanam serving as the separator to its twin interpretations. ‘Ilanjolai Poothadha,’ composed in 1986 for the film Unakavae Vazhgirein comes with an entirely different articulation. Sculpted in the Carnatic style, the classical Madhuvanti dominates the entire song. It is very similar in appearance to ‘Kanasalli,’ and the Hindustani counterpart to this could be ‘Ajahun Aaye’ from the film Saanjh Aur Savera (1964, Mohammed Rafi). Musicologist Deepak Raja, in his essay on Madhuvanti, arrives at an interesting conclusion. He studies recordings of classical musicians like Pt. Jasraj, Ustad Bismillah Khan, Pt. Bhimsen Joshi, Pt. Ravi Shankar, Ustad Rashid Khan and a few others. He recognises that the raga treatment by the senior musicians is different from the younger generation, and he proves this with a technical point. While this is a good point to debate the notion of “structure and identity”, the differences and the sameness have also to be understood beyond the technical. What the technical does to the emotional forms the essence of music. Madan Mohan was often criticised for being an emotional composer. “People often criticise me for being melancholic. But if you don’t understand the pain of human life, you cannot make music,” he said. Thus, even though the rulebook states that Madhuvanti invokes the romantic, for Madan Mohan it summoned sadness. Each of the composers discussed here has seen the raga beyond its formulaic existence, giving it colour and texture from their imagination. Extending the metaphysics of Plato to music, the fundamental theory of forms is the likeness of things and not the sameness. If every song constructs its own universe from an essence that is indivisible, then each of those songs becomes a divisible expression of that essence. All songs in Madhuvanti are thus divisible expressions of that larger essence called Madhuvanti. Sameness, therefore, lies in difference. One song in Madhuvanti can never resemble another. The raga is actually a journey to anuraga, a fusion of the physical and non-physical states. It is time we gave some nuance to definitions.  Each of the composers discussed here has seen the raga beyond its formulaic existence, giving it colour and texture from their imagination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-many-shades-of-madhuvanti/article33245229.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Kalakshetra’s 11-day festival||December Season is not just about performances, it’s also about keeping a tradition alive. Kalakshetra’s annual art festival is an effort in this direction. This year, the institution is organising physical concerts at the Bharata Kalakshetra auditorium, with entry restricted to only 80 people. The performances will also be simultaneously streamed live. Featuring vocal concerts, dance dramas and seminars, the 67th edition of the festival will be inaugurated on December 21, 5.30 p.m. The 11-day event, which will be on till December 31, will begin Kalakshetra’s revival project, ‘Andal Charitram’. One of the highlights of the festival is the presentation of three parts of the institution’s famed Ramayana series, ‘Sabari Moksham’; ‘Choodamani Pradanam’ and ‘Maha Pattabishekam’, on Dec. 28, 30 and 31. Other performances include, ‘Kalyanasaugandhikam,’ a Kathakali presentation on December 22, thematic production ‘Koorma Avatharam,’ (Dec. 23); slide guitar-violin jugalbandi by Debashish Bhattacharya and R. Kumaresh (Dec. 24); vocal concert of Ramakrishnan Murthy (Dec. 25) and Nithyasree Mahadevan (Dec. 27). The dance drama ‘Kannapar Kuravanji’ will be held on December 26 and a flute concert by Rakesh Chaurasia on December 29. The performances from December 22 to 31 will begin at 6 p.m. Also as part of the festival, a two-day seminar, ‘Kala Samprekshana - The Art of Seeing Art’ will be held on December 22 and 23 and will feature a series of lectures and demonstrations. Tickets for viewing at the auditorium and live streaming are available at BookMyShow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kalakshetras-11-day-festival/article33245237.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghantasala Puraskar announced||December 4 marks the birth anniversary of legendary singer and composer Ghantasala Venkateshwar Rao and each year Kalapradarshini, the dance school of Parvathi Ravi Ghantasala, presents the Kalapradarshini Ghantasala Puraskar award to people who serve society through art and social activity. This year, on the the 98th birth anniversary of the musician, the award will be presented to Dr. V. Shanta, director, Adyar Cancer Institute, singer Vani Jairam, veteran dancer Yamini Krishnamurthy and senior violinist K.N. Ram Subramaniam. An online tribute with different artistes performing to the musician’s songs will follow. The event will première online on December 12, 8 p.m. For details call, 96000 78677.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ghantasala-puraskar-announced/article33245234.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Music beyond boundaries||Fifteen-year old Sucheta Satish has won the ‘100 Global Child Prodigy Award’ for singing in most languages during a concert and for the longest live singing by a child. The records were adjudicated by The World Record Academy, based in Miami, US. The Dubai-based Sucheta can sing in 120 languages. She recently launched her second album ‘Ya Habibi’. Sucheta has been trained in both Carnatic and Hindustani music. The GCP award is an initiative to provide children a platform to showcase their talents. The award honours children in different categories such as dance, music, arts, writing, acting, modelling, science, innovation, sports, and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/music-beyond-boundaries/article33245242.ece
04 December 2020||December 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bouquet of Andal’s verses||Narthaki.com will add flavour to this Margazhi with its latest offering, ‘Andal’s Garden’. Forty dancers spanning different Indian classical styles and located around the world will interpret the saint-poet’s pasurams. Starting on the first day of Margazhi (December 15) at 6 a.m., the programme will continue for one month. The dancers will not be attired in the traditional Andal costume. The idea is to make the dancers respond to the verses in their own way and not be confined to the traditional idea of the ways in which Andal has always been portrayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/bouquet-of-andals-verses/article33245244.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nihang Sikh group advances with horses at Singhu border||The Singhu border on Thursday saw intense activity as a group of Nihang Sikhs inched closer to police barricades along with horses in a “show of power”. Members of the group, Budda Dal, who are traditional keepers of horses, said that they came to join the protest with 15 horses and about 40 more were on the way to Delhi. The group had camped right adjacent to the police barricades and cooked their meals right in the middle. The group said that there are several mentions of horses in the holy book of Sikhs – Guru Granth Sahib. Sitting on a horse, Gursimran Singh (18), a resident of Nawa Shehar and a son of a farmer, said he was here to show his support. “The horses, for us, are to show our power. Our gurus used to ride horses... We are not scared of anyone and that is the reason we are here at the front,” said Gurmail Singh, a resident of Barnala, who called himself a “protector”. Protesting farmers also said that the numbers will swell and the agitation will strengthen if the talks continue to remain inconclusive. “We have been here for a week now and we are to stay. That, we think, the government has come to know. As days pass by, more and more people are coming to join and our strength will only increase,” said Angrez Singh (58), a resident of Moga. Rajendra Arya (39), national chief of Bharat Kisan Mazdoor Naujawan Union, said that farmers are disappointed in the government and they are adamant on the demands. “The leaders should not disturb the democratic fabric of the country. The protest is indefinite till the demands are met,” he said. At the protest on Thursday, where several groups played songs on high volume while driving their tractors, a group of Muslim men from Punjab reached and served food. “We have arrived today but other members of the group have been here for a few days. We will stay for as long as the farmers stay,” said Mohammad Furkaan (22). Thursday also witnessed the beginning of street art by students of Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch who wrote quotes by Bhagat Singh on a wall close to the centre stage.  The farmers are disappointed in the government. The leaders should not disturb the democratic fabric of the country. The protest is indefinite till the demands are met Rajendra Arya National chief of Bharat Kisan Mazdoor Naujawan Union||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nihang-sikh-group-advances-with-horses-at-singhu-border/article33244993.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: House panel moves SC over FB plea||The Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony committee on Thursday moved the Supreme Court seeking to intervene in a plea filed by Facebook India vice-president and MD Ajit Mohan challenging the summons issued by the panel for failing to appear before it as witness in connection with the north-east Delhi riots matter. A Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the committee, headed by Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha, and asked it to file the reply in the matter within four weeks. At the outset, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the committee, said that he has prepared written submission which needs to be placed before the Bench. The top court said that it will have to issue notice before hearing the committee to which Mr. Dhavan said that if there is no objection then the Bench may issue notice to the panel. Committee’s intervention Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Mr. Mohan, said that he does not have any objection to hearing of Mr. Dhavan but the legal aspect of the committee’s intervention needs to be looked into. The Bench said that rejoinder if any needs to be filed in two weeks thereafter, and posted the matter for further hearing in third week of January. On October 15, the Centre had told the top court that proceedings of the Peace and Harmony committee is without jurisdiction as the issue pertained to law and order. It had said that “public order and police are not within the domain of the Delhi Legislative Assembly and therefore this proceeding is without jurisdiction. The apex court had said that its September 23 order asking the Assembly’s panel not to take any coercive action against Mr. Mohan, would continue till further orders. Lacks power The plea filed by Mr. Mohan, Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd and Facebook Inc. has contended that the committee lacks power to summon or hold petitioners in breach of its privileges for failing to appear and it was exceeding its constitutional limits. They have challenged the September 10 and 18 notices issued by the committee that sought Mohan’s presence before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots in February and FB’s role in spread of alleged hate speeches. The Delhi Assembly told the top court recently that no coercive action has been taken against Mr. Mohan and he was only summoned by its Peace and Harmony Committee to appear as witness in connection with north-east Delhi riots. Earlier, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi Assembly, had said that Mr. Mohan has been called as a witness only. Mr. Salve had raised question over the jurisdiction of the committee and said that Mr. Mohan is not willing to appear before it. The top court had said that the prima facie issue is regarding the jurisdiction and power of Delhi Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-house-panel-moves-sc-over-fb-plea/article33244988.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riots: SC to hear plea by Assembly panel over FB official summons||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine an intervention application filed by the chairman of the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi Assembly, in connection with its powers to summon Facebook officials to testify as “witnesses” before it on the circumstances which led to the Delhi riots in February. The intervention has come at a time when a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul is about to consider the competency of the Delhi Assembly to constitute such a fact-finding committee. The Bench had also decided to look into the jurisdiction of the committee to summon Facebook officials. Appearing for Facebook and its vice-president Ajit Mohan, who had come to court against the committee’s summons, senior advocate Harish Salve said the intervention application nudges a “lot of issues will rise on the committee’s standing”. Mr. Salve said the application even claims the committee has an “independent existence as a juridical entity”. Mr. Mohan has accused the Assembly of threatening him with “breach of privilege” if he did not appear before the committee and testify. His lawyers said the committee had no authority to compel him to testify. He claimed his right of silence. In the previous hearing, the Centre too had told the Supreme Court that, prima facie, the Delhi Assembly had no jurisdiction to summon Mr. Mohan to testify as the police and public order in the Capital are not within its domain. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for the Assembly, had explained that Mr. Mohan was called as an expert to put forth “constructive suggestions” in order to prevent such incidents from happening due to the indiscriminate use of social media platforms. There was no coercive action intended against Mr. Mohan. The court scheduled a hearing in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-sc-to-hear-plea-by-assembly-panel-over-fb-official-summons/article33245325.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hotel provides shelter to protesters||About 6 km into Haryana from the protest site is a small hotel, which has opened its doors for protesting farmers – especially women – and offered them rooms and a hall for free. Mandeep Khapra (25), owner of Hotel Sudhir in Kundli, said being a farmer’s son, he considers the protesting farmers as his extended family. Mr. Khapra said, “This, I feel, is the least we can do for the old women who have come here. They are all like my mother.” The 20-room hotel has offered two halls and four-five rooms, along with bathrooms and toilets, to the farmers. Mr. Khapra said that it gets cold in the night and the women need to use toilets. “When the farmers came on November 26, we asked them to park their trucks here. Then we saw women were also there. Initially, we asked women to stay in the rooms and eventually, we opened halls for men as well,” he said, adding that about 60-70 people were currently living there and the hotel is arranging for more. Mr. Khapra said that he and his team are also sometimes providing tea and food to the protesters. “We will continue providing them a place to stay till they decide to leave the place,” he said. Jaswant Kaur (65), who is staying at the hotel, said: “The son here has been very considerate. We are not facing any problem,” she said. “We are old but we were prepared for the worst living conditions. At least we can now bathe and use toilets,” said Baldev Kaur (66) from Sangrur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hotel-provides-shelter-to-protesters/article33244991.ece
04 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||No scarcity of food, medicines for protesting farmers||At Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border, small collectives of protesting farmers are providing services to all protesters, who they call ‘ sangat ’. At least three mid-level langar services, a group providing medicines and a gol-gappa vendor selling for free were committed to service on humanitarian grounds. There is no dearth of food at Singhu border and no one will remain empty-stomach during the protest – farmers stand by the statement. From rice, vegetables and chapatis to sweets, fruits and tea, there’s nothing one won’t find at regular intervals. However, apart from the larger langar service being offered by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and smaller kitchens where food is being prepared outside almost every tractor, there are at least three langar services offering food to people. Narpinder Singh (35), one of the many who are cooking for one of the services, said that this is all about devotion and that their religion teaches to serve. “If Prime Minister Narendra Modi comes, we will serve him too. Maximum people should be able to eat,” he said. Dr. Sunny Singh Ahluwalia, an orthopedic from Mohali who was cooking aloo paranthas , said that the reason of this service is to maximise the number of people being fed. “There are some people who hesitate to go to the larger langar service, so there is an option for them to come here and eat,” he said. Dr. Ahluwali – who claimed that his wife has asked him not to return till farmers’ demands are met – said that people are coming out together on humanitarian grounds and there is an endless supply to meet their requirements. “We don’t even know who’s bringing what but milk, water, sugar, vegetables are being delivered. The power of humanity is such that half-an-hour ago, all of us who are cooking together now, did not know each other’s names, but we are together like a family,” he said. At another langar service, Paramjit Singh Pumma showed a truck full of flour and said that all at least 50 people eat here every half-an-hour. He and about 10 others cooking with him served kheer , mix vegetable, and chapatis . “Most factory workers are eating here only,” he said. A few steps ahead, a few men served some Punjabi delicacy and sweets. Apart from first aid and ambulance service by Khalsa Aid and the DSGMC, a group of farmers offered medicines for common diseases. “People here complain of cough, cold, fever and body pain. We are offering medicines,” said Sukhdeep Singh, from Ropar, refusing to share how much have they spent from their pockets. “This is all for a good cause,” he said. Manjeet Singh, a chemist in Punjab, who is the mind behind the set-up, said, “Old people are camping here in the cold. Cold and cough become common,” he said. Ahead on the stretch was 20-year-old Ram Milan from Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, who is a resident of Kundli, serving free gol gappas to kids. More tents have been set up as the crowd swells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-scarcity-of-food-medicines-for-protesting-farmers/article33244992.ece
04 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Nuh women break stereotype, join stir||Breaking all stereotypes the Muslim women from Haryana’s Nuh have also come out in support of the farmers’ agitation holding protests and taking part in the sit-ins at the Delhi-Haryana border. Though their number is not large, the social workers in the region say mere participation of the women in the protests signals the changing mindsets in the community. Working among the women in Nuh, a Muslim dominated district of Haryana, for more than a decade, Sabila Jung, who runs “Jago, Chalo Mahila”, a women awareness organisation, said it was not easy to convince the families with stereotype mindsets to allow their women to come out and protest against the farm laws. “But the change started with the protests against the CAA-NRC when women came out in small numbers to be part of the dharnas across the district. I went on a hunger strike then against the CAA-NRC and the women supported me. Later, the women also distributed food and masks during the lockdown. Though women are reluctant, they understand when things are explained to them,” said Ms. Jung, 35. She claimed that around a dozen men and women from Nuh were also part of the sit-ins at Tikri and Singhu borders for a couple of days. “We will support the agitation till the time the demands of the farmers are not met,” said Ms. Jung. Mubarik Atrena, a social worker, said he along with many women from his family, including his aunt, was part of the protesters from Nuh at Tikri border. “We have been encouraging our women also to protest,” said Mr. Atrena. Jakia, 22, a woman protester, said that she was a daughter of a farmer and it was her duty to support the farmers’ cause. “My family has no objection to it. I also took part in the CAA-NRC protest,” said Jakia, a resident of Sala Heri. She added that women in Nuh were actively taking part in the farmers protest. Mewat RTI Manch co-ordinator Rajuddin Meo said that women also took part in a protest against the farm laws in Nuh on Wednesday and marched from Nuh to Sohna before the male protesters were taken into preventive custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nuh-women-break-stereotype-join-stir/article33244995.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||AQI continues to be ‘very poor’||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida continued to be in the “very poor” category on Thursday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve on Sunday. The Delhi government on Thursday also signed an MoU with Vidhi Centre of Legal Policy for suggesting legal reforms to fight air pollution in the city. “Through this collaboration with Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, we hope to work on the next generation of solutions to further reduce air pollution in Delhi,” said Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDCD). “The air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate for the next two days within the very poor owing to calm wind conditions. The AQI is likely to marginally improve on December 6 due to better ventilation,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 2% on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aqi-continues-to-be-very-poor/article33244986.ece
04 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Farmers’ agitation reaches south Haryana||Around half-a-dozen districts in south Haryana sharing border with Rajasthan and U.P., which had remained unaffected by the farmers’ agitation, have now felt the heat with tens of farmers from Madhya Pradesh reaching Palwal on their way to Delhi on Thursday and local farmers also extending the support to the agitation. As a precautionary measure, the Gurugram police came out with a traffic plan on Thursday to divert the protesters at eight points in the district. The Faridabad police also deployed force in large numbers at its border with Delhi (Badarpur Border) and Palwal (Sikri Border) to try and stop the agitating farmers from entering the national capital. Palwal Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal told The Hindu that around 200 farmers from Madhya Pradesh reached the Haryana-U.P. border on Wednesday night in dozen tractors and trolleys. They were allowed to march towards Delhi after initial attempts by the police to stop them. The farmers were allowed after they assured the authorities not to block the highway and protest at the designated place in Delhi. Mr. Narwal said around 200 farmers from Palwal also set out for Delhi on foot. The Faridabad police said that attempts would be made to stop the farmers from heading towards Delhi without the use of force. The Gurugram police have come out with a traffic plan to put in place diversions at Kapriwas Border, Bilaspur Chowk, Panchgaon Chowk, Manesar Chowk, Kherki Daula Toll Plaza, Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Shankar Chowk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-agitation-reaches-south-haryana/article33244996.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC directs jail officials to shift riot accused to guest house for exams||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the jail authorities to take Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, to a guest house to enable him to study and appear in examinations scheduled from Friday. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri also asked the jail superintendent to permit Mr. Tanha to take studying material with him and also provide him any other teaching material if required. The High Court ordered that Mr. Tanha will be taken to his examination centre at JMI university on December 4, 5 and 7 from the guest house. After the exams are over, he will be brought back to jail. The court also allowed Mr. Tanha to make a phone call to his counsel once a day during his stay Mr. Tanha was arrested on May 19 in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-directs-jail-officials-to-shift-riot-accused-to-guest-house-for-exams/article33244984.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bail plea of man rejected in riots case||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the bail application of a man in a north-east Delhi riots case, saying he was allegedly actively involved in the rioting and can be seen in a video footage holding an iron rod in the violent crowd. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat dismissed the bail application of Rifaqat Ali in the case related to the death of one Amaan due to gunshot injuries during the riots in Jafrabad area. The court said Ali had allegedly forwarded a few hate messages to other persons, but later, deleted them. It said his mobile phone was recovered, seized and sent for expert opinion as also to retrieve the deleted data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bail-plea-of-man-rejected-in-riots-case/article33245324.ece
04 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP protests in support of farmers||The AAP’s tenant wing and street vendor wing on Thursday protested in support of farmers, at ITO and Barapullah flyovers by putting up huge banners. “The BJP government at the Centre is describing the agricultural Bills as beneficial for the farmers, but AAP considers these as anti-farmer and stands with the farmers. AAP demands that the Centre must talk to farmers, look into their issues and withdraw all these three black laws,” the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-protests-in-support-of-farmers/article33244989.ece
