05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||42% of patients between 21 & 40 years||About 42% of those confirmed positive for COVID-19 in India are between the ages of 21-40 years old, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday, for the first time throwing light on the demography of the disease in India. Only 17% of those testing positive were over 60. By comparison, data from the U.S. Centres for Disease Control said 29% of those affected were in the 20-44 age group and 32% were above 60. India recorded 2,904 cases and 75 deaths as on Saturday compared to the 2,79,355 cases and 7,451 deaths in the United States. However, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, who shared the data with the media, did not provide any age-specific analysis on mortality in the country, only saying that most of those who succumbed to the disease were “aged” and also had underlying complications such as the diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Mr. Agarwal added that 9% of those testing positive were below 20 years. The Ministry said the number of new cases recorded nationwide between Friday and Saturday was 601, with 58 critically ill in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. The death toll from the outbreak, according to data from State Health Departments, rose to 103 with Maharashtra reporting the maximum at 32. The most number of active cases were also reported from Maharashtra at 551, followed by Tamil Nadu with 476 and Delhi with 431 of the total 3,196 cases. Quick results As the number of cases continued to rise, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an advisory to start rapid antibody based blood tests in areas reporting clusters and in large migration gatherings or evacuee centres. The results of such tests will be available in 15-30 minutes. The Health Ministry said nearly 30% of the cases were linked to last month’s Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/42-of-patients-between-21-40-years/article31260825.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases rise to 272 in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose to 272 as 43 new cases were detected on Saturday. Of the total 272 cases reported till date, 228 are active cases, 33 were discharged, and 11 people died due to coronavirus, Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender said. However, no deaths were reported on Saturday. Nizamabad Collector C. Narayan Reddy said earlier in the day that one old man belonging to Yellammagutta area in the district headquarters town died of coronavirus ‘ symptoms’ within half an hour of admission to the Government General Hospital. The patient had no travel history. On Saturday, one patient was discharged from Government General and Chest Hospital. Fifteen people who have recovered from the viral infection were discharged from Gandhi Hospital on Friday night and they left for their homes on Saturday morning. Till Saturday evening, officials from the Health department said that they were trying to find how a 55-year-old woman from Shadnagar contracted the infectious disease. She died on Friday, and test result received after her death was positive for coronavirus. Another death of a person from Secunderabad too was recorded on Friday. However, the Health Minister said that there was no community transmission in Telangana. “Currently, all the positive cases detected are of those who participated in Markaz prayers in Delhi or their contacts. The two from Shadnagar and Secunderabad, who died on Friday had contacts with Delhi returnees,” Mr Rajender said. Tests are being conducted on 1,090 people who had participated in the Delhi event. A 1,500 bedded hospital in Gachibowli stadium will be available within two days. The Health Minister said doctors, nurses, para-medical staff were appointed at all quarantine centres. The minister said that the Health department has purchased five lakh N-95 masks and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), 500 ventilators and four lakh testing kits. Samples are being tested in six laboratories round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-rise-to-272-in-telangana/article31261050.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||26 new COVID-19 positive cases reported in State||The State reported 26 more COVID-19 positive cases from several districts during the past 24 hours as of Saturday night. Discharged The tally has now gone up to 190, and several districts reported at least 30 cases. A 24-year-old patient, the first person to test positive from Krishna district, recovered and was discharged from the hospital in Vijayawada in the evening. So far, five patients recovered and one died in the State. Nine new cases were reported in Krishna district and six new cases in the neighbouring Guntur district. Kadapa district reported four new cases while Kurnool district registered three new cases. Similarly, Prakasam district reported two new cases. Anantapur and Chittoor districts reported one case each. Top on the list So far, Nellore and Krishna districts reported 32 cases each, the highest number in the State and they are followed by Guntur (26), Kadapa (23), Prakasam (19), West Godavari (15), Visakhapatnam (15), East Godavari (11), Chittoor (10), Kurnool (4), Anantapur (3). Vizianagaram and Srikakulam reported zero cases. The State Control Room has released the details of areas of the over 90 COVID-19 patients in the State. All the patients are those who attended the Tabhligi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi and areas surrounding their houses had been isolated, said State Nodal Officer Arja Srikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-new-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-state/article31260837.ece
05 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Bhilwara aims to stop spread of virus with ‘all-down curfew’||Determined to snap the chain of COVID-19 transmission, authorities in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara have now imposed an aggressive 11-day-long “all-down curfew” with even essential services being severely curtailed. The textile city, which had emerged as the State’s first hotspot of COVID-19 infection a fortnight ago, appears to have already had a measure of success in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus, with only one positive case detected during the last four days, and 17 of the 27 infected persons having recovered after treatment. The containment efforts, which included an indefinite curfew that was clamped on March 20 even before the nationwide lockdown began, has had some tangible impact. Nine of the 17 patients were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital on Friday, followed by two on Saturday, after multiple tests confirmed their full recovery. “They have been advised home quarantine for 14 days as a precautionary measure,” Bhilwara’s Chief Medical and Health Officer Mushtaq Khan told The Hindu on Saturday. “Even the person detected positive today was asymptomatic and was found in the house-to-house survey,” he said. The infection had initially spread in a private hospital which has since been sealed, and all the cases in Bhilwara were those of the hospital staff, patients and their subsequent contacts. Kiran Kumar (name changed), who worked as a medical ward in-charge at the hospital, said he felt as if he had won a war after his discharge. Doctors’ resolve M.G. Hospital’s Medical Superintendent Arun Gaur said the doctors’ team had resolved to “convert the pain into energy” and decided the treatment regimen for each patient after studying his or her history. “We still have patients in the isolation ward,” said Dr. Gaur. “Their blood tests, X-ray reports and echocardiography depict that they are on the way to recovery... we will overcome this phase,” he said. Bhilwara Collector Rajendra Bhatt said the administration was working on the two fronts of identification of patients and containing the spread of the virus. No person would be allowed to step out of home in the city of 4 lakh people till April 13, with special arrangements having been made to provide essential services at the doorstep, he said. Of the 6,800 people who were home-quarantined, 4,300 have completed the mandatory two-week isolation. The district administration has acquired hotels, hostels and dharamshalas in the town to arrange 1,500 quarantine beds and 14,400 normal beds to meet an emergency situation. While all curfew passes, issued since March 20, had been cancelled and the district’s borders sealed, a 3,000-strong police force, along with the home guards and the State Disaster Response Force personnel, was enforcing the curfew, which started on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhilwara-aims-to-stop-spread-of-virus-with-all-down-curfew/article31261002.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Two deaths in T.N., both with link to Delhi event||Two persons — who had tested positive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and were undergoing treatment in Villupuram and Theni districts — died on Saturday. With this, Tamil Nadu has recorded three deaths due to the pandemic in the last two weeks. A 51-year-old man, a participant in the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin, Delhi, had tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at the Government Villupuram Medical College Hospital. His condition worsened on Friday night. He died at 7.44 a.m. A 53-year-old woman died at the Government Theni Medical College Hospital at 2.25 p.m. She too had developed breathlessness, the Department of Health and Family Welfare confirmed in a statement. The woman’s husband and son had travelled to Delhi. Her husband had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said on Saturday. The State’s first COVID-19 death was on March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-deaths-in-tn-both-with-link-to-delhi-event/article31260919.ece
05 April 2020||Mumbai,||Pandemic drives oncologists to tweak cancer treatments||The COVID-19 outbreak has posed a unique challenge for oncology experts across the country — to balance the higher risk of exposure to the virus on account of the treatments and the risk of progression of cancer in their patients. To tackle this, oncologists are switching patients to less aggressive therapies, postponing surgeries where possible and opting to individualise the treatment approach for each patient. Since February, when the SARS-CoV-2 virus had found its way to India, Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) in Mumbai began decreasing the intensity of chemotherapy in cases where it was possible. “Intensive cancer therapies result in decreased blood count, more immunosuppression and often require blood platelet transfusions,” said medical oncologist Shripad Banavali of TMH. “These patients are thus at high risk of catching the infection,” he noted. Data from China Dr. Banavali, also the director of academics at the centre, said they relied on data from China, which showed a high mortality rate due to COVID-19 in cancer patients on active treatment. “We don’t know if it will affect the cancer outcome in the long run. But we have to look at what is more harmful in the present scenario.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandemic-drives-oncologists-to-tweak-cancer-treatments/article31260827.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||PM chairs meet on COVID-19 readiness||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday directed officials to ensure sufficient availability of all essential medical equipment such as personal protective equipment, masks, gloves and ventilators after reviewing India’s preparedness to deal with COVID-19. Presiding over a meeting of the various empowered groups set up to respond to the pandemic, he took stock of the availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities as well as disease surveillance, testing and critical care training, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a series of tweets. Last Sunday, the government had constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to scale up health care facilities, put the economy back on track and mitigate problems faced by citizens as quickly as possible after the 21-day lockdown, which was imposed on March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-chairs-meet-on-covid-19-readiness/article31260829.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Musicians go live during COVID-19 lockdown||Members of the Oorali band had a packed schedule of performances across the State lined up for them when the COVID-19 outbreak happened. Forced to cancel it all, they have been performing live every night to an audience from across the globe for the past 17 days through their Facebook page. With concerts cancelled, musicians and bands are reaching out to the public, and even gaining newer audience, through online gigs. “When the initial controls of movement came in, we began these online concerts of 1.5 hours each. The aim was not to just entertain, but also to engage with an audience. We play all our songs and we play according to the song requests from people,” says Martin, Oorali’s vocalist. Live session Popular singer Sithara Krishnakumar had to cancel a series of concerts lined up in the U.S. and in South East Asia. With all members of her band Project Malabaricus stuck at their respective homes, they composed Song of Valour , a rousing tribute to the health workers. The music video was stitched together from mobile videos of their respective performances. “Though such programmes are meant to ease the mental stress of the listeners, it equally benefits us artistes too, to interact with people from various places,” says Sithara. Abhishek Gopurathinkal and his bandmate Sujith, of the Kochi band Mr. Ago, now in self-quarantine, have been composing music all day long and performing on their Instagram page. Musician Bijibal and his two children have been performing Malayalam songs of yesteryear, while many upcoming bands have also been doing live sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/musicians-go-live-during-covid-19-lockdown/article31261102.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Mass transport may not resume fully in key cities in April||Mass transport, cinemas, malls, and industries with a large workforce are not likely to be back to normal fully even after the end of the 21-day lockdown in COVID-19 hotspot districts such as Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru where the number of cases has been rising in the last few days. The State government is not likely to grant permission to mass transport providers, cinemas, malls, and industries to operate services/business at least for a couple of weeks in April. An official source in the government confirmed that mass transport system was unlikely to resume operations in places such as Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, and Chickballapur in April. The services of Namma Metro and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses are unlikely to be back to normal in April. Owing to revenue shortfall, the government may consider granting permission to BangaloreOne centres to remain open for a limited hours during the day. This would help residents to pay bills of various service providers. There are 191 BangaloreOne centres in the city. Sources, however, said it was too early to assess the situation now and decisions on lifting of the lockdown in a phased manner would be taken only after April 14. Districts unaffected On the other hand, the State government has planned to ensure near total re-emergence of population in districts free from COVID-19 soon after the end of the lockdown period. Markets, petty business establishments, small-scale industries, handicraft shops, and small hotels would be allowed to operate businesses in COVID-19-free districts, sources said. The government has planned to set up a ministerial team on formulating a plan for a “staggered exit” of lockdown in different cities, districts, and sector-wise industries. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is expected to hold consultations on this issue with Ministers and form the team, sources said. The proposed team is expected to suggest to the government the type of industries that are eligible to reopen after the lockdown period. As a large number of workforce in the State is depending on over six lakh small- and medium-scale industries, the government is expected to grant permission to open industries with a handful of employees, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mass-transport-may-not-resume-fully-in-key-cities-in-april/article31260860.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai Corporation to take up door-to-door verification||Starting Sunday, the Chennai Corporation will carry out door-to-door verification in 10 lakh buildings to identify residents infected with COVID-19, said Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani. Addressing mediapersons on Saturday, Mr. Velumani said that the Corporation would send 16,000 workers to houses to get information from residents. “The Corporation has developed a system to monitor the health of all residents. We request residents to cooperate with the workers and give information on symptoms. The entire city, with 10 lakh buildings, has been divided into 13,100 sectors. Each sector will have 75-100 buildings. The workers will visit all houses in a sector, for three months, to gather information on a regular basis. The workers will get Rs. 15,000 a month and will be provided personal protective equipment,” said Mr. Velumani. The Corporation has made arrangements for accommodation and supply of food for stranded people in 41 relief camps, 38 night shelters and 13 special shelters. “A total of 4,738 stranded persons have received assistance from the Chennai Corporation,” said Mr. Velumani. “Amma Canteens, at 407 locations in Chennai, have supplied 26.32 lakh idlis, 7.27 lakh rice parcels and 15.03 lakh chapattis during the lockdown,” said Mr. Velumani. “The State government has issued orders for the supply of 11.50 lakh masks. Orders have been issued for procurement of six lakh gloves and 1,000 N-95 masks for doctors. A total of 2,000 litres of hand sanitiser, 50,000 litres of disinfectant and 328 tonnes of bleaching powder is being used to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” said Mr. Velumani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16000-workers-to-carry-out-door-to-door-checks/article31260928.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Inspector sets up community kitchen for poor||On March 27, inspector Suman Kumar, while on duty as night checking officer, intercepted hundreds of migrant workers braving the rain while walking to their home towns in the dead of the night. He tried his best to find a shelter for them but could not succeed given the apprehensions related to the novel coronavirus. Since then, the Sarita Vihar resident, who is posted as inspector (investigation) at the local police station, has set up a community kitchen in his own neighbourhood, seeking to ensure that as many as 300 poor people do not go hungry. “Around 1 a.m., while patrolling, I saw hundreds of poor families walking in the rain with small children. I made several calls, knocked on several doors, including those of religious places, but those in charge, understandably, said nothing could be done right away. I could not stop the workers from marching on,” said the officer. That morning eight days ago, the officer made calls to the RWA members in his society — Mrinal Singh, Vijay Kher, Ramprakash and Harish Bhargava — and sought their help. By 8 a.m., a team of three cooks was ready, hand-stoves, wheat flour, vegetables, fruits were arranged. Women in the area joined hands to prepare food and wrap it in paper packets at the community centre in Pocket-C, Sarita Vihar. “I couldn’t help those whom I met that night but, since that morning, we have been routinely providing food to anyone in need. We have distributed food at slum clusters such as Madanpur Khadar, Mohan industrial area, Jasola intersection among others,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inspector-sets-up-community-kitchen-for-poor/article31261004.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Do not attribute motives to Nizamuddin returnees: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has appealed to the people not to attribute motives to the participation of their brethren in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin. In a televised address to the people on Saturday evening, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said it was time to make a collective effort to check the spread of COVID-19 without viewing one another with suspicion as the virus knew no boundaries and faiths. The Chief Minister pointed out that people taking part in any religious event could contract the virus, and their mingling with the masses should not be doubted as having a bad intention. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said several foreigners were among the gathering at Nizamuddin, and people belonging to Andhra Pradesh had contracted the infection there. “To say that the returnees have deliberately spread the virus is unfair,” he said. Spiritual leaders such as Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Matha Amritanandamayi, Paul Dinakaran, and John Wesley had following around the world, and people would converge at the events organised by them. Message of unity “We should send the message of unity and express our resolve to fight coronavirus, which neither differentiates between countries nor individuals of diverse faiths,” he said, emphasising the need to do what the Prime Minister wanted on April 5 – light candles or oil lamps, or flash cellphone torch lights as a mark of solidarity in war against virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-not-attribute-motives-to-nizamuddin-returnees-jagan/article31260835.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Grounding of planes affects IMD’s weather data supply||The grounding of the country’s civilian aircraft has strangled a key source of weather data that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) uses for its forecasts. Officials, however, clarified that India’s annual monsoon forecast system was on track, with the first forecast scheduled to be issued in mid-April. Aircraft relay data about temperature and wind speed in the upper atmosphere to meteorological agencies the world over and this is used in the dynamical models, the ones which are run on super computers and relied on to give weather forecasts three days, or even two weeks in advance. “Inputs from aircraft are important for the dynamical models as they determine the initial conditions for these models,” D.S. Pai, Chief Forecaster, IMD Pune, told The Hindu.  “However, for the monsoon forecast, which is a long-term forecast, this isn’t significantly affected.” Beginning mid-March, India began restricting incoming international flights into the country and by March 24 imposed a total shutdown on domestic air travel as well. Traditional system This year, the IMD will likely rely on its traditional statistical forecast system — the workhorse, developed on the basis of historical data. India had begun to move away from this system and started to rely on its dynamical models as it better captures developing changes in the atmosphere. However, India’s dynamical models are still not as adept as meteorologists want them to be, for warning of a drought or extreme changes in monsoon rainfall. That, and limited data from aircraft as well as a general decline in land-based information because of a shortage of manpower to send observations, are forcing the agency’s hand. “We need multiple observations from weather stations from all parts of the country,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grounding-of-planes-affects-imds-weather-data-supply/article31260841.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Shops selling essentials to shut by 1 p.m.: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that shops selling essential items would stay open only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. from Sunday. He said that all markets should strictly follow the prescribed physical distancing norms and advised against any type of religious congregation. In an official release, Mr. Palaniswami said that the State government held consultations with Christian, Muslim, Hindu, Jain and Sikh religious leaders in various districts. At the State-level, the meeting was chaired by the Chief Secretary to underline the importance of physical distancing. Taking cognisance of how Muslims were being blamed for the spread of COVID-19, the CM underlined that the virus did not discriminate between people on the basis of religion or caste and advised against looking at the problem through the prism of religion. Taking cognisance of how Muslims were being blamed for the spread of COVID-19, the CM underlined that the virus did not discriminate between people on the basis of religion or caste and advised against looking at the problem through the prism of religion. “Infectious diseases such as these can affect anyone. People are advised to treat COVID-19 patients and their families with kindness and love,” said Mr. Palaniswami. The community leaders should co-operate in ensuring that COVID-19 patients or those who had come in contact with them are isolated in their homes or in government-identified centres under the supervision of the government, he added. Private hospitals Mr. Palaniswami said that he had instructed district collectors to ensure the reopening of private hospitals. “Private hospitals have been advised to treat COVID-19 patients without discrimination and utmost care. They will also make vehicles available to bring patients,” he said, adding that select private hospitals had been identified to treat COVID-19 patients. The notified private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment would be allowed to take in patients who wished to get treated in private facilities. He further said that those who tested negative should be immediately sent home or to isolation facilities. The Chief Minister also announced that COVID-19 patients and families who may be suffering mental health issues due to self-isolation would be given access to psychologists via mobile applications. “The daily needs of isolated families will be taken care of by the State government and essentials will be delivered to their homes,” he said. Also, isolation wards could be created in schools and colleges owned and run by religious community leaders. He said that NGO workers had been recruited to assist in providing essential products to senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shops-selling-essentials-to-shut-by-1-pm-cm/article31260917.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Migration corridors may change post lockdown||The pattern and trend of jobseekers migrating to West Asia and students going abroad for higher studies will undergo drastic changes after the COVID-19 lockdown period. Health-care professionals will prosper as the demand for doctors, paramedics and nursing personnel will go up as health care will get more focus in all countries in the wake of the pandemic that has hit all sectors, including medical and wellness tourism. Shift visible The shift would be visible in many sectors and the health sector would be the most sought-after in West Asian and European countries which were badly hit by COVID-19, sources in the Non-Resident Keralties’ Affairs (NoRKA) said. At present, 80% of the five million Non-Resident Keralties (NoRK) in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries are blue-collared. Age is also going to be a major factor as youngsters would be in demand among the recruiters, the official said. Automation, nationalisation, slump in economy and dipping price of crude oil are going to be the multiple worries for jobseekers and Kerala economy, sources said. Policy makers will have to look into digitally enabled working and studying platform to ensure that things move on as China did in Wuhan. S. Irudayarajan, Professor, Centre for Development Studies (CDS), told The Hindu that migration corridors would change and distance was going to be a major factor for migrants between districts, States and countries, and for students going abroad for higher studies. Dr. Irudayarajan, who is also a member of the task force set up by the government to prepare a road map to resume economic activity post lockdown, said migration was going to be the biggest challenge as mobility by all means had been blocked for 21 days and there would be a new wave of people leaving the State. “How long it will take to normalise travel and mobility is to be seen. It has to be normalised for the growth of economy. Migration has become the keyword after the outbreak of COVID-19. It will take time to normalise and the trends and patterns will be known in three to six months,” he said.  Dr. Irudayarajan is of the view that jobseekers and students will seek nearby places, as the Wuhan experience of medical students is before them. “Students from abroad are major sources of income for universities abroad. It has to be seen how it is going to impact, as visa policies may change,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migration-corridors-may-change-post-lockdown/article31261097.ece
05 April 2020||GUNTUR,||77.04 lakh families get financial aid of Rs. 1,000||About 77.04 lakh families received the financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 announced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the wake of the lockdown owing to COVID-19 threat. About 57.91% of rice cardholders received the amount till 6 p.m., said a media release. The government had earlier announced to provide the assistance to the poor who had lost employment owing to the lockdown. About 2,39,159 volunteers participated in the drive in 15,001 village/ward secretariats across the State. The Chief Minister had ordered distribution of the amount to 1.33 crore rice cardholders and Rs. 1,300 crore had been allocated for the same. The distribution of the amount began at 7 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7704-lakh-ap-families-get-aid-of-rs-1000/article31260811.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Switch off only lights, keep other electrical appliances on: KPTCL||The call for a voluntary nine-minute blackout on Sunday evening by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to show solidarity in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, has put those managing power infrastructure on a high alert as they are concerned about the possibility of disruptions due to a sudden drop in demand. The PM, in his recent address to the nation, had asked people to switch off electric lights for nine minutes and light lamps or torches or switch on the mobile flashlight by standing at the door or on the balcony. Social media abuzz Post the announcement, social media was abuzz with warnings from various quarters, including those in power utilities, about the impact that a sudden drop in demand would have on the power infrastructure. People have been asked by Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) to switch off only lights. KPTCL has said that other electrical appliances, such as refrigerators, air conditioners, coolers, fans and others, should be on during the period. N. Manjula, MD, KPTCL, told The Hindu that people need not panic regarding power supply. “Demand and load balancing issues have already been discussed by the Southern Regional Despatch Center and National Load Despatch Centers of India (NLDC). We estimate that in the State, there will be a reduced load of 700 to 800 MW during that period.” “Meanwhile, 7,000 MW of power will continue to flow that caters to the demand for streetlights, the power supply needs of hospitals, and others. During the reduced load period, we will rely on hydro-electric stations as they provide operational flexibility unlike thermal electricity,” she said. She added that at 9 p.m., depending on the load factor, hydro-electric generations will be kept on rolling mode. After the nine minutes, as the load factor picks up, necessary steps will be taken, she said, adding that they are also deploying senior experts to attend to any exigency during the period. KPTCL, which was part of a meeting through videoconference with the National Load Despatch Centres of India (NLDC) to discuss grid security on Saturday, has said in a release that the NLDC has already issued an advisory note to all the State load despatch centres for reliable and secure system operation during the light load switch off. The advisory has also been issued to all distribution companies to supervise the power supply during the said period. KPTCL has also advised local bodies to switch on streetlights to avoid any law and order problems. The lights in hospitals and other essential services will remain on. “As per the instructions of NLDC, we have instructed all the senior officers working in generating stations, distribution companies, State Load Despatch Center and KPTCL to monitor the power supply during the said period,” the release states. A Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) circular has also elaborated on the need for precautionary measures to be taken during the period and advises all power station in-charge officials and RTAMC (Regional Transmission Assent Management Centre) operation staff to be on high alert during the period with required support staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/switch-off-only-lights-keep-other-electrical-appliances-on-kptcl/article31260861.ece
05 April 2020||HUBBALLI,||Five women held on charge of attacking police in Hubballi||The Hubballi police have tightened security in Aralikatti Colony and adjoining areas on Mantur Road in the wake of the stone-pelting incident on Friday in which several persons, including policemen, were injured. The police, who had taken several persons into custody, have arrested five women on the charge of attacking police personnel on duty. They have been identified as Shabana Mainuddin Rona, Shehanaz Zavid Rona, Reshma Anwar Gadag, Mehaboobi Isaq ahmed Mandali, and Shabeera Goodusab Benni, all residents of Aralikatti colony, Mantur Road. The accused were arrested on Friday night and subsequently remanded in judicial custody. ‘Panchanama’ On Saturday, the investigating officer conducted ‘panchanama’ at the site where the stone pelting had taken place. In the presence of witnessess the police collected evidence. Brick pieces and stones were lying strewn on the road at the site of the incident. Additional police personnel have been deployed in Aralikatti colony as a precautionary measure. On Friday, several persons had pelted stones at police personnel and a few Muslim leaders after the police took exception to an unlawful gathering near a mosque. They had also blocked the road and the police had to use force to disperse the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-women-held-on-charge-of-attacking-police-in-hubballi/article31260863.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,||16 who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation test positive in State||Sixteen more persons, including two who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi from Dakshina Kannada, tested positive on Saturday for COVID-19, taking the total number to 144. These include three from Mysuru, who had been to Delhi and returned in January, when the infection had still not entered India. A 21-year-old domestic help and another family member of a couple, who tested positive after their return from London in March, also tested positive. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar told presspersons that a total of 380 persons who attended the Tablighi congregation had been tested in Karnataka and so far 16 of them were found positive. Releasing the COVID-19 bulletin on Saturday, the Minister said that the test reports of 166 persons were awaited. All the 19 foreigners whose samples were collected had tested negative, he said. ‘Jagruthi Karnataka’ The Health Department on Saturday launched “Jagruti Karnataka”, a YouTube channel to raise awareness among healthcare workers, especially grassroot-level workers at gram panchayat level about COVID-19.   Although the department had earlier asked home quarantined people to send their selfies every hour and had said those who violated this rule would be sent to mass quarantine centres, the Minister said none had been sent so far as the department’s surveillance team was keeping track of them regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-test-positive-in-state/article31260862.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pak. vows to appeal against acquittal of Omar Sheikh||Faced with strong criticism from the United States and a possible threat of India raising the case at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Pakistan on Saturday said the acquittal of Omar Ahmed Sheikh Saeed (Omar Sheikh) and three others for the murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl will be appealed. On Thursday, the Sindh province court pronounced on Omar Sheikh’s appeal of his 2002 conviction for the kidnapping and brutal murder of Pearl that year, saying the prosecution had failed to produce “strong unimpeachable corroborative evidence” in the case. The U.S. State Department said the verdict was an “affront to victims of terror everywhere”. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tweeted that the U.S. would continue to demand justice for Pearl’s murder. “This decision caused reservations,” Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said on Saturday. The U.S.’s concerns were “natural”, he noted. “The Sindh Home Department has decided to detain the accused for 90 days under the Public Safety Act,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pak-vows-to-appeal-against-acquittal-of-omar-sheikh/article31260830.ece
05 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Five Dubai returnees among 11 new cases||On Saturday, 11 more persons, including three who had returned to Kerala from the Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizamuddin in Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Six of these cases are from Kasaragod, while the rest are from Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Palakkad and Kannur. Of the 11 cases, five persons had returned from Dubai. The case in Palakkad had returned from Nagpur, and two are contacts of imported cases in Kasaragod. The cases in Alappuzha, Kollam and Ernakulam are those who had travelled to Nizamuddin. Till date, 306 persons have tested positive for COVID-19, of which 254 are currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The number of patients who have been discharged from hospitals after making a full recovery is 50, while two succumbed to COVID-19. The State has 1,71,355 persons under surveillance. Among them, 734 are isolated in hospitals with respiratory symptoms, while the rest are in home quarantine. The number of respiratory samples sent for testing till date is 9,744. Of these 8,586 samples have returned a negative result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-dubai-returnees-among-11-new-cases/article31261103.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-for-action/article31260839.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,||Utilities geared up for lights-off challenge||The power utilities of Telangana are geared up to manage the grid frequency in the wake of PM Narendra Modi’s call to people across the country to switch-off lights in their homes for 9 minutes from 9 p.m. on Sunday, as a mark of solidarity in the fight against COVID-19. CMD of TS-Transco and TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao said that steps were being taken to address the sudden fluctuation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/utilities-geared-up-for-lights-off-challenge/article31261054.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Good news for COVID-positive doctor, wife||A day after a resident doctor and his pregnant wife tested positive for COVID-19 at AIIMS, Delhi, the couple were blessed with a healthy baby boy on Friday. The baby was delivered through C-section, said doctors at AIIMS. Sources said the isolation ward was converted into an operation theatre and a team of 10 doctors was deputed for the delivery. This is the first case in India of a COVID-19 patient delivering a child and so far there is no virus transmission to the baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-news-for-covid-positive-doctor-wife/article31261005.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||59 fresh COVID-19 cases in the Capital||Fifty-nine new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total number to 445. No death was reported. Of the 59 cases, 42 are from the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/59-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-the-capital/article31261007.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||108 Ganga Ram Hospital staff placed in quarantine||One hundred and eight staff of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, including doctors and nurses, have been quarantined after they came in contact with two patients at the hospital who later tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/108-ganga-ram-hospital-staff-placed-in-quarantine/article31261008.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Karaga is on, but will be low key||The famous Bengaluru Karaga will be held as per schedule on April 8, but will be a low-key event. The State government has instructed Mayor M. Goutham Kumar to conduct the festival with ‘only a handful of people’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karaga-is-on-but-will-be-low-key/article31260864.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Ration to non-cardholders at PDS shops announced||With the demand for food items increasing from poor families during the lockdown period, the State government has announced that below poverty line (BPL) ration cards are not required for the poor to get foodgrains at PDS ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ration-to-non-cardholders-at-pds-shops-announced/article31261033.ece
05 April 2020||Bagalkot,||A baffling death in Bagalkot||The Bagalkot district administration is struggling to solve the mystery of how a 75-year-old resident of the city, who died on Friday, got infected with the novel coronavirus despite having no travel history or contact with anyone who travelled abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-baffling-death-in-bagalkot/article31261032.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks more aid for States||The Congress on Saturday said the Union government should empower the State governments by announcing a special economic package of Rs. 1 lakh crore and release about Rs. 42,000 crore due as compensation for the goods and services tax (GST). It urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to offer zero interest loans as the States have been at the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi asked the government to scale up testing rather than “lighting lamps”, while the party criticised the government for not banning export of diagnostic kits until Saturday. “India is simply not testing enough to fight the #Covid19 virus. Making people clap & shining torches in the sky isn’t going to solve the problem,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. “Testing & Diagnostics are imperative in fight against #COVID2019! Till 19th March & 24th March, Govt permitted export of Masks, Sanitizers & Ventilators. Even more shocking is the fact that Govt permitted export of Diagnostic equipment till date! Who is weakening the fight,” asked Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Twitter with a copy of a government notification attached. Curbs imposed An April 4 notification of the Commerce Ministry restricted the free export of diagnostic kits. In an online media interaction, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate offered a number of suggestions, including building a consensus instead of making “unilateral announcements”. “We urge the government yet again to create a national consensus by putting in place a structured consultative process between the Centre and the States while formulating our strategy to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak and the collateral damage of life and livelihood. A similar consensus must also be arrived at by involving all political parties in key decision-making at this crucial juncture rather than making just unilateral announcements,” the Congress spokesperson said. “The States don’t have the same instruments to mobilise funds like the Union government even though the real implementation of the measures announced are being done by the State governments. We strongly urge the Central government to announce a special economic package of at least Rs. 1 lakh crore for the States to combat the crisis,” Ms Shrinate said. The money could be divided on the basis of a State’s population.  Delayed payment “The Centre has delayed payment of GST compensation to the States. Of the Rs. 48,000 crore pending in GST compensation, only Rs. 6,195 crore has been released so far. Due to the halt in economic activity, the States are facing a further shortage in GST revenue. Several States, including the BJP-ruled ones, have approached the Central government seeking clearance of their pending tax dues,” she said. The Congress urged the RBI, which effected an additional 30% increase in Way and Means Advances (WMA) for the State governments, to make it interest-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-more-aid-for-states/article31260771.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lights-off event will not harm grid: Ministry||India’s power grid is likely to come to no harm on account of the mass switching off of electric lights on Sunday, the Power Ministry has said in a statement. “Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances... they are misplaced,” the press statement said. It said the electricity grid was “robust and stable”, and adequate arrangements and protocols were in place to handle the variation in demand. Only residential lights It said the call was not to switch off street lights or computers, television sets, fans, refrigerators and air conditioners. Only lights should be switched off, but not except in hospitals and other essential services such as public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations, manufacturing facilities. To dispel the “deep darkness” that the pandemic had wrought, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday exhorted Indians to switch off their residential lights at 9 p.m. on Sunday and light candles or flash their phone-lights in the following nine minutes. Power companies say a sudden dip and then a spike in supply could threaten the stability of the grid and may cause some of them to trip. Power System Operation Corporation (Posoco) Ltd, a public sector company in charge of managing the grid load, said it expected a 12-13 GW (1 gigawatt is 1,000 megawatt) dip and a subsequent surge in 17 minutes. (A four-minute window either side of the nine minutes when consumers would begin switching off and then relight). 20% down With the lockdown in force, power suppliers across India are already grappling with a 20% dip in demand. An instability in the grid would wobble the frequency range at which electricity flows and threaten an outage. In an advisory, Posoco described the anticipated fluctuation in demand as “unprecedented” and would need hydro and gas resources to help the grid retain its stability. The method of management would be a phased reduction in gas- and hydro generation from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at inter-State generating stations and then a ramping up from 9:10 onwards, according to the note.  Apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability ... they are misplaced||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lights-off-event-will-not-harm-grid-ministry/article31260785.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Power managers primed for a dip and surge||The lights-off event planned for Sunday can lead to disruptions in power supply when everyone switches off their lights from 9 p.m. and switches on after nine minutes. Electricity authorities have studied power consumption patterns across India and the share of lighting in it, to come up with a plan to handle the expected dip and surge in consumption. When everyone switches off their lights, the power plants will be affected. The situation can be compared to a bicycle climbing upward. When the lights go off all at once, it is akin to the cyclist suddenly reaching the peak and continuing to pedal as before during the climb down. The bicycle speed will then ramp up and could lead to the cyclist losing his balance. The voltage in the grid and the frequency will surge. The frequency can be understood as the electrical equivalent of the bicycle’s speed. The bicyclist losing his balance is like our power plants stopping operation as a result of these sudden changes. If, however, the bicyclist anticipates the steepness of the terrain and the cliff, then he can pedal as required. Electricity authorities have observed consumption patterns across States and concluded that the dip and surge is likely to be of the order of 12 to 14 gigawatts, which is roughly 10% of electricity consumed (load, actually) at any given point in time in India. And the dip and the surge will each happen in two to four minutes. Different types of power plants have different abilities to handle sudden increase or decrease in load. The control we have on these plants varies. In hydro plants, the water can be stored in dams to the brim and then let down. In coal-fired plants, it would be harder to suddenly reduce or increase their power generation. They take a while. In gas-fired plants, load changes can be much quicker. In nuclear plants, this ability is quite limited. It would be difficult to switch off or load these plants suddenly or quickly. In solar and wind, there is little or no control. The sun and the wind do not obey us at all. Based on these, Power System Operation Corporation (Posoco) Limited has come up with a strategy. In India, power consumption hits a low at around 6.10 p.m. This is when everyone has left their offices. Lights are off in offices and not yet on at homes. The sun has not set yet. Fans are probably off, too. After the low, power consumption rises and hits a peak at around 7.20 p.m. It then starts reducing. Evening plan During the evening, when power consumption starts rising after the 6.10 p.m. low, the hydro plants will be powered down by decreasing the water flowing to the turbines and, instead, storing the water in the reservoirs during the evening (after 6 p.m.) when power demand hits a peak. The load will be taken up by other units. Before lights-out on Sunday, by 8.55 p.m., the thermal generating units such as coal and gas will be powered down to 60% of their capacity. And hydro plants will be powered up to take the shortfall from thermal plants. After 8.57 p.m., both types of plants will be powered down as people switch off their lights. Power managers will keep a watch over the frequency. If they reduce the power but the demand is still there and not enough people are switching off their lights, then the frequency will dip too much. As the lights-out picks up, hydro units will be brought down to less than 10% of the maximum power they can produce. Gas units will be brought down to minimum power. From 9.05 p.m., the thermal units will start ramping up, and from 9.09 p.m. hydro units will start powering up. After stabilisation, the operation of all types of power plants will be brought to normal. Operationally, Posoco has asked all senior personnel to be on duty. Contingency plans include black start — starting power plants during a black-out.  (The writer is an   independent journalist)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-managers-primed-for-a-dip-and-surge/article31260787.ece
05 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. government to expand virus testing||The Uttar Pradesh government has indicated it would expand the spread of testing for COVID-19 in the State, though in small numbers. State Health Principal Secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said the surveillance process had started in those districts that had not recorded any cases yet. Till Friday evening, 24 out of 75 districts in the State had reported positive cases, as per the U.P. Directorate of Health Services. With 47 cases across 14 districts linked to members of the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, the State’s overall figure stood at 174 on Friday evening. Mr. Mohan said districts where there had not been enough testing had been directed to test at least four samples of cold, cough, fever and pneumonia cases daily. This would be done across the State, he said. “At this stage, getting people tested as much as possible and as soon as the results come, carrying out immediate aggressive containment and isolation exercise and putting them under facility quarantine are the most important tasks,” Mr. Prasad said. The State currently has eight laboratories testing for COVID-19 with a ninth one in Jhansi waiting for approval. Mr. Prasad also said that the State was going to use rapid testing kits for surveillance soon. Each district had a dedicated level-1 COVID-19 hospital operating, while three level-3 COVID-19 hospitals were notified and six level-2 COVID-19 hospitals were to be notified, said the official. Uttar Pradesh has so far tested 4,006 samples for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-government-to-expand-virus-testing/article31260781.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Study lists 69 existing drugs to target novel coronavirus||In a breathtaking feat, nearly 100 scientists from across the globe worked together to study the genes of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) and have published a list of drugs that can be repurposed to treat COVID-19. The study posted on preprint server bioRxiv on March 27 is yet to be peer-reviewed or published in a scientific journal. The proteins of the virus must attach to the human proteins to cause the infection. The team studied 26 coronavirus genes that help in the production of these proteins. It also studied human proteins and found 332 SARS-CoV-2 and human protein interactions. The team then listed 67 human proteins that can be targeted by 69 drugs to fight the infection. These drugs include the those under clinical trials and/or preclinical compounds. “When the virus invades the cells, it hijacks the cells’ molecular machinery to replicate itself because it cannot do this on its own. The drugs we have identified may be able to inhibit these molecular machines so that the virus can no longer use them for its own survival. However, they still need to be further tested,” said Mehdi Bouhaddou, one of the authors. He is a post-doctoral fellow at the University of California, San Francisco. Familiar names The list includes unexpected candidates such as entacapone used to treat Parkinson’s disease. Another is the antiviral medication named ribavirin, which was administered to Nipah patients in Kerala during the 2018 outbreak. Chloroquine, an antimalarial drug, and metformin, used to treat diabetes, are also there.  “The next step is to test these drugs in labs we are collaborating with in New York (Mount Sinai) and Paris (Pasteur Institute), where they have the virus growing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/study-lists-69-existing-drugs-to-target-novel-coronavirus/article31260790.ece
05 April 2020||Srinagar,||Four militants killed in Kulgam||Four militants were killed and a house was damaged in an operation by security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Saturday. Three militants were killed earlier in the day and the body of the fourth was recovered later in the debris of the house, where the militants were holed up, a spokesman in Srinagar said. The police said the militants surrounded by a joint search party of the Army, the police and the CRPF in Man Gori village of Khul Batpora area of Kulgam. “The militants were challenged. They opened fire and the exchange of fire resulted in their killing,” the police said. However, the locals said the militants were killed in a blast detonated by the security forces that razed the house to the ground. The police said they were identifying the slain militants. Today’s operation was the first encounter in Kulgam district after a gap of 11 months. The police said the militants were behind the killing of four civilians in Kulgam in the past 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-militants-killed-in-kulgam/article31260776.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR issues rule book on ‘large outbreaks’||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) made public guidelines that detail how the country plans to manage a “large outbreak” as well as guidelines on how rapid antibody test kits ought to deployed. India’s official position is that there is no evidence of community transmission in the country. According to Lav Agrawal, spokesperson, Health Ministry, 30% (about 1,000 positive cases spread across 17 States) of India’s total case count is attributable to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi earlier this month. The plan for large outbreaks, released on Saturday, specifies: active surveillance for cases and contacts in the identified geographic zone, expanding laboratory capacity for testing all suspect cases, high risk contacts and Sever Acute Respiratory Illness cases, operationalise surge capacities created for isolation (COVID-19 hospitals/COVID-19 dedicated blocks) to hospitalise and manage all suspect/confirmed cases, implementing physical distancing measures with strict perimeter control, provide chemoprophylaxis with hydroxy-chloroquine to all asymptomatic healthcare workers and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases. It also detailed guidelines on the use of rapid antibody testing kits. Unlike the real-time RT-PCR kits that are used to detect an ongoing infection, these kits — within 15 minutes to two hours at the maximum — can say if a person has ever been infected by the virus and gives authorities an estimate of whether there are asymptomatic carriers of the infection in a community. Knowing the proportion of asymptomatic carriers to positive cases gives an insight into the infectivity of the disease, transmission patterns and helps prepare for the long-term management of the epidemic. Testing negative via an antibody kit doesn’t automatically rule out infection and needs to be supplemented by a PCR test, the ICMR guidelines specify. Hundreds of antibody kit manufacturers have been approved in India in the last week to offer tests, according to the Health Ministry website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-issues-rule-book-on-large-outbreaks/article31260784.ece
05 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Bhilwara enforces ‘all down curfew’||Determined to snap the chain of COVID-19 transmission, authorities in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara have now imposed an aggressive 11-day-long “all down curfew” with even essential services being severely curtailed. The textile city, which had emerged as the State’s first hotspot for COVID-19 infections a fortnight ago, appears to have had a measure of success in containing the spread of the virus, with only one positive case detected during the last four days, and 17 of the 27 infected persons having recovered after treatment. The containment efforts, which included an indefinite curfew that was imposed on March 20 even before the nationwide lockdown began, has had some tangible impact. Nine of the 17 patients were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital on Friday, followed by two on Saturday, after multiple tests confirmed their full recovery. The infection had initially spread in Brijesh Bangar Memorial Hospital, a private hospital which has since been sealed. While all curfew passes issued since March 20, were cancelled and the district’s borders sealed, a 3,000-strong police force, along with the home guards and the State Disaster Response Force personnel, were enforcing the curfew which started on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhilwara-enforces-all-down-curfew/article31260783.ece
05 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Shillong dentist writes prescription for liquor||To drink or not to drink. This is the subject of a lively debate in Meghalaya’s capital Shillong amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown. A dentist in the city on Friday prescribed two bottles of whiskey to a 65-year-old male patient, advising him not to drink more than two pegs a day. The doctor cited the case of Kerala in justifying the prescription. He said his patient was suffering from withdrawal symptoms. “I have advised him to consume alcohol in limited quantity,” he said.  The dentist’s prescription coincided with an appeal by the Wine Dealers and Welfare Association in Shillong to Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma seeking permission to open their outlets across the State with immediate effect. The association said the lockdown had increased the demand for liquor. Their appeal followed the withdrawal of an order by the State government asking bonded warehouses to sell liquor. The order was withdrawn after the Indian Medical Association objected to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shillong-dentist-writes-prescription-for-liquor/article31260791.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||42% of patients between 20 & 40 years||“About 1,023 positive cases linked to the organisation can be traced to 17 States. We couldn’t manage and understand this event and the cases increased due to this,” said Mr. Agarwal. Nearly 22,000 contacts related to the religious event had been quarantined. About 75,000 had so far been tested, an ICMR spokesperson at the press briefing said. “We are gradually increasing our testing capacity. Our capacity is now nearly 10,000 tests per day.” The Health Ministry has also revised its advisory on the use of masks. The new guidelines accept the role of “face covers.” Unlike the surgical masks and respirator masks used in hospitals, “face covers” are home made and made of cotton and could be re-used provided they were properly washed and dried. “People who are not suffering from medical conditions or having breathing difficulties may use the handmade reusable face cover, particularly when they step out of their house. This will help in protecting the community at large,” a note from the Ministry said. Last week, the office of India's Principal Scientific Adviser made public a manual that explained how such face covers could be made and recommended that they be widely used. While the general recommendation by the WHO has been to avoid masks — as they could deplete supplies for health personnel — opinion has changed over concerns that the infection had spread widely and people were increasingly likely to catch it when outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/42-of-patients-between-20-40-years/article31260767.ece
05 April 2020||Mumbai,||Two more positive cases from Dharavi||The number of COVID-19 positive cases from Dharavi rose to four on Saturday. A 30-year-old woman, a resident of the same area as the first patient, along with a 48-year-old man from Dharavi’s Mukund Nagar, tested positive for the disease. This brings the total to four from the area, excluding a conservancy worker, who also tested positive. Upscale Shivaji Park too reported its first positive case on Saturday. Even as authorities are inspecting a Tablighi Jamaat link to the death of the first COVID-19 patient, the deceased’s immediate contacts have tested negative. But, a 30 year-old woman from the same part of Dharavi, Baliga Nagar, tested positive on Saturday. She was not a contact of the first patient. Her family is being tested and Baliga Nagar was sealed off. BMC has set up a health camp and is taking swab samples of residents who exhibit symptoms. The second case is of a 48-year-old man from Mukund Nagar, not very far from Baliga Nagar. The patient has been admitted to Sion hospital. Both patients did not have a foreign travel history. BMC carried out screening and disinfection at Mukund Nagar on Saturday. BMC Earlier, a doctor from Wockhardt hospital had also tested positive for COVID-19 and is under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-positive-cases-from-dharavi/article31260764.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus drives oncologists to tweak cancer treatments||An analysis of patients in China published in The Lancet Oncology in March stated that patients with cancer might have a higher risk of COVID-19 than individuals without cancer. “Patients with cancer had poorer outcomes from COVID-19, providing a timely reminder to physicians that more intensive attention should be paid to patients with cancer, in case of rapid deterioration,” the article’s authors wrote, further suggesting “intentional postponing of adjuvant chemotherapy or elective surgery for stable cancers in endemic areas”. “Data from China has shown that mortality in cancer patients was two times higher as compared to general patients with COVID-19,” observed Ashok Vaid, chairman, medical and haemato oncology, Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon. “Italy had recorded a 20% mortality in cancer patients. We have to use this data for our learning. We are trying to make multiple interventions on case to case basis. For example, we are switching elderly cancer patients on oral therapies instead of intravenous, opting for milder therapies and also reducing their hospital visits. But it all differs on a case to case basis, based on the biology of cancer,” he said. Mumbai-based surgical oncologist Vinay Deshmane said his team had been postponing surgeries if possible and were operating only on cases where surgery couldn’t wait. “I am also advising three weekly therapies instead of weekly therapies. The idea is to not have a rigid outlook and treat each case individualistically,” he said. The lockdown has already resulted in reduced patient footfall. “We are not discontinuing the ongoing regimens,” said Amal Kataki, director of Dr. B Borooah Cancer Institute, Guwahati. “But we are modifying the treatment protocol in some cases so that the risk of COVID-19 is mitigated as much as possible,” Dr. Kataki added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-drives-oncologists-to-tweak-cancer-treatments/article31260768.ece
05 April 2020||Srinagar,||J&K parties condemn changes to domicile laws||The Centre’s move to make amendments to Jammu & Kashmir’s domicile laws within days of its issuing, drew flak from the regional parties including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Peoples Conference (PC), on Saturday. The Home Ministry order late on Friday provides protection to domiciles to “any post” in the government including Group A and Group B, apart from Group D and entry-level non-gazetted government posts. “It’s high time people of J&K get to decide the laws that will govern them rather than being subjected to the whims and fancies of the Centre, where orders are issued in the morning and changes issued in the evening. Restore statehood and conduct elections in J&K,” said NC vice president Omar Abdullah. Castigating the ruling BJP, PDP spokesperson Firdous Tak said, “The domicile legislation, even in its amended form, portrays the real intention behind the scrapping of J&K’s special status. A law that was meant to govern the 12 million population of Jammu & Kashmir was so offhandedly drafted.” PC spokesperson Junaid Azim Mattu said: “The sensitive and cherished aspect of sub-identity remains unguarded. This perhaps sums up the new state of affairs: ‘Take a pound from you and throw some pennies back at you and subject you to enacting a monkey dance’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-parties-condemn-changes-to-domicile-laws/article31260769.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Don’t spread communal virus, warns Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday warned of strict action against persons spreading communally divisive messages on social media amidst rising cases of COVID-19. In his address through social media, Mr. Thackeray reiterated that no permission will be granted to religious, political or sporting events in the State till further notice. He also added that lifting of lockdown in the State after April 14 will depend upon the compliance by people to the government directives. In an apparent reference to hate speech on social media against a Muslim community in the wake of the spike in COVID-19 cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi, Mr Thackeray warned of strict action against such persons. “There is another virus of divisiveness apart from the coronavirus. I warn such people that I will ensure that no law will save you,” he said. Addressing communities other than Hindus, without specifically naming them, the Chief Minister said, “We celebrated Gudhipadwa and Ramnavmi by staying indoors. I am confident that other communities would do the same.” The CM said religious leaders, including maulvis, have been in touch with him, and have asked members of their communities to not venture out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-spread-communal-virus-warns-uddhav/article31260773.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Grounding of planes hits weather data supply||“Now that’s been reduced. But because weather services are an essential service we are working with reduced manpower,” he added. The IMD is a subsidiary of the MoES. A major factor for gauging the performance of the monsoon is the El Nino, a warming of the ocean waters in the equatorial Pacific Ocean. This data is measured by observational data buoys located in the sea and relayed via satellite. “This data isn’t affected so far,” Dr. Pai said. The IMD issues its first forecast for the June-September monsoon in April and updates it in June. Aviation-generated data is also helpful to warn of developing thunderstorms or swings in temperatures that often begin at the heights aircraft traverse. “There are mathematical fixes that can be used to compensate for this. However, a lack of data for a prolonged period of time is a big loss for calculating weather trends and future climate patterns,” the IMD scientist added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grounding-of-planes-hits-weather-data-supply/article31260777.ece
05 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover for policemen||Amid the COVID-19 crisis in the State, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a special health insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh each for the police personnel and sanitation workers in the front line of the battle against the pandemic, on the lines of that announced for health workers by the Centre. The number of cases in the State rose to 65 till April 4 with eight fresh cases on Saturday, including three who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March. The Chief Minister also warned of strict action, including impounding of passports, of those who fail to declare their travel history.  Strict action At a Cabinet meeting, Capt. Amarinder said there could be no compromise on this count and anyone found hiding their travel history from police and Health department personnel would be dealt with strictly. “We will take away their passports too,” he warned. The Chief Minister also authorised extension for all retiring health department employees by three months, said an official statement. Taking note of shutdown of operations by several private hospitals, the Cabinet decided on strict action, with the Chief Minister suggesting that the Health department cancel the licences of hospitals refusing to treat COVID-19 patients. The Health department officers earlier informed the Cabinet that rapid tests will begin in the State to speed up the identification of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-50-lakh-insurance-cover-for-policemen/article31261009.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Pak. vows to appeal against acquittal of Omar Sheikh||In another statement, the Imran Khan government said it was “concerned” about the verdict. “Government of Pakistan reiterates its commitment to follow due process under the laws of the country to bring terrorists to task,” a statement issued by the Pakistan Information Department said. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on the case. However, diplomats and security officials said the acquittal and Pakistan’s subsequent actions would only open a new can of worms in the case of Omar Sheikh, who was arrested for kidnapping and terror in India in 1994. He was released along with Masood Azhar after the IC-814 hijacking. Sheikh, who was believed to have worked closely with Al Qaeda before and after 9/11, was being investigated for wiring $100,000 to 9/11 attacker Mohammad Atta. He was in touch with Osama Bin Laden. Former diplomat Vivek Katju said, “Pakistan’s approach to terrorism is revealed by the shoddiness with which they prosecuted Omar Sheikh in such a high profile case. Much will depend on how it manages the appeals in the higher courts.” Apart from the loopholes, some also raised the questions of a possible link to the current Minister of Interior Brig (retd.) Ijaz Shah, a former IB chief. In 2002, with a manhunt declared for him in the Pearl case, he had reportedly sought refuge with Mr. Shah, and then “surrendered” to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-vows-to-appeal-against-acquittal-of-omar-sheikh/article31260774.ece
05 April 2020||Mumbai,||Khans offer office to help fight virus||Actor Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan have offered their personal office to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to help expand their quarantine facility for those afflicted with COVID-19. The four-storey building, located in Mumbai’s Khar area, would be equipped with essentials for quarantined children, women and the elderly. The BMC handle @mybmc tweeted this on Saturday. This comes two days after the actor had pledged aid to a number of organisations on several fronts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/khans-offer-office-to-help-fight-virus/article31260788.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Nothing but a cruel joke on the poor’||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked people to switch off electric lights at home and light candles or oil lamps for nine minutes on Sunday, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) wrote to him on Saturday to express disappointment. CITU general secretary Tapan Sen, said the workers suffering because of the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19, expected some relief from Mr. Modi’s Friday address. “The country remains in the dark on the measures that your government is taking to fight the coronavirus, while you called upon the people to put off lights and light candles at 9 p.m. on April 5 to drive away the darkness caused by the coronavirus... It is nothing but a cruel joke on the poor,” the letter stated. The CITU urged Mr. Modi to address the demands of trade unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nothing-but-a-cruel-joke-on-the-poor/article31260765.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Modi, Trump talk on fight against virus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump on Saturday held a detailed discussion on the situation arising out of the COVID-19 outbreak and resolved to deploy the full strength of the India-U.S. partnership to fight the pandemic. Mr. Modi tweeted that they held an “extensive” telephonic conversation. “We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight COVID-19,” he posted. Mr. Modi also tweeted that he had a conversation with Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro on how India and Brazil could join forces against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-trump-talk-on-fight-against-virus/article31260763.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mallya case order may get delayed||The verdict in the extradition case against fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya by a United Kingdom court may get delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so far claimed more than 4,300 lives there. In February, the court heard Mr. Mallya’s appeal against the Westminster Magistrates Court’s clearance of his extradition in connection with the cases instituted by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate. A joint team of both agencies was there to assist the prosecution. “After the hearing, the court reserved the order. It is possible that the pandemic may cause delay in the announcement of the verdict,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mallya-case-order-may-get-delayed/article31260766.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||PM to brief floor leaders on COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for a meeting of floor leaders of political parties in both Houses of Parliament on April 8 to brief them about COVID-19 outbreak and related issues. The meeting will be held through video- conferencing. The Budget session of Parliament was adjourned on March 23 after an increase in number of COVID-19 positive cases in the country. The Trinamool Congress has said it may give the meeting a skip. A Trinamool leader said the party had been seeking a discussion in Parliament and an all-party meeting on COVID-19 since early March but to no avail. “Now that the situation has blown up, why are they calling this meeting. It’s merely a photo-op,” a senior party leader said. The Congress has not taken a call on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-brief-floor-leaders-on-covid-19/article31260772.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Hospital seeks details of staff online groups||To “prevent” any “adverse comments or statements” on social media and the spread of fake news by hospital or college staff, the Vardhaman Mahavir College and Safdarjung Hospital in the capital has asked for names and details of all admins of WhatsApp groups of staff members. The hospital is among those treating COVID-19 patients. “This is required to prevent the spread of fake news, rumours or adverse comments on social media and in the institution You are requested to submit names, mobile numbers, e-mail of all admins of WhatsApp Groups of the hospital staff,” an order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-seeks-details-of-staff-online-groups/article31260778.ece
05 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Tablighis asked to get tested within a day||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday called upon Tablighi Jamaat returnees to come forward for testing within 24 hours and urged people not to panic but stay watchful to contain the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Patnaik appealed to those who had returned to the State after attending the Jamaat’s religious conference in Delhi to call toll free number 104 and follow the advice of the doctors. The State government’s Health and Family Welfare Department said in a message, “We once again request all who have a link to Nizamuddin incident to voluntarily call 104 and provide information about their contacts. There is no need to panic and hide. Anyone with information about such persons may inform 104. Help us keep you safe.” The government has so far traced 28 persons who had returned from the Nizamuddin gathering. While 25 of them had tested negative, three – one each in Cuttack, Puri and Jajpur – tested positive. The government said that about 40 others from the State who attended the event were reportedly stranded in Delhi and other States. The contacts of a group of 10 delegates of the Jamaat who had returned after visiting Talcher town are being traced. 1,395 samples were tested at the three labs across the State till Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tablighis-asked-to-get-tested-within-a-day/article31260782.ece
05 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Padma awardee denied proper treatment: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal president and former Punjab Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday alleged that Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, a Padma Shri awardee who died of COVID-19, was not given quality medical treatment at the government hospital in Amritsar. “Details of the last telephone call of Khalsa with his family are shocking. He disclosed that no one attended to him for four hours. Later, the family revealed that the hospital was unhygienic, nurses did not have any gloves,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/padma-awardee-denied-proper-treatment-sukhbir/article31261010.ece
05 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Pregnant woman refused attention: Minister||Senior Congress leader and Rajasthan Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh alleged on Saturday that a pregnant woman was refused medical attention at a government hospital in Bharatpur because of her “religious identity”. The woman was referred in a critical condition by the hospital to Jaipur. “The child, who was later delivered in an ambulance, died. What worse can we ask for?” he tweeted. An enquiry into the incident has been ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-woman-refused-attention-minister/article31261011.ece
05 April 2020||Bhopal,||Adivasi man dies after police thrash villagers outside shop||The family of a 65-year-old Adivasi man in Madhya Pradesh has alleged that he was beaten to death by the Dhar police while he was waiting outside a grocery store on Friday. The district administration, however, claimed the senior citizen died of a heart attack after seeing the police. The deceased, Tibu Meda, from Khargone, had gone with his son-in-law Sanjay Meda to Dhar as the shop in his village had run out of supplies. “The police started beating us with batons without provocation,” said Mr. Sanjay Meda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adivasi-man-dies-after-police-thrash-villagers-outside-shop/article31260792.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No plan yet to resume services: Railways||The Railways on Saturday said no final decision had been taken on the restoration of train services. The statement comes amid reports that the Railways had prepared a plan to resume the services that remain suspended because of the 21-day lockdown. “No such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued,” the Railways said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-plan-yet-to-resume-services-railways/article31260794.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS doctor and wife, who tested positive, blessed with baby boy||A day after a resident doctor and his wife tested positive for COVID-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in the capital, they were blessed with a healthy baby boy on Friday. The child, delivered through a C-section at AIIMS, is doing well, said doctors at the hospital. This is the first case of a COVID-19 positive woman being delivered of a child. There is no evidence of virus transmission in the child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-doctor-and-wife-who-tested-positive-blessed-with-baby-boy/article31260795.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State all set to turn its lights off||Tamil Nadu is all set for a smooth implementation of the nine-minute-long ‘lights-off’ event on Sunday night, officials have said. In the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off electric lights at houses for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on Sunday, senior officials of the State power utilities – the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation and the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation – are of the view that there is no need to assume that other electrical appliances also have to be switched off. There is no bar to their use, according to the authorities. A senior official of the Nuclear Power Corporation of India suggested that, to be on the safe side, ceiling fans should be used for 15 minutes, from 8.55 p.m. till 9.10 p.m. At the all-India level, the reduction in power demand is expected to be in the order of 12,000 megawatts (MW). By applying this yardstick, in the case of Tamil Nadu, it is going to be around 1,100 MW to 1,200 MW. As the drop or surge is going to be about 10% of total usage, it is within each regional or State grid’s fluctuating efficiency, another official clarified. On Friday evening (at 6.55 p.m.), the peak demand of the State was 11,227 MW. As for issues concerning grid stability in Tamil Nadu, a top official felt that there was no need for alarm. Even the question of resorting to ‘islanding’ — a process by which a State separates itself from its regional grid in times of grid crash — does not arise. Notwithstanding the assurances of the authorities, M.G. Devasahayam, civil society activist and former chairman of the now-abolished Haryana State Electricity Board, was of the view that while there was no harm in people lighting lamps to express solidarity with those working on alleviating the impact of COVID-19, the ‘lights-off’ event carried the “risk of causing grid collapse”. It would not serve the public interest, he contended.  At the all-India level, the reduction in power demand is expected to be in the order of 12,000 megawatts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-all-set-to-turn-its-lights-off/article31260958.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police display their softer side||The police are reaching out to children in slums, gifting them books and crayons to keep them indoors, with the lockdown in place in the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19. On Saturday, women police personnel, attached to the Crime against Women and Children (CWC) wing, drove in Amma patrol vehicles, with loads of drawing books and crayons to the slums, and found children loitering about, unmindful of the threat. While interacting with them, the women personnel handed over the materials to the children and asked them to stay indoors as much as possible. Deputy Commissioner of Police, CWC, H. Jayalakshmi, told The Hindu , “The welfare of children is important at this time of crisis. We distributed drawing books and crayons to engage them and get them to stay indoors.” “Our personnel also explained the preventive measures to be taken against COVID-19, and the children will make elders in their houses follow cleanliness and physical distancing norms,” she said. A police inspector, wearing a helmet in the likeness of the virus, conducted an awareness campaign among the children. The campaign was conducted in K.K. Nagar, Triplicane and Royapettah, among other areas, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-display-their-softer-side/article31260924.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||26 private medical colleges, 112 private hospitals can treat COVID-19 patients||Now, people who test positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) can get treatment in private hospitals across the State. The Health department has notified a district-wise list of 26 private medical college hospitals and 112 private hospitals where people affected by COVID-19 could avail themselves of treatment at their own expense. In an order issued on Saturday, the department said that already, the government had notified a list of designated government hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Treatment is being offered at all government medical college hospitals, district headquarters hospitals and key sub-district hospitals, free-of-cost. However, some patients had expressed a desire to get treated in private hospitals. Hence, the government has now included private establishments in the list of hospitals where COVID-19 patients could get treatment. These hospitals have been directed to follow the treatment protocols prescribed by the government from time to time. They should send daily reports on the treatment given to patients to the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The list of hospitals would be modified from time to time by the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services, based on the situation. The list includes three private medical colleges in Coimbatore, 12 in Kancheepuram/Chengalpattu, two each in Salem and Tiruvallur and one each in Chennai, Kanniyakumari, Madurai, Tiruchi and Vellore. Of the 112 private hospitals, 9 are in Chennai, six each in Madurai and Coimbatore, four each in Tiruchi and Kancheepuram/Chengalpattu and three in Tiruvallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-private-medical-colleges-112-private-hospitals-can-treat-covid-19-patients/article31260950.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||During lockdown, she goes out to serve society, and her family||Despite the risks surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, V. Eswari, a conservancy worker with the Greater Chennai Corporation, goes out to work every day, and cleans the roads in Nolambur Phase 1. She is now the sole breadwinner of her family. Due to the COVID-19 scare, Ms. Eswari’s daughters have been trying to persuade her not to step out. But she is left with no choice, as her two sons and two sons-in-law, all daily wage earners, do not have any work now. “So my Rs. 9,000 monthly salary is essential to run the family. Since I am a contract worker, my salary will be cut if I take a day’s leave,” says Ms. Eswari, while having her breakfast, sitting on the wheel of a garbage pushcart. To date, she is not very sure about her age. “I must be in my 40s. I have been working with the GCC for the nine years and clearing garbage from the roads. My husband died 10 years ago and after struggling a lot, I managed to get my two daughters married,” she says. Wearing gloves and a mask, she cleans the roads every day from 6 a.m to 2 p.m. The civic body provides breakfast and lunch. “Nowadays, when we ask for water many residents ask us to wash our hands before taking the tumbler or bottle. But a few just refuse, fearing that they may contract the virus. This attitude hurts me and my fellow workers,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/during-lockdown-she-goes-out-to-serve-society-and-her-family/article31260935.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State has ordered 1 lakh rapid test kits, says Health Minister||The State has placed orders for 1 lakh COVID-19 rapid test kits through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC), Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said. “We already have 17 testing facilities in Tamil Nadu — 11 in the government sector and six in the private sector. The government is aiming to set up a testing facility in each district. We are also working on providing RT-PCR (Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction) equipment to districts. As per the Chief Minister’s instructions on rapid testing, we have placed orders for 1 lakh rapid test kits through TNMSC,” he told reporters on Saturday. The aim was to speed up testing, he added. The Minister, along with C. Sylendra Babu, Director General of Police, Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, inspected disinfection work at the Government Royapettah Hospital. While government hospitals had been notified as COVID-19 hospitals, he said private hospitals had been asked to reserve 25% of their beds for isolation facilities. Accordingly, Sri Ramachandra Medical College had come forward to set up a facility with 1,500 beds. MIOT Hospital had volunteered to set up a 500-bed facility in a separate block, and the Saveetha Medical College Hospital was also planning to establish such a facility, the Minister said. TV in isolation wards “A Government Order has been issued, specifying a list of private hospitals that have been approved by the government to have COVID-19 management facilities in each district,” he added. The Minister said television sets were being installed in the isolation wards to keep patients engaged and motivated. The patients could watch entertainment channels in these wards. Nutritious food was being provided five times a day, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel were taking up massive disinfection work in public places and at government hospitals where COVID-19 patients had been admitted. They were taking up disinfection work in around 4,500 places across the State on a war footing, he said. “When done manually, it may require more workers and take a long time. But they are covering entire campuses in one or two hours,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-has-ordered-1-lakh-rapid-test-kits-says-health-minister/article31260945.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Student found dead||A 25-year-old Nigerian student of a university in Kattankulathur was found dead in his house in Potheri on Saturday. The police identified the student as Okpe Victor, from Kaduna State, Nigeria. He was a final-year student of B.Sc, Computer Science. The body was taken for post-mortem to the government hospital. “Since flights have been cancelled, his parents cannot come here to collect the body. It is very sad,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-found-dead/article31260931.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur’s Cobuddy app gets first distress message||The Tiruvallur police on Saturday received the first message seeking help on Cobuddy — the platform which includes a mobile app for tracking those quarantined with COVID-19. In Tiruvallur district, over 500 people are under home quarantine and to track them, the Tiruvallur district police, with NotionTag Technologies, launched Cobuddy last week. Using the platform, the government can track, communicate effectively and eventually coordinate delivery of essentials to the doorsteps of the quarantined persons. “More than 200 persons have downloaded the app. On Saturday, a person from Adyar, whose permanent address is in Tiruvallur, contacted us over the application and said he had throat pain. We referred him to a private hospital in Adyar and alerted the health officials,” said P. Aravindan, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur. Mr. Aravindan has requested home quarantined persons in Tiruvallur district to install the application. “This will help them reach out to us and the doctors and police can help them during emergency,” he said. The application has been aiding the police and health officials to track the quarantined persons. As facial recognition-based attendance is part of the application, the quarantined person cannot leave the phone at home and sneak out as random messages will be sent throughout the day asking him to click photograph as proof of attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallurs-cobuddy-app-gets-first-distress-message/article31260937.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Step up testing to detect asymptomatic patients: Stalin||DMK President M.K. Stalin said the government should listen to the medical experts and increase RT-PCR as they suspected that there were a large number of asymptomatic patients. In his message through social media, Mr. Stalin said testing people with overseas travel history alone was not adequate and patients with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulties should be subjected to the RT-PCR. Making a strong case for bringing down the cost for the test, MR Stalin said more testing centres should be created besides converting private hospitals as treatment centres for COVID-19. Mr. Stalin said the people and the government should realise that the disease had proved to be a social disaster and the government should see to it that its announcements for relief measures reached the last man in the street. Alleging that the government was refusing to supply disinfectants and personal safety equipment to local bodies because the DMK was in power in the civic bodies, Mr. Stalin said politics should be avoided in the time of calamity. He called upon people to reject those who resort to cheap politics by dragging caste and religion into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/step-up-testing-to-detect-asymptomatic-patients-stalin/article31260938.ece
05 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||On radar||The Corporation has requested people who travelled from Delhi to Chennai on March 24, on flights operated by Indigo (6E-2403) and Air Asia (I5-765) to contact it and go into isolation for 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-radar/article31260929.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Priority for medicines||From medicines to parts for defibrillators, the Chennai Customs has handled a host of consignments since the beginning of the nationwide lockdown. Cargo aircraft containing medical gloves, masks, digital thermometers and critical equipment, among other things, arrive in the city, said Customs officials, adding that they provide urgent clearance for these items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priority-for-medicines/article31260925.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested||The Tiruvallur district police arrested six persons for breaking into two Tasmac shops and stealing alcohol bottles on Friday. Bottles from 16 shops will be shifted to community and marriage halls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested/article31260926.ece
05 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Contributions to relief funds||The Amalgamations Group, through Simpsons and Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited, has donated Rs. 5 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Amway India has contributed Rs. 25 lakh to CMPRF and Rs. 1 crore to the PM-CARES Fund. Ramco Cements has contributed Rs. 2.5 crore to CMPRF. TVS Motor and Sundaram-Clayton had earlier pledged Rs. 30 crore to support efforts. In addition, the group has committed Rs. 25 crore to the PM-CARES Fund and Rs. 5 crore to CMPRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-to-relief-funds/article31260930.ece
05 April 2020||chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ruling party’s contribution||The AIADMK on Saturday announced that it would donate Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to aid efforts to combat COVID-19. This would be in addition to the contribution of a month’s salary by CM and party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy CM and coordinator O. Panneerselvam, Ministers, MLAs and MPs. Besides, MPs would earmark Rs. 1 crore each and MLAs Rs. 25 lakh from their constituency development funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ruling-partys-contribution/article31260955.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Violations of curfew cross 65,000-mark||As many as 65,194 instances of violation of the COVID-19 curfew have been reported in the State so far. The State has been under a lockdown since March 24, after the authorities promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, prohibiting assembly of more than five persons and restricting movement on roads. Chennai’s count Until Saturday, the Chennai city police had registered 6,804 cases for violation of curfew. According to the police, the total number of violations across the State had reached 65,194, and 64,733 persons had been arrested for violation of prohibitory orders. As many as 58,440 FIRs had been registered at police stations and 48,945 vehicles had been seized from offenders. Fines to the tune of Rs. 18.29 lakh had been collected so far, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violations-of-curfew-cross-65000-mark/article31260943.ece
05 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Increase the number of testing centres: VCK chief||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Saturday urged the State government to increase the number of testing centres across Tamil Nadu and rope in private hospitals for the purpose. In a statement, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the State government should increase testing in Tamil Nadu in order to determine the extent of the spread of COVID-19 and prevent the progression of the pandemic from stage 2 to stage 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-the-number-of-testing-centres-vck-chief/article31260956.ece
05 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Conversion of train coaches into isolation wards nearing completion||The conversion of two train coaches into COVID-19 isolation wards at the Coimbatore Railway Station is nearing completion, an official said on Saturday. On Saturday, the railway staff members began sticking mosquito nets on the windows of one of the coaches. A total of 40 pieces, each measuring 760 mm in length and 705 mm in breadth, are used in the coach, the railway official said. A total of 20 toilets in the coach have been converted into bathrooms as per the instructions of Salem Division of Southern Railway. Due to the lockdown, there were a few delays in procurement of materials and finding tailors to stitch the mosquito nets, the official said. As many as 82 staff members are involved in the works at the shed in the railway station. However, physical distancing and precautionary measures such as wearing masks and gloves are being ensured. “Wherever possible, we are taking all precautionary measures,” the railway official said. The conversions works of both the coaches are expected to be completed by next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conversion-of-train-coaches-into-isolation-wards-nearing-completion/article31260970.ece
05 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air quality in Coimbatore improves during lockdown||With vehicular movement, except that of essential services, and operations of hundreds of industrial units came to a halt due to the national lockdown, the air quality in Coimbatore has improved. The air quality which was ‘satisfactory’ before the lockdown has now improved to ‘good’ according to officials with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The air quality in a place is ascertained based on the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). As per NAAQS, PM 2.5 (atmospheric particulate matter of less than 2.5 micrometre in diameter) of 60 micrograms per cubic metre and PM 10 (atmospheric PM of less than 10 micrometre in diameter) of 100 micrograms per cubic metre are the prescribed standard. On March 25, the average level of PM 2.5 in the air was 26.11 micrograms per cubic metre in the reading recorded at the continuous air quality monitoring station at SIDCO industrial area near Kurichi. The average PM 10 level in the air in the area on the same day was 21.96 micrograms per cubic metre. The national lockdown came into effect on March 24 midnight. On Saturday, PM 2.5 in the air was 22.35 micrograms per cubic metre while PM 10 level in the air was 16.34 micrograms per cubic metre as per the reading at 12.39 p.m. at the station. While the continuous air quality monitoring station at SIDCO is to monitor the air quality in industrial area, the one at Coimbatore Collectorate monitors air quality in commercial area. Another station at Kavundampalayam monitors the air quality in residential area. The level of Sulphur dioxide which was 7.02 micrograms per cubic metre on March 25 dropped to 6.30 micrograms per cubic metre on Saturday. Similar drop was also recorded in the cases of Carbon monoxide (0.5 milligram per cubic metre to 0.46 milligram per cubic metre) and Nitrogen dioxide (59.1 micrograms per cubic metre to 55.63 micrograms per cubic metre) in the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-quality-in-coimbatore-improves-during-lockdown/article31260979.ece
05 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls not allowed on narrow alleys in Coimbatore||Coimbatore Corporation has banned the functioning of meat stalls on narrow alleys and laid more restrictions to be followed during the lockdown period. In a release, the civic body said it had banned the dangling of meat in front of the shops and cutting of pieces in customers’ presence. The meat stall owners should keep ready cut and parcelled meat to be given to customers soon of their arrival. This was to ensure that no customer spent more than 30 seconds in front of meat shops. In the release the Corporation had asked meat stall owners to post a person with whistle outside their shops to regulate customers to maintain personal distancing norms. As for regulating the crowd on Sunday, the civic body had said to the extent possible, meat stall owners should take orders over phone and deliver at doorstep. If the Corporation officials were to find meat stalls crowded and owners not regulating them on Sunday, they would immediately seal the stalls the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-stalls-not-allowed-on-narrow-alleys-in-coimbatore/article31260968.ece
05 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MDMK wants neighbourhood clinics and hospitals opened||Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) has appealed to the State government to ensure that neighbourhood clinics and small hospitals remained open during lockdown period. In a communication, the party’s State Youth Wing secretary V. Eswaran said while the government had been taking steps to ensure availability of essential commodities like groceries and vegetables, it had done very little with regard to neighbourhood clinics or small hospitals. The closure of such health establishments affected people, particularly, those in the rural areas as they served diabetics, persons with high or low blood pressure, and persons who needed periodical care. The clinics or hospitals were telling their patients that they were closed and that the latter could go to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. How would they go all the way to the district headquarters hospital in the absence of public transport or when private transport was not allowed. Asking such persons to go to government hospitals would only add to the burden of the doctors fighting COVID-19. Therefore, the government should order all private health establishments, big and small, to start operations again, he appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-wants-neighbourhood-clinics-and-hospitals-opened/article31260975.ece
05 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||584 held for violating prohibitory orders||As many as 584 persons were arrested for violating the prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 of the CrPC in Coimbatore district on Friday. Coimbatore city police registered 106 cases and arrested 111 persons. Similarly, Coimbatore rural police registered 419 cases and arrested 473 persons. All the arrested were released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/584-held-for-violating-prohibitory-orders/article31260981.ece
05 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||43 test positive in Dindigul district||Amid tight security, 43 patients from isolation ward in the government hospital here were shifted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Doctors said 89 people from Dindigul district attended a religious conference in Delhi. After admission, their samples were sent in batches for COVID-19 testing. Out of 49 samples, 43 tested positive. Hence, they were shifted for effective treatment. As a precautionary measure, houses located in Begumpur, Thomayarpuram, Nilakottai, Oddanchatram, Natham, Palani, Taluk Office Road and Mounsupuram were cordoned off. Barricades were put up and entry barred to outsiders. Health officials said the objective was to contain the virus spread. There would be random testing of residents in the pockets for fever, cough and cold. Family members of positive cases were already quarantined. In a move to encourage people to stay indoors during curfew, the district administration announced gifts, including refrigerator, almirah, pressure cooker and saree, for winners. Speaking to reporters, Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan and Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said residents must take the curfew seriously and cooperate with officials. It was only in public interest that the Central and State governments announced the 21-day lockdown. Explaining the steps taken for home delivery of vegetables and fruits to residents, the Collector said grocery items worth Rs. 2,000 would also be delivered at their doorstep. Bags worth Rs. 1,000 were also available. If the people stocked for Rs. 2,000-worth items, the confinement could be longer. To encourage them to stay indoors, prizes would be offered. Besides the first, second and third prize, sarees would also be gifted to 108 people as special prize. The district administration had also begun sale of vegetables at Rs. 100 per bag. Each bag contained 11 items including onion, potato and curry leaves. While distribution of Rs. 1,000 cash relief to rice cardholders started through 1,035 ration shops in the district, Ms. Vijayalakshmi said as per the direction of the Chief Minister, it would be delivered at the doorstep of beneficiaries. In order to avoid congestion and crowding at ration shops, the Department of Cooperation had issued 100 tokens per day in each of the ration shops. People should stand only in the earmarked circle/box and strictly maintain social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-test-positive-in-dindigul-district/article31261168.ece
05 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘87 persons in isolation ward’||Collector C. Kathiravan has said that currently 87 persons were in the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, Perundurai, of which 28 were tested positive so far for COVID-19 here on Saturday. Addressing mediapersons here, he said that positive cases include three Thai nationals, one person who was in contact with them and 24 persons who attended conference in New Delhi. Also, four others who were tested positive were admitted to the E.S.I. Hospital in Coimbatore, he added. He said that 14 samples were sent to the laboratory and the report is awaited while 45 persons tested negative so far. “Two more samples from each person would be lifted and sent for analysis after which they will be declared as free of COVID-19”, he added. He said that a total of 922 persons, including 17 persons who had returned from Kashi yatra and 35 persons who were in contact with railway doctor were kept in isolation in the district and were monitored. “A total of 10 containment area was earmarked and essential commodities are supplied to families in the areas regularly” he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that wholesalers and retail vendors were asked to submit the list of required items for procurement, both from within the State and from other States, so that district administration will take steps to mobile the required commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/87-persons-in-isolation-ward/article31260960.ece
05 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Residents in containment zone seek essential commodities||Residents of B.P. Agraharam, a COVID-19 containment zone in the city, wanted essential commodities to be supplied to them regularly, here on Saturday. With positive cases reported from the zone, the area was cordoned off and shops were closed recently. On Friday, the residents informed the district administration over phone that there is no supply of essential commodities, including milk, and residents are put to hardship. They said that they did not receive even the essential commodities that should be distributed to them through ration shop. On Saturday, they waited till afternoon for supply of commodities and threaten to stage protest. Later, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer P. Murugesan, Tahsildar Parimala and other officials visited the area and held talks with the people. Residents said that milk, vegetables and other essential commodities were not available to them for the past three days as shops were closed in the area. Mr. Murugesan said that traders will be roped in to sell milk, vegetables and essential commodities in push carts and vehicles and assured of immediate action. He said that all the commodities will be available in their area from Sunday after which residents left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-in-containment-zone-seek-essential-commodities/article31260985.ece
05 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Future looks bleak for farmhands in Madurai district||Farm labourers in several parts of Madurai district have expressed relief over relaxation of norms by the State government in sanctioning work permits. But the paddy season has passed and, hence, only a few have found jobs in fruit and vegetable farms. During summer, they say, cultivation is done mostly along Alanganallur, Palamedu and Sholavandan, where raw banana, coconut, papaya, guava and sapota are grown. For instance, L. Kausalya from Thanichiyam in Alanganallur block works in a banana and coconut farm. At present, she earns enough wages to support her family of four. But if the markets do not open soon, her employers may not take up cultivation next season, leaving her jobless, she points out. Also, the produce often do not reach the market due to lack of transportation and get wasted, she rues. No wonder, the future looks uncertain to her. K. Mariselvam, who works in a guava plantation in Palamedu, contends that only a handful of landowners allow labourers to work in their fields in the wake of COVID-19. This reduces the opportunity to earn daily wage, he says. The promulgation order on Section 144 has been another dampener. Many labourers have to plead with police personnel stationed in their villages for passage. And efforts to prove that they are on their way to the fields result in loss of valuable time. “If we go late, someone else is engaged and I lose my day’s salary,” says N. Stalin Kumar, who earns around Rs. 400 a day. All India Agricultural Workers Union district president V. Uma Maheshwaran says farmers have to spend a lot of money on inputs such as manure, fertilizers and seeds. Without sales, there is no scope for cultivation or hiring labour. “Relief needs to come from the State government in the form of distributuion of more rations to the farmhands. At least a meagre amount of Rs. 500 must be given to each household to ease the burden. In this time of need, farmers are working to ensure that we have food on our plate. We too must help them,” he argues. According to a senior Agriculture official, rations are being provided in a systematic manner at PDS shops across the district to ensure that labourers have enough food to last them through the lockdown. An order from the State government clearly states that agricultural labour is now classified as essential services. “Hence, there must be no restrictions. Farm labourers must practise physical distancing. In case of issues, they can contact the block assistant director of the department,” the official adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/future-looks-bleak-for-farmhands-in-madurai-district/article31261179.ece
05 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Human rights activists write to NHRC on police excesses||As many as 48 human rights activists have written to the National Human Rights Commission raising specific concerns over cases of police excesses in the time of national lockdown announced in the wake of the spread of COVID 19. Apart from police excess, the activists also said that specific areas like the living conditions in judicial and non-judicial institutions, situation of the homeless and migrant workers and children in conflict with law should to be addressed. They said that the police, who risked their own health and safety in the present situation, have found themselves in an unexpected situation. However, they have responded with excess force and insensitivity. This high-handedness is a blatant human rights violation, the activists say. Urging the NHRC to take cognisance of this act by the police, they said that guidelines should be laid on par with the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI). There must be a complete prohibition of use of force, and if warranted, bare minimum force must be used. The Supreme Court has already taken suo motu notice of overcrowding in prisons and directed the States to address the issue, as it posed a threat in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. However, there was no information on whether physical distancing was maintained at the prisons or protective gear like masks, sanitisers and soaps are provided to the prisoners. High-level committees comprising the authorities concerned must take necessary steps. In the aftermath of the lockdown, millions of migrant labourers and their children have been left without shelter, livelihood and basic facilities. Many of them have been left stranded on the streets. A dedicated 24-hour helpline must be set up to help these people in distress. The State Human Rights Commissions must act as a link with the local authorities and to ensure that essential commodities reach the homeless. Joint working groups at all levels must be set up to monitor the situation. The NHRC must look into the issue of children in conflict with law. In the present scenario, the parents or guardians should not be forced to take back their children. Guidelines must be framed to ensure children are safe and in touch with their parents through video conferencing. Action must be taken against hate speech, to restore high-speed internet connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir and deploy National Disaster Response Force to co-ordinate the relief work, the activists said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/human-rights-activists-write-to-nhrc-on-police-excesses/article31261170.ece
05 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cloth masks come to the rescue of these women||Krishnan N. Subramanian, who runs Yellow Bags Foundation, an organisation that works towards creation of sustainable products by working with vulnerable communities, says when the lockdown was announced, he locked his unit in Sellur, provided money to his employees for their sustenance and sent them off. But he never knew that they’ll be back soon. Banks approached him to make cloth masks for their customers. Since the start of April, 20 women don masks themselves, work in shifts to make 2,000 double-layer cotton masks a day. They are available in a couple of colours. M. Chellamma, a worker, says she was worried about running the household with the loss of her and her husband’s income. Now she is relieved that regular income has been ensured for her at least. Another worker M. Sophia says they also have the satisfaction of making an useful product which is in shortage. Mr. Krishnan says physical distancing is maintained at the workplace with sewing machines placed in such a way. The workers also have access to soap and water which they ought to use while coming in and going out. “We also prepared ‘kashayam’ on a couple of days and share tips on safety precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 before they leave home by 6.30 p.m.,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cloth-masks-come-to-the-rescue-of-these-women/article31261175.ece
05 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Push-cart food vendors face the heat||Till a fortnight back, customers used to crowd around R. Ganapathy anna’s push cart near Central vegetable market at Mattuthavani to gorge on tasty food, says S. Gayathri, a regular customer. “Steaming hot idlis and dosas are served with different varieties of chutneys. They were as good as home-cooked food and available even till 3 p.m.,” she says. But, since the announcement of the 21-day lockdown, Mr. Ganapathy is without work and the only source of income for his family has stopped. “The past few days has been challenging to run my family of six with no source of income. We used to prepare food to feed the hungry, but now we are forced to ration the remaining foodgrains,” he says. Like Mr. Ganapathy, hundreds of push cart food vendors across the city, who depend on their daily earnings to run their families, are deeply impacted because of the lockdown. The push cart eateries are integral to Madurai’s food scene. These eateries, which are very affordable, help to feed hundreds of migrant labourers, bachelors and daily-wage earners. For J.S. Vimal, who sells idlis every evening at Tirunagar and earns Rs. 300 a day, the loss of earnings would affect his payment of college tuition fee. “Because of the lockdown, the houses where my mother works as a domestic help said they would not pay her for the next month. We are feeding ourselves with commodities distributed through public distribution shops. But I do not know how I will pay my tuition fee once the college reopens,” he says. Syed Jamal, who sells biriyani near Mariamman Teppakulam, says that the current crisis has forced him to borrow from local vendors, thus increasing his total debt. “We understand the gravity of the current crisis and hence will not set up shops as we protect ourselves and others, following the disease outbreak,” he says. But, the push-cart vendors will recover after the crisis, as they have always learned to remain positive, says Koil Kani, who sells vadas at S.S. Colony. “Uncertainty is part of our business and through the years we have learned the skill of sailing through it,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/push-cart-food-vendors-face-the-heat/article31261182.ece
05 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Stay indoors, avoid crowding’||In the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, residents must restrict themselves in coming outdoors and avoid visiting crowded places, said Collector T.G. Vinay here on Saturday. The Collector, along with Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, inspected the sales of vegetable bags at a gated community at Narayanapuram and the sales of vegetables at makeshift markets across the city. Mr. Vinay said that the civic body was taking various measures to prevent crowding of customers at markets and at the same time ensure that essential commodities were accessible to the residents. The Corporation had arranged for 35 makeshift markets across the city. Currently, only wholesale vendors sell vegetables at the Central vegetable market at Mattuthavani. All retailers undertake sales of vegetables at grounds of schools and colleges. Mobile vegetable outlets are operational at 100 wards across the city. With the help of volunteers, affordable vegetable bags and fruits bags are also sold through mobile outlets. The civic body has also released a list of 29 grocery shops that will home deliver products. Containment zones had been created near the houses of 15 people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the district. Health workers are regularly screening all the households who fall within the containment zones to check if they had symptoms like cough, fever or cold, he said. He distributed pamphlets to sensitise residents on safe hygiene practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-indoors-avoid-crowding/article31261177.ece
05 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two more test positive in Madurai||Two more persons from Kottampatti, who attended the religious conference in Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. This takes the total number of cases in Madurai district to 17. The duo, aged 48 and 55 years, attended the conference and returned on March 25. They were taken to Government Rajaji Hospital on Thursday and tested the same day. Collector T. G. Vinay said the containment plan began after the release of test results. A total of 3,676 households and 15,972 people from a hamlet near Kottampatti would be home quarantined. Their movements would be restricted. Cautioning residents against stigmatisation, he said there was little reason to panic as fatalities were not many. “In order to ensure increased awareness, we are distributing pamphlets.” Also, nine persons from Melamadai, P and T Nagar and Narimedu were diagnosed with fever on Saturday. “We received the information through passive surveillance. They have been prescribed medication and they are being monitored closely,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-test-positive-in-madurai/article31261180.ece
05 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Houses cordoned off||The immediate vicinity of residences of five persons who have tested positive for COVID 19 in Nagapattinam district have been cordoned off. Collector Praveen P.Nair, who inspected the areas on Saturday, said the houses were located within the Nagapattinam Municipal limits, Nagore and Poravachery. The Health Department has taken up a house-to-house survey in all these areas to identify persons with COVID 19 symptoms. Those with symptoms have been quarantined and were monitored by health officials. Steps were being taken to supply essential commodities to residents in the restricted areas at their door steps, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/houses-cordoned-off/article31261202.ece
05 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||An organisation’s gesture to nomads||A not-for-profit organisation which works with children of nomadic tribes has found a way to help the families during the COVID-19 lockdown by spreading awareness and mobilising funds to purchase groceries for them. Vanavil Trust was set up for children from the narikuravar and boom boom mattukarar communities who were devastated by the tsunami in 2004. A residential school has also been set up to educate their children. R. Revathi, founder, Vanavil Trust, told The Hindu that their first plan of action was to create awareness. “Since we work with young children, we had to teach them why we need to close the school, why they needed to go back home,” she said. Of the total school strength, 25 children remain at the school and are being cared for. While conducting the awareness campaign, volunteers found that nearly 500 families, of about right villages, mostly b oom boom mattukarar families are struggling to feed themselves. “Many of them still beg, even though the Collector is taking efforts to change that, and even those who have picked up different jobs are daily wage labourers, because of which income was cut off,” Ms. Revathi said. Through a fundraising page called Give India, a campaign to donate to these families began last week. A budget of Rs. 850 was drawn to purchase 10 kg of rice, 1 kg pulses, rava 2 kg, oil 1 litre, tamarind 250 grams, chilli powder 250 gms, tea powder 100 gms, sugar 1 kg and a packet of biscuits for the kids. “We set the quantities hoping to provide for two weeks worth of reason,” Ms. Revathi said. Nearly Rs. 8 lakh has been raised through the website as on Saturday. Purchasing and distributing ration kits were a difficult task amid the lockdown. “We are unable to buy the groceries in bulk. A decentralised system was then devised. A village member and a Vanavil school teacher walk to the nearby local grocery shop and purchase in small quantities,” Ms. Revathi said. “We buy only how much we can distribute in a day and give it out separately,” she said. The trust identified 231 conservancy workers who are also receiving the ration bags. “For them, we are also providing facemasks, gloves and soaps,” Ms. Revathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-organisations-gesture-to-nomads/article31261197.ece
05 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile Aavin sales outlet launched||A mobile Aavin sales outlet was launched in Pudukottai district on Saturday to provide milk supply to residents at their door step. Launching the outlet, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said that Aavin milk was also being sold through the mobile unit already launched by the Department of Cooperation for selling vegetables to residents. Earlier, Ms.Uma Maheswari inspected the Aavin milk processing unit at Kalyanaramapuram in the town and checked whether proper hygiene was being maintained. Employees at the unit were functioning wearing face masks and were following hand hygiene. Aavin has also ensured that milk producers maintain personal distancing norms while supplying milk to the societies. Similarly, customers should also ensure one metre personal distance while lining up to buy the Aavin milk sachets, she said. Earlier, speaking at a meeting traders representatives to review the supply of essential commodities in the district, Ms. Uma Maheswari made it clear that shopkeepers would be held responsible for customers adopting personal distancing norms in their shops. “It is the responsibility of shop keepers to ensure that their customers maintained one metre distance while waiting to make their purchases. Shops where the practice is not adopted will be sealed,” she said. She also encouraged the traders to take orders over telephone and deliver the goods at the doorstep of their customers. Owners and employees in shops should wear appropriate protective gear. They should frequently clean their hands using sanitisers or wash their hands using soap. In a statement issued here later, Ms. Uma Maheswari said that all persons seeking passes for travel for reasons of marriages, deaths or medical treatment can apply online at the district website:https://pudukkottai.nic.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-aavin-sales-outlet-launched/article31261201.ece
05 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||One more test positive in Salem||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Saturday. R. Balajinathan, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, said that the patient, a 48-year-old man from Mettur has attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. According to doctors here, the patient has been admitted to the isolation ward. Including the recent case, the total number of COVID-19 patients in Salem is nine and all of them are stable. According to officials, about 1,400 foreign nationals have been quarantined in Salem district, and 33 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference have been quarantied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-test-positive-in-salem/article31260964.ece
05 April 2020||Salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Collectors conduct meeting with religious leaders||District Collectors of Salem and Namakkal conducted a meeting with leaders and representatives from all faiths here on Friday. The officials briefed them the various disinfection measures carried out in the district to prevent the spread of the virus and advised them to adhere to all precautionary measures taken by the State government. The officials requested the representatives to avoid public gatherings at their places of worship. In Namakkal, Collector K.Megraj detailed the measures taken by the district administration. Mr.Megraj advised the representatives to create awareness among members of their faith to stay at homes and not to venture out unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-conduct-meeting-with-religious-leaders/article31260986.ece
05 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Temporary markets set up||Temporary markets for selling non-vegetarian edible items have been established under Thanjavur Corporation and Pattukottai Municipal limits. These temporary markets would function at the Temporary Bus Stand, Saint Bethuru High School premises, Kizhavasal, Palace Playground, Thilakar Thidal, Thenkizh Alangam Higher Secondary School premises, Corporation Ground, SNM Rehman Nagar, Aattukara Street, Saint Vyakula Matha Church premises, Kallukulam and at the New Bus Stand in Thanjavur Corporation and at Aanaivizhunthan Kulatheru, Azhagiri Market, Bus Stand and on the Travellers Bungalow premises in Pattukottai Municipality. Apart from this, meat shops would function in 84 places, chicken shops in 79 places and fish stalls at 73 places in 22 Town Panchayats in the district, according to a press release. The meat shops would remain closed on April 6 on account of Mahavir Jayanthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-markets-set-up/article31261194.ece
05 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Police use mobile App to track vehicles defying prohibitory order||The police have created a mobile application to track movement of motorists who defy the prohibitory order enforced in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. According to the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thanjavur Range, J. Loganathan through the application “144-Vagana Ethiri,” details about the movement of a vehicle would be fed and stored in a server. While doing so the motorist would be informed of his vehicle’s movement with date and time during the lockdown period and that the information was being stored in a server and would be retrieved when his unnecessary presence was noticed on the road subsequently and a warning would be issued. If he or she continues to defy the regulation, legal action would be initiated against them, he added. Welcoming the deployment of the application, the traffic and crime wing police feel that the application would help them check violators traffic rules and also track the movement pattern of the motorists which would be of immense help in case of crime detection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-use-mobile-app-to-track-vehicles-defying-prohibitory-order/article31261207.ece
05 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Anti-COVID drive fails to enthuse volunteers||The State government officials who were pulling all strings to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus, have been taken aback by the lukewarm response for their call for volunteers to assist them in the fight. In order to achieve isolation of families to check community transmission of the virus, a call was made well in advance for public participation in this exercise as every household had to be reached out to spread the message. Going by the previous incidents of natural calamities when non-governmental organisations stepped in to assist the government machinery in extending help to the affected people, the officials anticipated similar support. Participation of volunteers would also reduce the stress among the government staff who were carrying out simultaneous tasks of disinfection and identification of people with symptoms at places from where COVID-19 positive cases have been identified. In addition to this, initiatives such as door delivery of day-to-day requirements of people, especially in urban pockets, require additional hands as the government machinery had to concentrate on other aspects to check the spreading of COVID-19 virus. But much to their dismay, the angst over the world-wide current COVID-19 situation seems to have kept the volunteers away. Recently, Collector M. Govinda Rao at a press conference had said that the government machinery was in need of supporting hands but not many have responded to the call. At the same time, a few non-governmental organisations such as the one in Thanjavur town, the ‘Good Samaritan Social Service Trust’ have volunteered to assist the government machinery. It has come forward to take up door delivery of essential goods ordered by the public over phone with the help of its volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-covid-drive-fails-to-enthuse-volunteers/article31261192.ece
05 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Apply only online’||Thanjavur and Tiruvarur district administrations announced that hereafter only online applications will be entertained for vehicle pass to move out of the respective districts. Those who wish to apply for should apply through www.thanjavur.nic.inand www.tiruvarur.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apply-only-online/article31261210.ece
05 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfectant tunnel opened||Minister for Information and Public Relations ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju on Saturday inaugurated a ‘disinfectant tunnel’ in a makeshift vegetable market at the bus stand here. It was sponsored by Confederation of Indian Industries-Thoothukudi Chapter’s Young Indians wing and Venus Home Appliances. It will sanitise customers coming to buy vegetables. As they crossed the tunnel, the disinfectant would be sprayed on them.  Also, 1,000 sanitisers and 2,000 handwash were handed over to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on behalf of V.V. Titanium and News 7 ‘Thamizh Anbu Paalam’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfectant-tunnel-opened/article31261186.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Restriction on transport of essential items eased’||Restrictions on movement of inter-state and inter- district transport of essential commodities have been eased, said Collector S. Sivarasu. He told The Hindu here on Saturday that the farmers could transport vegetables and fruits by trucks or mini goods carriers. They could send their produce to other States too. Similarly, the traders and rice merchants could supply or source essential commodities through goods carriers. If they faced difficulties at borders and check posts, they could bring it to his attention. However, Mr. Sivarasu said that it had been brought to his knowledge that a section of drivers had been transporting workers, particularly on their return trips. Under no circumstances, they should transport workers from one place to another. Tough action would be taken against them. The owners of the trucks should adhere to the condition. Those who employed loadmen for loading and unloading loading essential commodities should follow personal distancing norms. They should ensure at least 4 feet distance between each worker. It should be applicable in the rice ,oil and dhal mills too. The workers would be given identity cards. The companies and mill managements could get the identity cards by submitting the workers details with the respective Revenue Divisional Officers. Mr.Sivarasu said that the State government had restricted the sale of essential commodities in markets and temporary vegetable markets. As per the order, the markets would be allowed to function only between 6 a.m. and 1p.m. They were earlier allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. He said that the it had been observed that under the guise of visiting markets, a section of the people continues to violate the prohibitory order promulgated under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedures. The curfew would be implemented strictly, Mr. Sivarasu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restriction-on-transport-of-essential-items-eased/article31261195.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||17 test positive for COVID-19 at Tiruchi GH||Seventeen patients, all of whom had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, tested positive for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Saturday. Samples of 53 patients who are under observation at the MGMGH were tested, Collector S. Sivarasu said. “The remaining 36 have tested negative but we will keep them under observation for 14 more days. They will be sent home after another set of tests are taken and the results show negative,” he said, while addressing reporters here on Saturday evening. Of the 125 patients currently under observation at the MGMGH, 120 belong to Tiruchi city and surrounding panchayat unions, while three hail from Karur and one from Erode and one from Thanjavur. The test results for 67 are awaited, he said. Officials of the health department traced the residences of all 120 patients under observation, which are in 50 localities within and outside the city, and have begun checks for symptoms of COVID-19 individually. A total of 469 doctors conducted checks for 1,13,947 individuals in 25, 586 houses. “None of them has any symptoms of COVID-19. We have asked them all to stay safe and stay indoors,” he said. The areas where the patients who tested positive reside will be cordoned off and termed as a ‘containment area.’ “The streets will be barricaded and no person will be allowed in or out, except in emergency situations,” the Collector said. The district administration has also requested 3,045 people, who travelled to other States and returned to Tiruchi to be kept under home quarantine. Mr. Sivarasu said that the MGMGH has acquired special equipment to test patients’ throat swabs on Friday. “From today onwards, test results can be given within six hours at the GH,” he added. Perambalur A 29-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, making him the first case of the infection in the district. The man, who has been under observation at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Perambalur, had travelled to the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. He returned to Perambalur and had been traced by health office and kept under observation. The patient is stable and responding well, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-test-positive-at-tiruchi-gh/article31261162.ece
05 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Academic schedule of colleges goes for a toss||Arts and science colleges are apparently in a fix as they are not sure if the requirement of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to complete 90 working days per semester could be complied with for this semester. The colleges had, more or less, completed a little more than 80 working days before the nationwide lockdown was enforced for containment of novel coronavirus. Seven to eight more working days are required for rushing through the last one or two units before proceeding with the model exam followed by the semester exam, college heads say. The academic schedule may not get unduly affected if the lockdown gets to a close on April 14, as already planned. In the event of the lockdown period getting extended, the schedule of exams, valuation and results could have an impact on the duration of the odd semester in the next academic year, they say. “There is indeed uncertainty about completion of the term days. There has been no precedent for the current situation. But, most of the working days for the term have been completed, finishing off the portions should not be a problem,” Rev. Fr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier, Principal, St. Joseph's College, said There are indications that some of the teachers are already making proper use of the lockdown period by engaging the students online for completing the remaining units, he said. A sense of hope also prevails that even if the exams are conducted late, the universities could make up for the lost time by expediting the valuation process. “It is possible to tweak the system a little bit to complete the valuation process in time. Scope exists for increasing the number of valuation centres and engaging more number of teachers for valuation duty by relaxing the eligibility criteria. For instance, instead of insisting on three years of experience, the universities could as well engage more number of teachers by permitting those with two years of work experience to take up the valuation duty”, S. Sekar, Principal, Meenakshi Ramaswami Arts and Science College, Ariyalur. The college heads are, nevertheless, very particular on resumption of working days only after the COVID 19 scare evaporates entirely. “It is very difficult to follow the personal distancing for one metre in colleges, be it in classrooms, exam halls or hostels. Even if there is further extension of the lockdown period, the situation the country is going through is quite understandable. As for institutions, the safety and well-being of students and teachers is of paramount importance,” Prof. Sekar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/academic-schedule-of-colleges-goes-for-a-toss/article31261203.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 die after consuming after-shave lotion||Three fishermen died in a hospital after reportedly consuming after-shave lotion as a substitute for liquor at Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district on Friday night. According to sources, M. Hasan Mydeen, 35, P. Anwar Raja, 33, and M. Arun Pandian, 29, of Fishermen Colony in Kottaipattinam, who could not get liquor because of the closure of Tasmac outlets in the wake of lockdown, had reportedly mixed after-shave lotion in a soft drink and consumed it. A little later Mr. Raja returned home. Mr. Mydeen and Mr. Pandian began vomiting. On seeing their condition, passers-by rushed them to the Government Hospital at Manamelkudi. Mr. Raja too was admitted to the hospital and died subsequently, the police said. Mr. Mydeen and Mr. Pandian died without responding to treatment. The Kottaipattinam police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-die-after-consuming-after-shave-lotion/article31260933.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police create awareness via WhatsApp||Alongside enforcing prohibitory orders to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the Perambalur district police have taken to social media to create awareness among public of the importance of personal distancing other precautionary measures to be taken at this juncture. The social media team of the Perambalur police is actively engaged in posting socially relevant memes containing COVID-19-related awareness messages in the WhatsApp groups ever since the prohibitory orders cam to be enforced last month. Police sources said the viral disease related memes were being posted every day in the WhatsApp groups which, in turn, get circulated rapidly to reach the general public. The police created a separate Whatsapp group with the newly elected village panchayat presidents of the district christened ‘Kaavalar – Oraatchi Mandra Thalaivar' group containing about 120 members, including field-level police officers. Besides this, the district police have another WhatsApp group with the Friends of Police, who are drawn from the general public, as members. The memes containing crisp messages are circulated to both these WhatsApp groups from where they get instantly shared with their friends circles, family members as well as to the general public, say police sources. The memes contain messages such as “Please stay in home and maintain social distance”; the importance of wearing mask while venturing out; strict adherence to the prohibitory orders issued in the wake of COVID-19 and avoiding unnecessary travel. “Step back, Stay Home, Slow the spread” is the message contained in another meme. One of the memes also sounds a warning about the action taken against those violating the prohibitory orders and the seizure of vehicles. The number of cases booked against such violators and the vehicle seized are also conveyed through the memes posted in the WhatsApp groups. The sources said COVID-19 related awareness memes were conceptualized and posted daily in the WhatsApp groups for instant reach to the general public. Some of the group members convey that they had shared the memes to their circles and general public, the sources added. The memes were also being shared by the social media team with the police station-level WhatsApp groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-create-awareness-via-whatsapp/article31261193.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Announcement on list of private hospitals to treat COVID-19 cases||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has announced that private hospitals would be allowed to treat COVID-19 cases after necessary checks are made by the district administration. The department has released a notified list of hospitals. The move comes after some patients desired to be treated at private hospitals, a release from the health department said. In Tiruchi, patients can approach five hospitals - Tiruchi SRM Medical College and Research Centre, G.V.N.Hospital, Devadhanam;, Maruti Hospital, Kauvery Medical Centre and Hospital, Thennur, and Sinduja Hospital in Manapparai. Perambalur: Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Medical College and Hospital, Lakshmi Nursing Home. Ariyalur: A.S. Imaging Centre and Hospital, and Ariyalur Golden Hospital Karur: Abirami Hospital, Amaravathi Hospital, and Apollo Logo Hospital Nagapattinam: Cohaj Hospital, Kameswaram; and Vishnu Hospital,Nagapattinam; Arun Priya Nursing Home, Shanthi Nursing Home and Ram Bone and Joint Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. Pudukottai: Muthu Meenakshi Hospital, Sree Durga Surgical Clinic and Research Centre, Ponnamaravathy, and Sree Vijay Hospital, Manamelkudi. Tiruvarur: Tiruvarur Medical Centre and Navajeevan Hospital Thanjavur: K.G. Multi-Speciality Hospital, Meenakshi Multi-Speciality Hospital, Anbu Hospital, Kumbakonam, amd Diocese of Thanjavur Society – Our Lady of Health Hospital, Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/announcement-on-list-of-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-cases/article31261199.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rush at meat, fish shops||An announcement from the district administration stating that meat and fish shops in the city would be shut on Sunday and Monday led to a rush at many meat shops on Saturday. The Collector said that the shops would be closed on Sunday to avoid rush and on Monday on account of Mahavir Jayanti. People queued outside meat shops on Saturday afternoon, after the announcement was made, to buy chicken, mutton or fish to prepare non-vegetarian dishes on Sunday. “When I heard about the announcement, I rushed to a chicken shop near my house. At least 50 people had crowded outside it. Had I come late, another 50 would have come,” M. Muthu, a shopper, said. Taking advantage of the situation, butchers sold meat at markedly high prices. Chicken was sold at Rs. 200 while mutton was being sold at Rs. 800 - Rs. 1000 for a kg. Some vendors rued that these uncertain times have wrecked havoc on their only day of business - Sunday. “Since fake news that coronavirus spreads through children began to spread, at least half of my customers stopped coming. On a good Sunday, I would sell to at least 100 customers. But these days, it’s a miracle if even 20 people come,” M. Faisal, a vendor said. Crowds were sparse at the Puthur fish market as stocks of fish arrive in the morning and are usually sold out by noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-at-meat-fish-shops/article31261198.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to deploy drone for disinfection operation||Tirunelveli Corporation is all set to use a drone to spray disinfectants along narrow streets and high-rise buildings. After a successful demonstration conducted in the presence of Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish here on Saturday, it has been decided to use it from Sunday. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said the drone, deployed by Chennai-based Cape Geospatial Services, would effectively disinfect high-rise buildings, important roads, narrow streets and other places. The battery-operated drone, which would be deployed between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m., was capable of spraying 10 litres of disinfectants in 10 minutes. “If necessity arises, we will increase the number of drones,” the civic body chief said. Around 1,100 conservancy workers had been deployed in anti-COVID–19 operations across the city, including Melapalayam, where 16 persons tested positive for the virus. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, S. Saravanan and Assistant Collector (Training) Sivaguru Prabhakaran were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-deploy-drone-for-disinfection-operation/article31261164.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘50% of house checks completed’||More than 50% of door-to-door checks in COVID-19 ‘containment zones’ has been completed in th district, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters here, she said 38 patients from Tirunelveli, two each from Tenkasi and Thoothukudi, who tested positive, were undergoing treatment at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH). Moreover, those who were in primary and secondary contact with the patients had been isolated and quarantined at home. The Collector said 650 beds and 25 ventilators were now available in TVMCH. Even as more testing kits were on their way, 400 kits were available in the hospital and the results would be available within four hours. On the problems being encountered by the doctors and the nurses taking care of COVID – 19 positive patients in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, the Collector said they would be provided with safe and reasonably comfortable stay on the TVMCH premises itself where proper food would be served to them. “We’ve roped in a private hotel here in Tirunelveli to serve them sumptuous and nutritious food as they are being quarantined since they are giving treatment to the COVID – 19 positive patients. Since 16 ‘positive’ patients were from Mepalalayam, the entire locality comprising 34,000 houses had been isolated for the door-to-door checks of people suffering from any ailment, especially viral infection. A similar exercise had been initiated in Kalakkad also as the area had three ‘positive’ patients. “About 50 % of door-to-door checks have been completed in these two areas. Moreover, Pattamadai, having 4,000 houses, has also been isolated for similar reason,” Ms. Shilpa said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-of-house-checks-completed/article31261165.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Stock up for six months, Collector tells traders||Calling upon traders to stock up essential commodities to last for the next six months, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on Saturday said the district administration would extend all possible help in the exercise. Addressing a meeting of private medical practitioners and representatives of traders’ associations at the Collectorate here, Ms. Shilpa said anti-COVID–19 operations, which were being carried out jointly by various government agencies, had yielded desirable results to some extent in the district due to cooperation from stakeholders, especially government officials and the public. While the home-quarantined people were being constantly monitored by doctors, their needs were taken care of by the administration through supply of essential commodities and medicines at their doorstep. Special teams had been set up to respond to calls from them, the elderly and the physically challenged. For others, the district administration had roped in several grocery shops for door delivery. Besides ‘uzhavar sandhai’, makeshift vegetable shops had been created at several places to ensure physical distancing. Since the police had lifted curbs on movement of trucks carrying essential commodities, there would be no problem in replenishing stocks in wholesale godowns. Hence, traders should focus on ensuring uninterrupted supply of grocery items to shops. The district administration would act as facilitator. ‘Supply ensured’ Trucks would be allowed inside the city, after consultation with police, to offload consignments required for at least the next six months. Steps had been taken to ensure continuous supply of rice from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and other places and edible oil from Erode. Hence, there was no need for panic over any shortage. The Collector appealed to the private doctors to ensure appropriate medical care to expectant mothers, dialysis and cancer patients and emergency cases. If they suspected patients of having COVID–19/physical proximity to those who tested ‘positive’, they must examine them only after wearing personal protective equipment. Also, they must record their names, address, mobile phone number and treatment required and refer them to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for appropriate medical investigation. The hospital had all facilities for medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stock-up-for-six-months-collector-tells-traders/article31261169.ece
05 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Swimmer donates prize money to relief fund||A 12-year-old boy donated the cash awards he won in swimming competitions to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for efforts to fight COVID-19 in Tiruppur on Thursday. R. Upanishanth visited District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan along with his parents and presented the demand draft for Rs. 3,000. “My father is a daily wage worker who sells T-shirts on roads,” the boy, who has completed Class VII in a private school, told The Hindu over the phone. He said that he had won the first place in district-level swimming competitions for the past three years and the State-level competition held in Madurai in February. “I watch the news on TV and saw many people who are suffering more than us right now,” he said, referring to the plight of migrant workers and homeless people amid the nationwide lockdown. His father C. Ravikumar said that he did not want to discourage his son after he proposed to donate the cash awards. “I instructed him to save all the cash prizes he was winning for future purposes such as paying school fees,” he said. Apart from Upanishanth, Mr. Ravikumar said that he has a younger son studying in Class I. A resident of Boyampalayam in Tiruppur city, Mr. Ravikumar said that he has been selling T-shirts on the streets of Boyampalayam on weekdays for nearly seven years and earns anywhere between Rs. 200 to Rs. 2,000 a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swimmer-donates-prize-money-to-relief-fund/article31260983.ece
05 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. must form all-party committee’||To discuss its preventive measures in the fight against COVID-19, the State government must from an all-party committee and convene regular meetings, said Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan on Friday. Speaking to mediapersons in Tiruppur, he said that he has seconded the demand made by DMK President M.K. Stalin to form a sarvakatchi kuzhu (all-party committee) because of the alleged violations made in the AIADMK government. Mr. Subbarayan further alleged that the State government fears scrutiny of its COVID-19 relief measures such as providing cash assistance and commodities in fair price outlets. Mr. Subbarayan also condemned the lack of invitation for MPs for review meetings held in the districts of Tiruppur and Erode. “It is a government meeting, not an AIADMK meeting,” he alleged. If the State government continues to not invite MPs for the district-level meetings on COVID-19, Mr. Subbarayan said that he will move the Madras High Court in this regard. The MP also condemned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his Friday video message asking the citizens to light candles, lamps and hold mobile phone torches for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on April 5. Mr. Subbarayan alleged that this activity has no “scientific basis” regarding its ability to help the country fight COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-must-form-all-party-committee/article31260976.ece
05 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man alleges discrimination in hospital||A man claimed that his pregnant wife was denied treatment and alleged discriminationary behaviour of a doctor on religious grounds in a private hospital in Tiruppur city. He made these allegations in a video, which went viral on social media on Saturday. District administration sources said that Health Department officials have initiated an inquiry into these allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-alleges-discrimination-in-hospital/article31260977.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Mini-power sprayers pressed into service||Mass spraying of disinfectant will be taken up in the municipalities and town panchayats in Tiruvaur district using mini-power sprayers, according to the Collector T.Anand. Disclosing this in a press release, the Collector said that 500-litre overhead water tankers containing the disinfectant solution will be mounted on mini-goods carriers and would be sprayed on the buildings and other public places in the municipalities and town panchayats using mini-power spraying machines. While 12 such vehicles were allotted, four each to three municipalities, 13 vehicles would be pressed into service in seven town panchayats. Apart from this the exercise of spraying disinfectants at public places such as bus stands, government offices and other places were being carried out every day, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-power-sprayers-pressed-into-service/article31261205.ece
05 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||19 being observed at quarantine facility||Nineteen persons have been kept under observation for any symptoms of COVID-19 at the institutional quarantine facility set up at the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur. They were part of a group of 44 persons hailing from different parts of Tiruvarur district and were in contact with 13 persons who had arrived from Myanmar to attend the New Delhi conference before reaching a worshipping place at Kovilvenni. Out of these 44 persons, 12 have tested positive for COVID-19 and were under observation at the Government Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital. The 19 persons were accommodated in individual rooms at the institutional quarantine facility set up at the CUTN premises and the remaining were directed to remain in house quarantine, official sources said. The Health Department in association with the Revenue Department took up mass screening of Kovilvenni and surrounding areas to enumerate people suffering from high body temperature or cough. A mass disinfectant spraying exercise was also taken up in these areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-being-observed-at-quarantine-facility/article31261206.ece
05 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Census points to presence of otters in Gudalur||The recently concluded wildlife census by the Forest Department has thrown up evidence of sizeable number of otters being present in the two forest ranges of Gudalur region. According to Forest Department officials, along with the forest staff, volunteers from the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam found evidence of movement of otters in a few swamps and wetlands in the two forest ranges, including scat at four different locations. B. Ramakrishnan, Assistant Professor in the Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology of the college, said there was evidence that the area was home to either the smooth-coated otter ( Lutrogale perspicillata ) or the Asian small-clawed otter ( Amblonyx cinereus). It was more likely that the Asian small-clawed otter was present. Both species are classified as “vulnerable” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) with poaching and loss of habitat being the main threat to their survival. “The findings of the scat indicate that these otters are present on the small patches of swamps, marshlands and pools of water, which points to a higher chance of the region being home to small-clawed otter,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan and added that more studies were needed to ascertain the species, their numbers and the threats facing them. Main threats “Marshes and wetlands in the Nilgiris have been disappearing due to a number of factors. In Gudalur, houses for tea estate workers is usually built near the marshlands as tea cannot be cultivated there while estates use pesticides which could poison the water and render the area uninhabitable for the animals,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. Studies on the quality of water throughout the year, the reproduction trends of otters as well as their prey base needed to be undertaken to help in their conservation, he added. Nonetheless, the presence of otters in Gudalur region should be a cause for cheer that in spite of severe anthropogenic pressures, the species continues to survive, experts say. Gudalur division District Forest Officer Sumesh Soman said that in the coming weeks, the department planned to set up camera traps to capture the images of otters to understand the species present in the Gudalur division and their numbers. “We hope that we can identify the marshes and wetlands that these animals depend on for their survival and take steps for their protection,” said Mr. Soman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/census-points-to-presence-of-otters-in-gudalur/article31260974.ece
05 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Essentials distributed to migrant workers||The Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington, distributed essential supplies, including meals, dry ration packets, sanitary items and drinking water to migrant and daily wage workers in Coonoor. The endeavour, undertaken as part of “Operation Namaste,” involved the distribution of items to 250 people who have been left with no food since the imposition of prohibitory orders across the state. “The endeavour under ‘Operation Namaste’ augments the effort of the state in its fight against COVID-19 and helps in preventing unnecessary movement of the migrant workers,” a press release from the MRC said. The cordite factory in Aruvankadu near Coonoor has begun producing hand sanitisers with the first batch being sent to Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. The truck containing the consignment was flagged off remotely by Hari Mohan, Chairman of the Ordinance Factory Board, from Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essentials-distributed-to-migrant-workers/article31260971.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,TAMIL NADU||No salary cuts for police, medical and sanitary staff||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced on Saturday that medical and health employees, police and sanitary workers would be paid full salaries during the lockdown imposed to control COVID-19, according to an official release. The Chief Minister stressed the need to pay full salaries to employees and workers who are on the frontline in the battle against COVID-19. He instructed the officials to take necessary steps. It may be noted that the government has ordered the deferment of payment of salaries, remunerations and pensions for March 2020, which are payable in April, to mitigate the impact of the lockdown on its finances. It will be in force till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-salary-cuts-for-police-medical-and-sanitary-staff/article31260818.ece
05 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cementing bond with workers, community in these trying times||Much before the COVID-19 broke out, Ramco Cements, based out of Tamil Nadu, adopted social distancing for its employees and began disinfecting its vehicles and health condition of over 10,000 truck drivers checked for coronavirus symptoms. And after the pandemic spread, the company has rushed to the aid of various State governments with an assistance totalling Rs. 7.5 crore so far. It was sheer inquisitiveness of its Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer A.V. Dharmakrishnan who came to know how COVID-19 was unfolding in China through his neighbours in Chennai. And the immediate fallout was the pre-emptive step of asking his employees to maintain social distancing. “As a first step, we asked them to avoid public transport. They were asked to use their two-wheelers. Some of them also used their cars to ferry fellow employees to office and back home,” he said. The company also encouraged this practice with additional allowances for them. It was easier for the company to maintain social distancing at its five cement production plants and five grinding units across Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal as most of the employees lived nearby. Trucks disinfected All the trucks coming in and going out of the factories were completely disinfected. Health check- up was conducted on all the truck drivers. They were tested for symptoms like fever, cold and cough. “Only healthy drivers were allowed to move out with a medical certificate that they were free of COVID-19 symptoms,” Mr. Dharmakrishnan said. Even as these exercises were going on voluntarily, COVID-19 breakout was reported in Kerala. It was then the administration started focusing outside the factory. “We were worried about the police personnel on various roads on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. We distributed 1,500 personal protective equipment to them, as they were more vulnerable to meet meet people infected with the virus,” he said. Then came the nation-wide lockdown. This brought to fore the practical problems faced by the migrant workers. “We provided shelter, provisions, healthcare and also daily allowances. We wanted to help them keep their spirits up, especially in the absence of transport to return home,” Mr. Dharmakrishnan said. The migrant workers employed by contractors were also taken care of. The company has taken care of about 8,000 workers, including 6,000 from north India. Meanwhile, when the pandemic became worse in India, Ramco Cements helped the local administrations under its corporate social responsibility initiative. Groceries were distributed to the under privileged living around the factories. It also helped set up isolation wards in two places in Tamil Nadu and one in Odissa. Besides, it supplied cots, beds, infra thermal scanners, three-layer masks, gloves and sanitisers to the governments, “So far, we have made donations to the tune of Rs. 7.5 crore to different governments. We have donated critical medical equipment like 30 para monitors, full body suits and N95 masks. It was made possible as we started procuring them before the demand surged. These were critical in fighting the deadly virus,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cementing-bond-with-workers-community-in-these-trying-times/article31261184.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||74 new cases take Tamil Nadu’s total to 485||Tamil Nadu's COVID-19 count went up to 485 on Saturday with another 74 persons — 73 of them connected to the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin, Delhi — testing positive. While 73 cases include those who had travelled to Delhi and their primary contacts, the remaining person is a man from Chennai. Of the 73 persons, four were contacts of those who had travelled to Delhi and tested positive. A woman from Chennai, a woman and a man from Namakkal and a woman from Theni — all contacts — have tested positive. The other patients — all participants in the conference — were from the following districts: 18 from Ranipet, 17 from Tiruchi, 10 from Tiruvallur, five from Chennai, three from Cuddalore, two each from Kallakurichi, Karur, Madurai, Tiruppur and Vellore, and one each from Namakkal, Perambalur, Salem, Theni, Tirunelveli and Villupuram. With this, the number of persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 with a single source of infection (the Nizamuddin conference) has increased from 364 to 437. Of the 1,200 persons who attended the conference from Tamil Nadu and have been traced, samples were lifted from 1,097. Details on the exact number of persons who attended the conference and tracked would be provided soon, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said. She added that samples were lifted from another 43 patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). “We are closely monitoring all SARI patients. We will come up with guidelines in a day or two on testing,” she said.  Study to be taken up With the emergence of a large cluster of COVID-19 cases from one source, the Health department has roped in the National Institute of Epidemiology in the city to take up an epidemiological study immediately. The institute has 48 community health epidemiology post graduates who are involved in the study, Dr. Rajesh said. “We have got a large number of cases from a single source. The study will look at how the disease is spreading,” she explained. On the ongoing containment plans, she said so far, a population of 29,63,623 and 7,23,491 households had been surveyed. A total of 11,270 field workers were engaged in the containment plan. As on date, Chennai had the most number of COVID-19 patients — 88. Dindigul, with 43 patients, came next, followed by Tirunelveli and Erode with 37 and 32 patients, respectively. Thirty-one districts had COVID-19 patients, according to details in the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A total of 1,681 persons were admitted to isolation wards of hospitals in the State. Another 102 passengers from highly affected countries were in quarantine facilities. A total of 90,541 persons were under home quarantine. Of the total 4,248 samples tested till date, 407 were under process. Eight COVID-19 patients have been discharged so far.  We are monitoring all patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. We will draft guidelines for testing soonBeela RajeshHealth Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/74-new-cases-take-tamil-nadus-total-to-485/article31260953.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||People who returned from Kerala served food at Erode||As many as 15 persons, including four children, who were returning from Kerala and proceeding towards their native village in Villupuram district were served food by the district police here on Saturday. Three men, six women and four children from Vadamalai and Tirukkoyilur areas were working at Mallapuram in Kerala for the past few months in farmlands. After the nationwide lockdown was announced, they felt difficulty in getting food items and their employer asked them to return to their native. They reached Palakkad on foot on Friday and boarded a vehicle that dropped them at Arachalur in the district. On Saturday afternoon, they reached Erode city on foot by covering 23 km and policemen intercepted them and held inquiries. They narrated their tale and Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan ordered food to be served to them immediately. They were also given masks, gloves and biscuit packets and a medical examination is to be done after which they would be sent to their native villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-who-returned-from-kerala-served-food-at-erode/article31260962.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sensitising parents of children with special needs||These are testing times for every one of us, especially for children with needs. Paediatric occupational therapists are allied health professionals who focus on their resumption of age-appropriate functions (occupation), be it eating, drinking, sleeping, talking or playing. During these challenging times, our children with needs are more likely to be disorganised because of the sudden halt of their routines. A change in routine leads to deprived stimulus, which might hamper their development. This may cause anxiety and distress even for the parents who may run out of ideas. Self-engagement is always a concern for children with autism, slow learners and those who have praxis issues, since doing any new task is a bother. So, parents are encouraged to facilitate engagement in a more therapeutic way, using home resources. The following are some of the suggestions to be incorporated along with your given programme: Hand hygiene is of paramount importance during these days, but it is extremely challenging for our children since they tend to mouth their hands, objects, frequently. So use of tethers, chewy tubes, blowing toys, constant supervision, sanitising their toys, objects and teaching them hand washing techniques through physical cuing, visual scheduling (drawing simple icons in a step by step sequence) will be of great help for visual learners. Parents can lead by example like doing their regular chores of waking up in time, carrying on morning rituals without any delay or postponement. The above said modelling drives our children to continue their morning chores without any fuss even if they don’t have to go out. Explaining the current situation in short, simple and in clear phrases to nonverbal children with autism helps them reduce unwanted anxious behaviour and facilitates the desired behaviour; this technique is called social stories. A social story makes them ready to anticipate the day’s new schedule and makes them to acclimatise it imaginatively. Morning chores such as brushing the teeth, toilet, and bathing can be facilitated through modelling, physical cues, verbal prompts and including various positive reinforcements over a period of time, since these can well become part of their ritual. Sensory stimuli Allowing children to observe the kitchen during meal preparation gives those rich sensory stimuli through visual, touch, olfactory (smell), and gustatory (taste) inputs. Precautionary measures for hot, sharp objects have to be factored in. Mothers can teach children with real objects in more real life situations like naming, identifying vegetables, fruits, colours, feel different textures of cereals, and smell various spices. This can be followed by food play/ messy play during their lunch time to desensitise touch, smell, and taste, visual over responses. Avoid showing the child a mobile phone while feeding, instead go to the balcony and point to things. Parents can gradually substitute junk foods, with homemade organic and healthy snacks. Best time for stories Early evening are the best time for listening to stories from their grandparents or picture book stories which encourages good sitting, listening skills and expressive language. Playing music over speakers or wear noise cancelling head phones helps them to counter auditory over responsiveness and organises them. Letting loose to make funny movements and shake a bit relaxes them immensely. Dads can take over evening sessions by taking them to the balcony/terrace to water the plants, to encourage loads of sensory motor activity such as running, jumping, hopping, cycling, climbing, balancing, and ball skills. Children who don’t have access to terraces can arrange furniture for an obstacle course and climb over/crawl under to do picking and dropping tasks. This will help with the much-needed proprioceptive input. A cotton sari hammock suspended from ceiling hooks can be provided to ensure vestibular inputs so as to calm, and facilitate muscle tone especially for children with tonal imbalance, Down syndrome and Cerebral palsy. Table top activities such as drawing, colouring, pattern writing, grid diagrams, coping different geometric figures and shapes will integrate visual and motor components which are the prerequisites for academics and writing skills. Sleep hygiene is very essential, so start with a warm bath, followed by warm food, bed time stories, lullabies in a less-distracted, cozy environment to put them to sleep. The above mentioned ideas are general guidelines and not individualised and parents are encouraged to follow their respective Occupational Therapist-given sensory diet for your specific needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sensitising-parents-of-children-with-special-needs/article31260941.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare providers try to source PPE on their own, alumni chip in||On March 29, the State recorded its first positive case of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in a healthcare provider — a 29-year-old railway doctor. This has reiterated the need for providing adequate safety gear not only to the healthcare providers in the front line of COVID-19 management but also to those posted in outpatient wards, in order to reduce the risk of infection. While the State government has been maintaining that Tamil Nadu has adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), N95 masks and triple-layer masks for its healthcare providers, a section of doctors, postgraduates and interns of a number of government hospitals have been finding ways to source the kits on their own. In some institutions, the alumni have chipped in, and are trying to source the kits. “One group of specialists of a government medical college hospital placed orders for PPE using their own money as they are on the front line of COVID-19 care and were not willing to take the risk. In this situation, the PPE are sold at exorbitant prices, but still, they went ahead and purchased them,” said a doctor. Inquiries with a number of doctors, PGs and interns found that while the availability of PPE in many of the isolation wards of government hospitals was better than before, much more improvement was needed in terms of steady availability and quality. “In fact, those posted in the casualty and outpatient departments still do not have access to most of the safety gear. Many of us have purchased masks on our own. It is important to provide PPE kits even to those posted in OP as they are also at risk of infection and could end up transmitting infection to patients,” another doctor said. “The PPE supplied to most of the doctors and staff posted at isolation wards are similar to the HIV kits. This will not provide the much-needed protection from COVID-19,” he added. Another government doctor said the government could at least get units to manufacture kits similar to the “hazmat” suits. Alumni of a number of government medical colleges were trying to do their bit. “We have pooled in money for about 250 to 300 PPE for PGs, and also for the incoming interns. The government should encourage factories such as those in Tiruppur to manufacture the kits by providing raw materials,” an alumnus said. Another senior doctor said that they tried to get aprons, masks and shoe covers for doctors posted in OP but these were out of stock in most places. “It is important that our healthcare providers are provided adequate protection as they are on the front line of tackling COVID-19),” he said. Officials of the Health department said Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation had taken over the supply of PPE and N95 masks to ensure daily distribution to all hospitals from its warehouses. Every hospital has been asked to take daily stock instead of ad hoc supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-providers-try-to-source-ppe-on-their-own-alumni-chip-in/article31260957.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shops selling essentials to shut by 1 p.m., says CM||“Infectious diseases such as these can affect anyone. People are advised to treat COVID-19 patients and their families with kindness and love,” said Mr. Palaniswami. The community leaders should co-operate in ensuring that COVID-19 patients or those who had come in contact with them are isolated in their homes or in government-identified centres under the supervision of the government, he added. Private hospitals Mr. Palaniswami said that he had instructed district collectors to ensure the reopening of private hospitals. “Private hospitals have been advised to treat COVID-19 patients without discrimination and utmost care. They will also make vehicles available to bring patients,” he said, adding that select private hospitals had been identified to treat COVID-19 patients. The notified private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment would be allowed to take in patients who wished to get treated in private facilities. He further said that those who tested negative should be immediately sent home or to isolation facilities. Daily needs The Chief Minister also announced that COVID-19 patients and families who may be suffering mental health issues due to self-isolation would be given access to psychologists via mobile applications. “The daily needs of isolated families will be taken care of by the State government and essentials will be delivered to their homes,” he said. Also, isolation wards could be created in schools and colleges owned and run by religious community leaders. He said that NGO workers had been recruited to assist in providing essential products to senior citizens.   Private hospitals have been advised to treat COVID-19 patients without discrimination and utmost care. They will also make vehicles available to bring patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-selling-essentials-to-shut-by-1-pm-says-cm/article31260949.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Students win first prize||A rapid COVID-19 diagnostic kit prototyping idea by two students of Bannari Amman Institute of Technology (BIT) in Sathyamangalam bagged them first prize at the national level “Fight Corona IDEAthon” that was organised by the All Indian Council for Technical Education and Ministry of Human Resource Development Innovation Cell on March 27 and 28. M. Karthika and K. Abinayaa, third year students, guided by Rajaseetharama and Tamilsevi from Bioprospecting Research Lab of Biotechnology department of the institute proposed an idea on “A rapid, portable COVID-19 RNA Extraction kit coupled with in field detection module that bagged them first place in the “Student Innovator” category. Innovative solutions from students, innovators, researchers and educators from across the country were submitted online of which 20 teams were selected for the final round held in three categories. They will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 50,000. Team members said that even though many diagnostic techniques are available, it is difficult to use those in such a pandemic condition because of its complexity and time consuming technical procedures. Taking this into consideration the team proposed this idea. The team is working on further prototyping this product for testing its efficacy and accuracy levels and soon will proceed to the next level, in terms of serving the society, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-win-first-prize/article31260963.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Injured elephant being treated||A 15-year-old tusker with a hind leg injury took refugee in a village near KRP Dam on Saturday. The elephant was spotted in a mango farm at Thudukanahalli village. The animal was found poised at a single spot unable to rest its left hind leg, in the mango farm of Mariappan. The Forest Department was alerted and a team has since camped in the area tending to the animal. Forest veterinarian Prakash had administered two darts containing pain relief to the elephant. It was also being fed bananas, and various other fruits along with water. The elephant is suspected to have been part of a migratory herd spotted at Melumalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-elephant-being-treated/article31260965.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco’s plea to public||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has urged people not to panic about switching off lights on Sunday night. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling on people across the country to switch off their lights for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on Sunday to show their solidarity with those battling the COVID-19 crisis, Tangedco has advised domestic consumers to only switch off their lights and operate all other electrical instruments during those nine minutes. In a press release, Tangedco said all precautionary measures had been taken to “face any power situation” on Sunday. The senior officials and staff of the operation and maintenance departments across the State have been asked to be available on Sunday for immediately addressing any electricity-related complaints, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedcos-plea-to-public/article31260944.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 4  Coimbatore  No. ofpersons in hospitals: 135 (Male-111, Male child – 3, Female – 20, Female child – 1) Govt. hospitals: 125 Private hospitals: 10 Positive: 33 (old cases)  excluding one Tiruppur case   Results awaited: 43 Negative: 34 Samples to be collected: 20  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 1,114 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 61 Samples lifted: 45 Results declared: 10 Negative: 7 Positive for COVID-19: 3 (Two confirmed on Saturday. Admitted at ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Results awaited: 35||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31260980.ece
05 April 2020||Bagalkot,KARNATAKA||A baffling death in Bagalkot||The Bagalkot district administration is struggling to solve the mystery of how a 75-year-old resident of the city, who died on Friday, got infected with the novel coronavirus despite having no travel history or contact with anyone who travelled abroad. There have been suggestions that the source might have been his son, who arrived from Bengaluru about 12 days ago but was asymptomatic. Though doctors tested the man for COVID-19, his results came back negative. The district authorities have cordoned off an area of about half a kilometre around the residence of the deceased. Going by a theory that more such persons might be living within that radius, the police and officials have now started visiting every house to look for persons who might have infected the elderly man. Since the deceased was an oil merchant, officials believe it is possible that some of his customers might have been carriers of the infection. Spreading their dragnet even to the neighbouring Vijayapura district, the police have found that the son of the deceased had travelled with six persons from Vijayapura in a car. While those six travelled to Vijayapura, the son continued his journey till Bagalkot. Anupam Agrawal, Superintendent of Police of Vijayapura, said, “Wereceived some information from the Bagalkot police asking us to track those people down. We have traced and isolated all of them. Their swab samples will be sent for testing.” Meanwhile, Bagalkot Deputy Commissioner K. Rajendra said the authorities were trying to find everyone who met the deceased person in the past 15 days. “We have urged people to voluntarily come up and reveal their details, which will help us prevent the spread of the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-baffling-death-in-bagalkot/article31260916.ece
05 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Efforts on to contain virus spread in Belagavi||Following three positive COVID cases in Belagavi district on Friday, officials are taking steps to contain the spread as per established protocol. All the three patients are in the quarantine ward in the designated hospital and none of them have any symptoms. One is a 70-year-old man who has no co-morbidity conditions. The other is a 20-year-old man, and the third patient is a 26-year-old man, doctors said. Buffer zones of a 3-km radius have been set up around the localities of the three patients, Kasai Galli, Bilgundi, and Hire Bagewadi. In Bilgundi and Hire Bagewadi villages, gram panchyat officers used village heralders to announce that a resident had tested positive. The police have erected barricades outside the camp area, which includes the military cantonment and Bilgundi village, that connects Belagavi to Maharashtra, and also around Bagewadi village that connects Belagavi to Hubballi-Dharwad. The police have also cordoned off Darbar Galli, Kasab Galli areas as the Tablighi Jamaat Shoora mosque is situated there. The area around the Tablighi Jamaat Nizamuddin mosque near Ramteerth Nagar has also been cordoned off. But in several other villages, residents have blocked access to their villages out of fear of the spread of the virus. The work of tracing the primary and the secondary contacts is nearly completed, and officials have detected 37 primary contacts of the three persons. Throat swabs of these persons have been sent for testing. Officers say they have been able to trace the travel history of one person. Patient number 128 travelled to New Delhi from Belagavi on February 12. He then left for Chekada village in Uttar Pradesh. Officials suspect he has been infected during travel or at the railway station. He returned to Belagavi on March 21 and reached his village by a van driven by his cousin. Patient number 126 left Belagavi for New Delhi on March 4 and returned to Belagavi on March 19. He had participated in the Markaz meeting. He returned to his job in a slaughterhouse in Belagavi. His primary contacts have been traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-on-to-contain-virus-spread-in-belagavi/article31261045.ece
05 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Case against pet shop owner||The city police have booked a case against a pet shop owner after a video of him making his pitbull dog pull a car went viral. Roshan Mantero, from Vaibhav Nagar in Belagavi, had allegedly put up a photo of a dog pulling a car as his status on social media. This was brought to the notice of Sonali Sarnobat, member of the Karnataka Animal Welfare Board. She inspected the shop and realised that he was trying to sell that dog after proving that it was powerful. Dr. Sarnobat and Apoorva Chikmath of Belgaum Animal Rescue and Care (BARC) lodged a complaint at the APMC Police station. “This is gross cruelty towards animals. Such persons with a sick mindset should be punished,” Dr. Sarnobat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-pet-shop-owner/article31261044.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown effect: LPG distributors see increase in domestic refill bookings||Panic buying during the lockdown has not been limited to sanitisers, soaps and food essentials. Since the 21-day lockdown was announced, the three LPG companies – Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL) and Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) – have recorded an increase in the number of refill bookings. This has been attributed to panic caused by rumours of shortage. Authorities of all three companies were quick to allay fears of shortage and said that the bottling plants were working in a full-fledged manner. Conceding that demand for domestic cylinders had seen an increase, the authorities stated that there was enough stock available to meet the demand. Manoj Gupta, Karnataka State Head (LPG), BPCL, told The Hindu that before the lockdown, the average refill bookings were around 30,000 a day. However, after it was enforced, the number had touched nearly 36,000 a day. On the other hand, the demand for commercial cylinders has seen a sharp decline. Mr. Gupta said the daily demand for commercial was around 150 tonnes a day and for domestic, it was 500 tonnes a day. “Ever since the lockdown, many hotels and restaurants have shut down, while a few are operating their kitchens for takeaways. Over the past two days, there has been no demand for commercial cylinders,” he said. D.L. Pramodh, Executive Director and State Head, Indian Oil, and State Level Coordinator for Oil Industry, Karnataka, said that the bottling plants of all companies were operating and nearly 95% of the transport trucks were reporting for duty. That apart, the turnout of deliverymen ranged between 85% and 87%. “We have had cases where the customer has booked for a refill even though the two LPG cylinders are still full. We have no option but to cancel the booking,” an official pointed out. The rate of delivery of LPG delivery had improved. With no traffic on the streets, the number of deliveries per day had increased. The refill booking restriction, which was earlier 21 days, had been reduced to 15 days now. “There is no need for panic, neither is there any need for customers to approach the distribution agencies. We want all our customers to stay at home,” the official said. Sanitisation of cylinders As per protocol, the cylinders are being washed and sanitised at the plants, said Mr. Pramodh. Training has been given to truck drivers, cleaners and deliverymen, who have also been provided with sanitisers, masks and gloves and asked to maintain social distancing, officials said. “The deliverymen have been specifically instructed to not enter any home and leave the cylinder outside the door. Many housing societies are allowing delivery of cylinders only up to the main gate,” he said and added that the companies were all promoting digital transactions. Mr. Pramodh added that there was no shortage of fuel (petrol and diesel). “The demand for petrol and diesel had also seen a significant drop. Petrol/ diesel stations are operating across the state, albeit with skeletal staff,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-effect-lpg-distributors-see-increase-in-domestic-refill-bookings/article31260868.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. announces ration to non-cardholders at PDS shops||With the demand for food items increasing from poor families during the lockdown period, the State government has announced that below poverty line (BPL) ration cards are not required for the poor to avail themselves of foodgrains at 20,000-odd PDS ration shops. The Food and Civil Supplies Department has been asked to provide foodgrains for free to BPL families in the State irrespective of whether they have the BPL cards or not. To take stock of supplies of essential commodities and delivery of services at healthcare facilities, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday chaired a meeting with Ministers, State MPs, MLAs, MLCs, and Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Bengaluru and explained to them the steps taken by the government to fight COVID-19. A decision to supply essentials to non-ration card poor families was taken following complaints that the poor have not been receiving essentials. A large number non-ration card holding poor families hail from other States, pointed out the official press release. On Indira Canteens “We have stopped free supply of food at Indira Canteens because the facility is being misused. But we will restore it if the situation demands,” the Chief Minister said. He said half litre of KMF milk was being supplied to each of the poor families, construction workers, and slum-dwellers in the city. Addressing a press conference after the meeting, Mr. Yediyurappa said fruits and vegetables were made available through a network of 480 HOPCOMS and mobile HOMCOPMS. On COVID-19 cases, he said all private clinics have been instructed to keep open. About 650 isolation beds are available in government-run hospitals. Meanwhile, in a tweet, he said: “I request the employees not to cut salaries of their maids, servants, drivers who are not able to work due to practice of social distancing. Your compassionate gesture will support the poor and needy to overcome these hard times.”  I request the employees not to cut salaries of their maids, servants, drivers who are not able to work due to practice of social distancing. Your compassionate gesture will support the poor and needy to overcome these hard times.B.S. YediyurappaChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-announces-ration-to-non-cardholders-at-pds-shops/article31260911.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||There are 9,239 migrant workers in 200 relief camps, High Court told||The State government has told the High Court of Karnataka that 200 relief camps have been established in various districts and within the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike limits for migrant workers in view of the COVID-19 lockdown and 9,239 such workers were housed in these camps as on April 2. The government has also pointed out that 565 food camps have been established across the State and 1,16,871 needy persons were provided with food during the lockdown period in these food camps as on April 2.  Inspection ordered  Meanwhile, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, before whom the data of relief and food camps were submitted on Friday, directed the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSAs) to conduct inspection of some of the relief camps in every district. The Secretaries of the respective DLSAs or their volunteers will have to visit some of the relief camps on random basis to ascertain the condition of these camps with reference to infrastructure and facilities provided to the migrant workers, the Bench said. The Bench also directed the government to provide district-wise list along with all details of the camps set up for accommodating the migrant workers to the Secretaries. The inspection reports will have to be submitted to the High Court by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority after collecting data from the DLSAs. Rented shelters It was pointed out to the court on behalf of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties that the organisation has received complaints from approximately 10,718 migrant workers, who are staying in their rented accommodations or accommodations given by their employers/industries in various parts of the State, that they have not received ration as per the norms of lockdown. However, it was also pointed out on behalf of PUCL that when details of such workers were communicated to the district administration of Mangaluru, immediate efforts were made to provide ration to many. The Bench asked the PUCL counsel to submit the list of 10,718 migrant workers to the government for taking steps to provide ration. The government has also informed the court that 36,629 migrant workers were given shelter and food by the employers/industries where they are working.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-are-9239-migrant-workers-in-200-relief-camps-high-court-told/article31260902.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Essentials in stock, residents heave sigh of relief||Around 10 days into the lockdown, essentials appear to be back in many areas, resulting in people heaving a sigh of relief. Soon after the 21-day lock down was announced, citizens started queuing up in front of department stores, grocery outlets and supermarkets to stock up on essentials. Due to the panic buying, many items were soon out of stock. But now, residents in most parts of the city said they have been able to access essential items, including fruits and vegetables, easily. Vendors can now be seen across the city selling vegetables in mobile vans or in pushcarts. At Davis Road, basic staples, such as dals and cereals, were available. In Channammanakere Achukattu and Malleshpalya, mobile vans make rounds selling vegetables while announcing the rates through the loud speaker attachment. To help farmers and citizens, the government had also decided to allow vending of fruits and vegetables at the milk booths of the Karnataka Milk Federation across the city. HOPCOMS outlets have been doing better than usual. A.S. Chandre Gowda, president, HOPCOMS, said, “There has not been any problem with either supply or with transportation. We have given each of our staff in working outlets and mobile vans Rs. 500 to buy masks, gloves and sanitisers. We have directed all the outlets to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene and keep the outlets clean,” he said. At an outlet, an employee said most citizens complied with the guidelines. “We have also distributed masks and sanitisers to people who are working in the supply and transport chain,” he added. Several grocery shops that had earlier downed their shutters have reopened. A resident of Chandra Layout said the local grocery shop had opened after being closed over the last few days. Even the supermarket nearby was allowing limited number of customers, apart from operating for limited hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/essentials-in-stock-residents-heave-sigh-of-relief/article31260869.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A struggle to track the needy||Over 10 days into the lockdown period, has it been a wild goose chase for the government in identifying the underprivileged, including migrant workers, who require a helping hand? It appears that the effort to track down and distribute food or dry rations has been seriously hindered by lack of authentic data on their numbers. Neither the government nor trade unions have data as to how many migrant workers continue to remain in Bengaluru after the first few days of exodus. While the distribution of prepared food has been meagre, the supply of dry ration has to pick up pace on ground, multiple sources confirmed. Meanwhile, top government sources involved in relief work said that supply has been based on calls received at the Aahara call centre or by manually identifying locations that are scattered across the city. An app, launched on Friday, will track the demand on real time basis, the senior official said. While internal discussions in the Labour Department has estimated that about 3 lakh people are in need of help, efforts are still on to identify exact locations and numbers, those aware of the planning of logistics told The Hindu . “Even we do not know how the 3 lakh figure was arrived at,” a source said. Explaining the problem, multiple trade union leaders said that migrant workers could not be organised due to their presence in various locations and language barrier. This issue was not addressed earlier on by the Labour Department, they alleged. The result has been a logistical nightmare for those involved. In one instance, multiple calls for prepared food that came from the same location resulted in excess food and wastage. Adding to the confusion, in some locations, labour camps have been covered by multiple agencies — local resident welfare associations, trade unions, corporates, institutions, or political leaders. The government is not in the know of this web of agencies involved. Meanwhile, the plan to distribute 1 lakh dry ration hampers, consisting of 13 essential items each, to the needy families is yet to gather pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-struggle-to-track-the-needy/article31260912.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC, SWR bookings to resume from April 15||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and South Western Railways (SWR) have clarified that advanced booking in buses and trains will be open from April 15. However, officials also say that it should not be taken as an indication that the lockdown would be withdrawn. “As per the present order, the lockdown period ends on April 14. Hence, the bookings are available from April 15. In fact, we had never blocked the entire booking system. Only bookings from March 24 to April 14 were cancelled,” a KSRTC official said. “The Advanced Reservation Period (ARP) in the Railways is 120 days. Hence, the booking in Railways was never closed except between the lockdown period from March 24 to April 14. Once the it ends, we should naturally begin our operations, unless notified otherwise,” a SWR official said. Helpline   In order to contain the spread of COVID-19 and ensure that emergency services and transportation of essential services are not affected, the Transport Department has stated a 24/7 helpline in all the transport offices across the State. This will ensure that not only the transportation and supply of essentials from the government is seamless, but also by private players like NGOs is not affected or interrupted. For more details or complaints, contact 080-2226698 or 9449863214.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-swr-bookings-to-resume-from-april-15/article31260873.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Waking up late||A part of the problem was that the government initially did not consider the Labour Department “essential”. It was later that the government woke up to the importance of the department and allowed it to function through an order. “Even now, many officials and employees across the State have not come on ground,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waking-up-late/article31260907.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gandhians to observe fast||Moved by the plight of migrant workers who walked several kilometres to reach their homes and were left hungry on the way during the COVID-19 lockdown, hundreds of Gandhians across the country have decided to observe April 10 as “national fasting day.” The day-long fast is to “atone the sins committed on migrant labourers after the lockdown was announced”, said theatre and social activist Prasanna. The national fasting day call has been given by the Gram Seva Sangha. “The day will see participants introspect what has gone wrong in the current system and how to improve the village economy,” he said, adding that he would start the fast from Monday. There will be no meetings or gatherings to mark the day, but it would be observed by participants “wherever they are and whatever they are doing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gandhians-to-observe-fast/article31260908.ece
05 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools turn temporary shelters||Homeless persons, migrant workers and those stranded in the city owing to lack of private and public transport are being rehabilitated by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). After the lockdown was announced, the number of people in the 10 homeless shelters saw an increase, making it difficult for the civic body to accommodate additional persons and maintain social distancing. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Welfare) S.G. Raveendra said it is using a few schools to temporarily house the additional people. That apart, 214 marriage halls and choultries will house those in need. This was to ensure that the shelters are not crowded. “We are providing three meals every day to all persons in the shelters. That apart, temperature of all inmates is checked every day while we also closely monitor their health,” he said. “Most importantly, we are ensuring that social distancing is maintained. All of them have been provided masks and asked to maintain personal hygiene and wash hands regularly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-turn-temporary-shelters/article31260870.ece
05 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Power grid staff on high alert for Sunday night blackout||The call for a nine-minute blackout on Sunday evening by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show solidarity with the fight against COVID-19 pandemic has put those managing power grids across the country on high alert as they are concerned about possible power outage that may be caused due to sudden drop in power supply. Inter-Office Communication has already been issued by the Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd. (PGCIL) to explain about the special duties and vigil to be maintained on Sunday night during the blackout period as it is likely to cause sudden power requirement during the said period and subsequently, may lead to sudden increase in system voltage at various power stations leading to outage of grid element due to constraints. The circular elaborated on the need for precautionary measures to be taken to prevent any problem. The circular advises all power station in-charge officials and RTAMC (Regional Transmission Assent Management Centre) operation staff to be on high alert with required support staff. The circular also stresses on the extreme vigil needed to be maintained and proper liason with the National Transmission Asset Management Centre (NTAMC) As per the circular, all station in-charge/senior-level executives are required to be available at their respective station control rooms and work places to take care of any contingency and also for smooth cooperation with respective RLDCs (Regional Load Despatch Centres) Emergency gang/tools and plants if required may be tied up in advance. It also emphasised the need for maintaining precautionary guidelines for COVID-19 with regard to social distancing and protective gear. As per authorities, the sudden reduction in demand of power might lead to high voltage surge in the power grids and precautionary measures are required to be taken to prevent disruption in service. Already several messages are in circulation over social media over the damage such a blackout might cause to the power grids and also possible damages at households due to voltage surge. Some posts are also appealing to people to not switch off electrical equipment at one go. These posts also request the people to not to switch off electrical equipment like fans, refrigerators and others to prevent sudden drop in power. General Manager of Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) J.L. Belagali said instructions had already been issued to the operation staff on the need for switching off the capacitor banks during the blackout period. Mr. Belagali clarified that only in very rare case damages might occur as the call was only for switching off lights and power consumption for the same was very less. “However, we advise against turning off the main switch in bigger apartments. Our staff will contact office-bearers of residents association and educate them in this regard,” he said. Because of the lockdown, power consumption has come down in the HESCOM limit like elsewhere in other ESCOMs. Meanwhile, KPTCL is also likely to take steps to educate consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-grid-staff-on-high-alert-for-sunday-night-blackout/article31261037.ece
05 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Lockdown violators forced to do yoga||Kalaburagi police personnel forced those people who were found violating the lockdown and roaming around without a vaild reason to perform yoga here on Saturday. The police also seized around 30 bikes and asked the drivers to perform different asanas on the street. The police also distributed candles for free to them and instructed them to follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s advice to light the candles on Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-violators-forced-to-do-yoga/article31261048.ece
05 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three more test positive in Dakshina Kannada||With three more positive cases of COVID-19 being reported in Dakshina Kannada, the number of active patients under treatment in the district rose to 12 on Saturday. According to a bulletin from the office of Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner and a bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Bengaluru, a 63-year-old female, who is a native of Udupi district, tested positive. She has a travel history of returning from Dubai to Mangaluru International Airport on March 21. It said that a 43-year-old male from Thumbe in Bantwal taluk and a 52-year-old male from Thokkottu in Dakshina Kannada also tested positive. They had attended the Tablighi event in Delhi from March 13 to March 18. All the three persons have been admitted to the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. Of 12 patients under treatment in Mangaluru, four are from Kerala, one each from Uttara Kannada and Udupi districts, and the remaining six are from Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-more-test-positive-in-dakshina-kannada/article31261041.ece
05 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Reducing congestion in Mangaluru jail||Following a direction by the apex court to take action for reducing congestion in prisons, the District Level Committee overlooking affairs of the Mangaluru District Prison has initiated action to reduce the number of inmates. As on Tuesday, there were 310 inmates in the Prison, which has the capacity to hold about 210. Majority of the inmates were undertrials. A committee found 29 inmates facing charges of offences punishable for seven or less years were eligible for interim bail. Of the 29, the committee granted bail to 12 persons on Tuesday. After they complied with the formalities, the prison staff arranged vehicle to drop them to places they reside in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reducing-congestion-in-mangaluru-jail/article31261043.ece
05 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Double ration sought for tribal families||The COVID-19 lockdown has had little effect on tribal communities living on the outskirts of Nagarahole National Park and elsewhere in Mysuru region. While the migrant workers across the country were left in the lurch in the initial stages of the lockdown, the tribal people were relatively better off. For, they receive ration through the tribal development schemes launched by the Government of India. Each tribal family receives 60 eggs, a 500 gm sachet of Nandini ghee, one litre edible oil and cereals under the tribal development scheme of the Centre. This is in addition to free rice under the Anna Bhagya scheme of the State government. The need of the hour is employment opportunity, which is not easy to come by, said M.B. Prabhu, who works for tribal rights and upliftment. “The food and nutritional issues have been taken care off and the lockdown – like demonetisation in 2016 – has had no affect on their lifestyle. But absence of work has left them bereft of cash for other necessities,” Mr. Prabhu said. But there are concerns that the provisions to tribals may not last for a month unlike in the past and could at best be adequate for 15 to 20 days, said Sreekanth, founder of Development through Education (DEED), an NGO working for tribal empowerment. He said because of the lockdown, anganwadi kendras have been shut and children are eating at home while the menfolk are also at home due to lack of work. Therefore, the government should double the ration till the crisis abates, he added. Lockdown total Meanwhile, the lockdown is total in the tribal colonies unlike in urban areas. Veeranahosahalli in Hunsur has closed the entry gate to the village bordering Nagarahole National Park. They have posted their own personnel as security guards to man the gates. They have taken a decision not to go out for work for the time being. Earlier, 17 vehicles would ferry workers daily from the hamlet to the coffee plantations in Kodagu. There are nearly 10,000 Adivasi families in the district, including the Soligas, Yaravas, Jenu Kurubas, and Betta Kurubas.  Because of the lockdown, anganwadi kendras have been shut and children are eating at home while the menfolk are also at home due to lack of work.SreekanthFounder, Development through Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/double-ration-sought-for-tribal-families/article31260906.ece
05 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ramdas claims lighting candles will kill virus||S.A. Ramdas, Mysuru’s BJP MLA, has invited ridicule by claiming that coronavirus will die when candles are lit on Sunday night. While making an appeal to the people to light candles at 9 p.m. on Sunday as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Ramdas said the viruses in the house will be “drawn towards the candle and die from the heat just like insects fly towards light to burn themselves to death.” He claimed that his observations were “scientific”. He also sought to lend a “scientific” angle to the Prime Minister’s call for clapping on April 22. He claimed that the virus would be “killed by the heat generated in the body by clapping and through the sound.” Mysore Science Foundation, an organisation working towards promoting scientific temper, regretted such misinterpretations of the Prime Minister’s appeal. Secretary of the foundation G.B. Santosh Kumar said the Prime Minister’s call to clap or light candles was aimed at instilling confidence in the minds of the public. Unfortunately, efforts are being made to misinterpret the same for promotion of superstition and obscurantism, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramdas-claims-lighting-candles-will-kill-virus/article31260904.ece
05 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Two more cases of KFD||Two positive cases of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, have been reported in the district since Friday. On Friday, a 24-year-old woman from Gundugadde village in Tirthahalli taluk tested positive for KFD. She was an agriculture labourer and was suffering from fever and ache in joints since March 30. A 34-year-old farmer from Sindhuwadi village in Tirthahalli taluk tested positive for KFD on Saturday. He was suffering from high fever and fatigue. Both patients have been admitted to the Government JC hospital in Tirthahalli for treatment. Following this, the residents in the villages located in the radius of 5 km around Gundugadde and Sindhuwadi are being vaccinated against the disease. Officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare have conducted meetings in both the villages cautioning the people against venturing into the forest.  With this, the total number of positive cases in Shivamogga district since January 1 has risen to 129.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-cases-of-kfd/article31261038.ece
05 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Residents stage flash protest||Demanding title deeds and ownership rights over government land on which they have constructed houses, residents of the slum adjacent to the Tunga canal near Krushi Nagar locality in the city staged a flash protest on Saturday defying lockdown. The incident took place when Dheeraraj Honnavile, member of Shivamogga City Corporation, visited the slum to distribute free milk to the residents, who denied the milk. Vinobha Nagar police assured the gathering that they would apprise the district administration of their problems after the lockdown period, following which the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-stage-flash-protest/article31261046.ece
05 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Village accountants to distribute foodgrain kit to poor workers: DC||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Saturday that village accountants and tahsildars will provide foodgrain kits to poor workers without ration cards affected by the lockdown in Udupi district. Speaking to presspersons after receiving 1,000 foodgrains kits from the Sri Krishna Mutt/temple for distribution to poor workers, Mr. Jagadeesha said many philanthropists and temples were providing kits to the poor. They were also giving food packets to 4,000 migrant workers stranded in the district. The administration was coordinating the distribution of foodgrain kits and food packets for the last 10 days. Once the philanthropists stopped, the administration would step in to continue giving food packets to the workers and the needy. The administration had enough funds, he said. To a query, Mr. Jagadeesha said three persons from the district who had tested positive for COVID-19 were recovering in the designated hospital. As many as 1,965 of the 2,000 persons from the district who had returned from foreign countries had completed home quarantine period recently. Of the remaining 35 persons, 28 would completie it on Saturday, while seven persons would complete it on Sunday. The administration will start seizing vehicles of persons found moving in the cities and towns without any reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/village-accountants-to-distribute-foodgrain-kit-to-poor-workers-dc/article31261042.ece
05 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||50 inmates to be released on parole in Vijayapura||The government has directed officials of the District Central Prison to release around 50 convicts/undertrials on parole as per the direction of the Supreme Court. Informing this at a press conference on Saturday, Superintendent of Police Anupam Agrawal said that 50 persons would be released on parole. “ The process of issuing parole has started. After completing legal formalities, they will be released,” he said. The apex court issued the order for decongesting prisons to prevent the spread of COVID-19. As per the direction, only those who have convicted for not more than seven years or those who could get maximum of seven year imprisonment for their crime have been considered for parole. Mr. Agrawal added that to decongest the district prison here, only 425 inmates had been kept while 175 had been sent to different jails. Some 100 inmates had been shifted to Hildalga prison in Belagavi, 50 to Bagalkot district jail and 25 to the sub-jail in Jamkhandi taluk of Bagalkot district. “To ensure that the inmates do not get the infection, visitors to the prison have been banned,” Mr. Agrawal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-inmates-to-be-released-on-parole-in-vijayapura/article31261040.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kannada actor, friend injured as their car rams pillar of underbridge||Kannada film actor Sharmiela Mandre and her friend Lokesh sustained serious injuries when their high-end car rammed into one of the pillars of the underbridge in Vasanthnagar in the wee hours on Saturday. According to High Grounds traffic police, they received information from the police control room around 3 a.m. When they reached the spot, they found only the car at the spot and a man standing nearby claiming that it belonged to him. After some time, they got a memo from Fortis hospital on Cunningham Road stating that two persons identified as Sharmiela Mandre and Lokesh had been admitted and had given a statement that they met with an accident in J.P. Nagar in south Bengaluru. “We don't know how the car hit the pillars of the underbridge if the accident had taken place in J.P. Nagar,” said an investigating officer, adding that they are also trying to ascertain whether they were under the influence of alcohol. The police suspect that the duo have given a false statement to misguide the investigation. The duo did not have a pass to be out during the lockdown, which is a violation of the lockdown prohibitory order, the police added. As for the man at the spot who claimed that the car was his, the police said he could be a friend of the accused; he refused to divulge his name or show his driving licence. He left the spot when the police explained the seriousness of the offence since a pillar of a railway underbridge had been damaged and he could be detained for giving a false statement, . Later in the day, the police said that Mandre and Lokesh got themselves discharged from Fortis hospital saying that they will take further treatment from their family doctors. The police were awaiting the doctor’s permission to record their statement. Efforts are on to trace them. A case has been registered in High Grounds traffic police station. The car has been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-actor-friend-injured-as-their-car-rams-pillar-of-underbridge/article31260872.ece
05 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||4-year-old cuber lays out a spread of games||These are hard times for all, especially children. Keeping children engaged and happy during the extended lockdown period is of utmost importance. From online learning, indoor games, reading stories, screen activity, crafts, to name a few, children have a lot at their disposal to make time fly and feel at ease. Playing a small part in ensuring young minds remain active is Niah’s Ark, a YouTube channel of Niah Sanjith, a four-year-old cuber from Thathampally in Alappuzha who first shot to fame after becoming the youngest cuber to solve three types of Rubik’s cube in 2019. Niah, who started the YouTube channel more than a year ago, is using much of the lockdown period to make and post videos of fun-filled learning, brainteasers, games and puzzles that improve creativity in kids. “It is important to keep children engaged during the lockdown. In Niah's case, she loves to play board games and solve puzzles. We used to post videos on the YouTube channel and the number of uploads has increased in the last month or so. This way Niah remains engaged along with helping other children to acquire different kinds of skills,” says Tixy, mother of Niah, who shoots and uploads the videos. 22 videos As of Thursday, her YouTube channel has 22 videos. The videos of different games and puzzles are focussed on improving concentration, spatial insights, mental rotation, reasoning, planning and observational skills in children. The videos are accompanied by a description on the show, its positive impact and Niah’s own experience with the game. Dr. Tixy says her daughter has started to make a small income from the affiliated marketing in the YouTube videos. In March 2019, Niah, then three years and 232 days, solved variants of puzzle — 3x3, 2x2, and Pyraminx in record time at a cubing competition organised by the World Cube Association. She then entered the India Book of Records and Asia Book of Records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-year-old-cuber-lays-out-a-spread-of-games/article31261157.ece
05 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One tests positive in Alappuzha||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday. Officials said the man from Chengannur attended the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. “He reached Alappuzha railway station on March 23. From there, he went to a relative’s house in Kottayam in a private vehicle. He returned home and remained under observation till April 3. On Friday, he was taken to the Taluk Hospital, Mavelikara, when he showed symptoms of COVID-19,” said an official. Officials said the patient would be shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. This is the third COVID-19 case to be reported in the district. The first person, a Wuhan returnee, was cured in February. The second case, a Gulf returnee, who tested positive on March 24, had tested negative for the disease after several days of treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-tests-positive-in-alappuzha/article31261158.ece
05 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||CPI(M) to seek explanation from MLA||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) will seek an explanation from its Kayamkulam MLA U. Prathibha who allegedly made derogatory remarks about mediapersons. Recently, some Democratic Youth Federation of India activists published posts on social media criticising the MLA for not playing a proactive role in her constituency during the lockdown. In response to certain news reports on such posts, the CPI(M) MLA, in a video posted on Friday, said: “Irrespective of male or female, it is a shame to report fake allegations. One or two people have made certain comments on social media. Mediapersons have picked the individual views and given it as the opinion of the youth organisation. It will be better if these journalists seek some other job.” Ms. Prathibha said: “There are poor women on the streets who sell their bodies for a living. The journalists should wash the feet of such people and drink the water. I am saying this with great pain.” CPI(M) Alappuzha district secretary R. Nazar observed that she should not have made such comments. “We have decided to seek an explanation from the MLA,” Mr. Nazar told The Hindu .  Following widespread condemnation of the remarks, Ms. Prathibha in a social media post said she had not intended to insult all mediapersons. “My response was to those who targeted me without any consideration,” she said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-seek-explanation-from-mla/article31261138.ece
05 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Restrictions eased at Bavali check-post||The district administration on Saturday eased restrictions at the Bavali check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border. A meeting chaired by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran here on Saturday decided to allow people from Bairakuppa in Mysuru of Karnataka with critical health issues to cross the border for better treatment at hospitals in Wayanad. The meeting directed the Drugs Control Department to conduct raids at medical shops to prevent charging of exorbitant rates for medicines. It directed officials to discharge people who had been staying in COVID-19 centres after quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-eased-at-bavali-check-post/article31261113.ece
05 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Total lockdown at ten local bodies in Kannur||The Kannur district administration ordered total lockdown and isolation of people in seven grama panchayats and three municipalities on Saturday after noticing an increase in COVID cases in those areas. Of the 52 cases in the district, 37 are in those areas. District Collector T.V. Subhash issued the orders as per Section 4 of Kerala Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19 Regulations, Ordinance of 2020 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The panchayats are Mokeri, Chokli, Payam, Chittariparamba, Kathirur, Pannyannur, and Kottayam Malabar, and the municipalities are Panoor, Koothuparamba and Thalassery. In most of these places, more than two cases have been reported. Stringent steps The Collector said the police would ensure stringent measures to avoid unnecessary movement and gathering of more than three people in public places and shops. The local bodies should ensure home delivery of essential items. The Health Department should do home visits of people in isolation and submit special reports daily to the district magistrate. The police should do routine check-up of people in home isolation. The Fire and Rescue Services should disinfect the areas and houses. He advised the people to call on 94000066063 in case of grievances. Meanwhile, a 25-member medical team, including doctors, nurses and nursing assistants from Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, is leaving for Kasaragod on Sunday as part of the efforts to convert the Kasaragod Medial College Hospital into a dedicated COVID care hospital. The government had earlier decided to convert the academic block of the hospital into a clinical block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-lockdown-at-ten-local-bodies-in-kannur/article31261141.ece
05 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MSMEs seek Central package of Rs. 5,000 cr.||Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the State have sought a relief package of Rs. 5,000 crore from the Union government and a Rs. 2,000-crore package from the State government to overcome sectoral setbacks in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) has appealed to the Union Minister for MSMEs, Nitin Gadkari, to consider setting aside a sum of Rs. 5,000 crore to fight the distress caused by the pandemic. The association said industries in Kerala had suffered two consecutive floods in 2018 and 2019, and the spread of COVID-19 pushed the sector further into dire straits. Working capital Under the circumstances, the government must “impress upon banks and other financial institutions to sanction additional need-based working capital without insisting on additional collateral security,” said the industries association. If financial institutions did not relent, the government should step in and extend assistance as a grant to cover the interest burden for the next 12 months, the entrepreneurs added. They also appealed to the government not to collect penal interest or levy penalty on delay in payment of GST, ESI, EPF and other taxes and licence fee. The association also wanted the government to stop all revenue recovery proceedings against MSMEs for six months. In their appeal to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, MSMEs sought a Rs. 2,000-crore relief package out of the Rs. 20,000-crore intervention announced by the State government. The association demanded a 12-month moratorium on repayments to banks and other financial institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msmes-seek-central-package-of-rs-5000-cr/article31261109.ece
05 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, a ‘pineapple challenge’ to provide succour to farmers in State||The Association of Agricultural Officers Kerala and the Kerala Pineapple Farmers’ Association have joined hands to launch a ‘pineapple challenge’ to address the issue of large quantities of unsold harvest in the wake of COVID-19 spread. Around 1,200 tonnes of pineapple reach the Vazhakkulam main market, near Muvattupuzha, on a daily basis. The commodity reaches Vazhakkulam from Thodupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom, Koothattukulam, Perumbavoor, Angamaly, and Muvattupuzha. Though the flow of harvest has thinned a little, farmers are grappling with a problem of plenty. No driver “There is no way to transport fruits to destinations outside the State as isolation and quarantine requirements for drivers are strict,” said an official on Saturday. He added that no driver was available for transporting fruits to major markets. Considering the situation, farmers and farm officials have decided to deliver ‘A’ grade pineapple based on a minimum order of 100 kg at a price of Rs. 20 per kg. The official said the price was attractive given the current market rate and appealed for a helping hand for farmers. According to him, a few farmers are being forced not to harvest the fruit as there is no opening to sell the harvest. Farm officials have appealed to traders, voluntary bodies, residents’ associations, and residents of apartment complexes to place orders on April 5 and 6 for the fruit to be delivered on April 7 and 8. The condition is that the minimum order should be for 100 kg. Payment should be made on delivery. The associations have also appealed to people to avoid crowding or large gatherings during the distribution of fruits. Those interested may contact 99958-20686, 98956-91687, 94959-50275, or 99951-55346 to place orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-a-pineapple-challenge-to-provide-succour-to-farmers-in-state/article31261123.ece
05 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic blurs boundaries||In tune with the bonhomie and camaraderie that was on display between the Chief Ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu over the past two days is a song for the tough times rustled up by Malayalam lyricist Rafeeq Ahammed and iconic playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. The song, Orumichu Nilkkenda Samayam ... [Time to stay together...]. which was released by the singer on his Facebook page on Thursday, has become a hit with Keralites and Tamils alike. It was on Friday that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described as ‘siblings’ the people of Kerala and Tamil Nadu while rubbishing reports about Kerala mulling closure of borders between the two States. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami warmly responded to Mr. Vijayan on Twitter, hoping that the companionship would grow. Mr. Vijayan recalled that Kerala and Tamil Nadu were bound together by culture, fraternity, and language. “It is those who cannot understand this deep bond that spread false information. We can stay together and overcome these challenges,” he responded in Tamil. The Tamil-Malayalam bonhomie evident in the song was a result of SPB’s mission to come up with COVID-19 songs in many Indian languages, says Rafeeq Ahammed. “He said he was spending time at home singing and posting COVID-19 songs in different languages. I’m at home too. So, I wrote the lyrics and sent it to him a few days ago,” he says. SPB had sung COVID-19 songs in Tamil, Telugu, and Kannada before setting Mr. Ahammed’s lyrics to tune and crooning it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-time-to-stay-together/article31261111.ece
05 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A one-stop portal for services during lockdown||People quarantined at home may now find an unlikely ally in an automated chat Bot to get an update on their health status thanks to a web portal launched by Ernakulam MLA T.J. Vinod. Shortly after its launch by actor Mammootty through his Facebook page on Saturday, the portal, www.careekm.com, has attracted a steady stream of users. “Our office has been getting a slew of inquiries on a variety of subjects since the lockdown, prompting us to launch such a portal with the technical assistance of a young bunch of software developers in the city,” said Mr. Vinod. Touted as a novel Artificial Intelligence-driven solution for epidemic rehabilitation, Kochi-based Strokx Technologies, which developed the portal, cites the chat Bot facilitating health evaluation as the biggest enabling tool of the portal. IMA guidelines “On giving the age of the user, symptoms, previous medical history, the Bot will help link up those suspicious of the epidemic with a group of government doctors. “The service has been modelled along the guidelines issued by the Indian Medical Association and premier health care institutions,” said T.J. Abhijit, chief executive officer (CEO) of the company. The portal also throws up a comprehensive graphical route map of the user by enabling the user to provide detailed inputs ranging from the mode of transportation to locations. Those under psychological stress during the lockdown will be directed to the counselling services made available by the MLA. “Besides, there is a whole section, including quiz, flash games and videos, for engaging children locked up inside their homes,” said Mr. Abhijit. The portal also provides important information like the timing for different kinds of ration cardholders and location of supplies under the public distribution system. Information on medical shops, grocery shops and restaurants offering door delivery services is also available on a single click.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-one-stop-portal-for-services-during-lockdown/article31261116.ece
05 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plantation workers quarantined||A few workers from Tamil Nadu employed at the cardamom plantations in the Idukki were quarantined on Saturday after they tried to enter the high ranges through illegal forest routes. The workers were exploring alternative routes after the police authorities in Idukki stepped up surveillance along the check-posts at Kumily, Cumbom Mettu and Bodimettu. A senior police officer at the Kumily station said that 12 persons, mostly employed at the plantations and a few who had taken small parcels of land on lease for cultivation, tried to enter the high ranges through the forest points in Tamil Nadu from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plantation-workers-quarantined/article31261145.ece
05 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||More hotels may be reopened||A few hotels and eateries here that had downed shutters following the restrictions imposed in view of the COVID-19 situation are set to reopen, with the hope that relaxations in operational timings announced by the government on Friday may revive business prospects. “With the government permitting home delivery of food from hotels and bakeries till 8 p.m., our members have been calling us from Friday evening onwards, asking whether they could open the outlets again,” said T.J. Manoharan, secretary of the Ernakulam wing of Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA). “A majority of online orders used to come in the evening and the extension of the timings up to 8 p.m. may help in improving the number of orders,” he added. KHRA general secretary G. Jayapal pointed out that the relaxation in timings for home delivery might not lead to the reopening of many hotels. “Business remains sluggish. But a few may open anticipating that sales may improve as the restrictions ease by next week,” he said. Hotel owners said they would continue to abide by the regulations prescribed by the Health authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-hotels-may-be-reopened/article31261117.ece
05 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||New sample collection centres set up||A day after becoming the first district in Kerala to cure all COVID-19 patients, Kottayam has stepped up its pandemic prevention activities by opening four additional centres for collection of throat and nasal swab samples. According to officials with the district health department, collection centres have been newly opened at the general hospitals of Pala, Changanassery, Kanjirappally, and the taluk hospital in Vaikom. The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) and the District General Hospital in Kottayam already have the centres. Many in quarantine “A decision with regard to opening collection centres in four taluks was made after considering the large number of people remaining in home isolation,” said an official with the district health department. As on Saturday, 3,265 persons are in home quarantine in the district. The health officials here on Saturday identified 14 primary contacts of a few COVID-19 patients in Kasaragod and Kannur. Three among them were admitted to the isolation ward at the GMC here on Saturday, taking the total number of persons under hospital surveillance to four. Even as all six COVID-19 patients in the district have recovered from the disease after undergoing treatment at the MCH here, the health authorities regard Kottayam far from a relief point. “We need at least one more week to get an approximate picture of the situation as incubation period of a majority people under home isolation will be completed only by then,” the official added. Pension disbursal The district administration has so far distributed social security pension to 65,053 persons in the district. As per estimates, pension worth Rs. 15.76 crore was distributed through the 126 primary cooperative societies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-sample-collection-centres-set-up/article31261146.ece
05 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tablighi meet: 13 under observation in Kozhikode||Thirteen people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month are under observation in Kozhikode district now. According to reliable sources, the Health Department has sent their body fluid samples for lab tests. These people are put up at specially designated COVID care centres, they added. Meanwhile, no new SARS-CoV-2 cases were reported from here on Saturday too. A release said that a total of 21,934 people were under observation now, including 32 who were lodged at the isolation ward attached to the Government Medical College Hospital. Fourteen persons were newly admitted, and eight were discharged. Right now, five SARS-CoV-2 positive patients from Kozhikode district and one each from Kasaragod and Kannur are undergoing treatment here. Of the 341 body fluid samples sent for lab tests so far, 287 are negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tablighi-meet-13-under-observation-in-kozhikode/article31261106.ece
05 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fish landing restricted to four harbours in Kozhikode||Fish landing in the district has been restricted to four harbours from Sunday. While fish auction has been completely banned, Matsyafed outlets will remain open, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said. At present, large fishing boats from the district are not allowed to venture into the sea. At the same time, small and traditional boats need clearance. However, fish landing has been restricted to Beypore, Puthiyappa, Koyilandi and Chombal harbours. Fish will be distributed among small-scale vendors straight from the boats without auction. Prices will be fixed by the Deputy Director of Fisheries. Vendors who have been issued tokens alone can enter harbours. Meanwhile, the Collector directed Health officials and those of the Food Safety Department to ensure that fish brought from other States are of good quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-landing-restricted-to-four-harbours-in-kozhikode/article31261105.ece
05 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wellness centre for Central staff||The proposed Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) wellness centre for Central government employees and pensioners will soon start functioning at Kallayi in Kozhikode. The centre will function with the full-time support of two doctors. M.K. Raghavan, MP, who worked on the proposal, said over 20,000 Central government employees and pensioners would benefit from the facility. “The Union government has already issued appointment orders for two medical officers, who were earlier serving the Mumbai and Thiruvanathapuram wellness centres,” he told The Hindu on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wellness-centre-for-central-staff/article31261107.ece
05 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||AVS to strengthen tele-health service||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala will strengthen its tele-health system in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. Arya Vaidya Sala (AVS) officials said here on Saturday that they would strengthen the tele-medicine system by ensuring treatment for all seeking it from any corner of the world. Timings rescheduled AVS Chief Physician P.M. Varier said that the timings of all AVS branches in the country had been rescheduled in such a way that medicines were available during the lockdown period. People can contact AVS through email atcorresdr@aryavaidyasala. com. The main doctors of AVS can also be contacted through phone. Dr. P.M. Varier (Chief Physician): 8075292949. Dr. K. Muraleedharan (Additional Chief Physician): 7994861662. Dr. K.V. Rajagopalan (Deputy Chief Physician): 9446249727. Dr. Baburaj Perur (Senior Physician): 9497671075. Dr. Anu R. Krishna (Assistant Physician): 9495820500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/avs-to-strengthen-tele-health-service/article31261118.ece
05 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||One more COVID-19 case in Palakkad||One more person in the district was tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of patients to seven. The 65-year-old man from Kavilpad, near Olavakode, had visited Gujarat, Nagpur and Raipur in February and March. He returned to Palakkad on March 21 by Kerala Express, said Health officials. He was in home quarantine until he started symptoms on March 30. He was tested on April 1, and he continued in home quarantine till Saturday. He was shifted to District Hospital here on Saturday. The district administration is struggling to make a route map of his movements since he had travelled by train to different states. Meanwhile, police continued to register cases against those who violated the lockdown restrictions. Over 75 persons were arrested and 68 cases registered until 5 p.m. on Saturday. Police said 57 vehicles were seized. As many as 1,400 police personnel were deployed across the district to restrict the movement of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-covid-19-case-in-palakkad/article31261119.ece
05 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Probe sought into fire at hills||The Western Ghats Protection Council (WGPC) has a detailed probe into a fire that destroyed 10 acres of vegetation in the ecologically fragile revenue land atop the Kannimala hills at Kadambanad grama panchayat in Adoor taluk on Thursday. In a statement, WGPC district president Avinash Palleenazhikathu alleged that the fire was part of a hidden agenda of the granite quarry lobby in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts who had been trying to resume quarrying at Kannimala. Mr. Palleenazhikathu alleged that certain private parties had taken possession of a large extent of revenue land at Kannimala with the help of forged documents. The quarry lobby had been trying to set up granite quarries and crusher units in this land, posing threat to the environment. ‘Annual feature’ Fire destroying vegetation at Kannimala has been a annual feature during summer and the authorities had turned a blind eye to such instances, he alleged. Democratic Youth Federation of India district secretariat member Sreeni S. Mannady too demanded a probe into the fire outbreak at Kannimala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-sought-into-fire-at-hills/article31261149.ece
05 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case in Pathanamthitta||As many as 3,073 persons coming from abroad have been placed in home quarantine in the district as on Saturday evening, a statement from District Collector P.B. Noohu said. This was apart from the 4,583 persons from other States in under home quarantine. A total of 345 primary and secondary contacts of the infected were home-quarantined. No new COVID-19 case was reported from Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Nineteen persons had been quarantined in the isolation wards. District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said no new admission had been made to isolation wards in the district. Results of all the 84 throat swab and blood samples received from the Virology Institute at Alappuzha on Saturday were COVID-19 negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-in-pathanamthitta/article31261150.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Screening of select cases speeded up||Speeding up the steps to diagnose COVID-19, the district administration on Saturday began the use of real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits in various areas, including Pothencode where a 68-year-old man died a few days ago after contracting the disease. Throat swabs were collected from 171 people who have been quarantined. They include 41 people, including 32 Pothencode natives who have been accommodated in the Institute of Management in Government (IMG) hostel, 100 in the Mar Ivanios College hostel, and 30 in the university and women’s hostels. Separately, the test on samples collected from 97 other Pothencode natives yielded negative results. Besides, tests conducted on samples from 11 people who had returned after attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi also showed negative results. While no COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday, 289 people were placed under surveillance. While 30 symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals, 17 have been discharged after being certified safe. They included a Malappuram native who was found infected with the disease. Interaction Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan interacted with legislators from the district through videoconferencing. Emerging from the discussions, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said steps had been adopted to ensure the welfare of migrant labourers. There were currently 14,277 migrant labourers who were accommodated in 541 camps in the district. While interacting with mediapersons earlier, the Minister flagged alleged attempts made by certain sections to utilise community kitchens for political gains. Strict action would be adopted against those found misusing the facilities, he said. The police intensified their efforts to detect violations of the ongoing lockdown.  Arrested The Palode police arrested 11 people for conducting mass prayers at the Chittoor Jamaat Mosque at Peringamala on Friday. Those arrested included the president and secretary of the Jamaat. They were later let off on bail. The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered 143 cases for various violations detected in the city. These included 36 cases registered under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screening-of-select-cases-speeded-up/article31261153.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Moratorium: bankers send reminder to RBI||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) has sent a reminder to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) regarding the State’s mid-March plea for a one-year moratorium on loan repayment in view of the economic scenario triggered by COVID-19. The SLBC, in a letter to the Regional Director, RBI, on Saturday reiterated the State’s request that the moratorium should be for a period of one year from February 1, 2020, SLBC convener N. Ajit Krishnan said. State’s demand On March 17, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had placed the State’s demand for a moratorium on loan repayment before the banks citing the financial crisis triggered by COVID-19. The next day, the bankers’ panel decided to recommend a one-year moratorium to the RBI. The condition was that the ‘repayment holiday’ would benefit standard accounts that were prompt in their repayment as on January 31, 2020. On March 27, however, the RBI declared a three-month loan moratorium from March 1 to May 31, 2020 at the national level, given the intensity of the COVID-19 situation and its impact on national economy. SBI clarification The State Bank of India (SBI) has clarified that the three-month moratorium on repayment of term loans under the COVID-19 relief package announced by the Reserve Bank of India would be available to all borrowers whose accounts are standard as on March 1, 2020. Borrowers need not submit any separate application for availing themselves of the moratorium for instalments due for payment between March 1 and May 31. Repayment The repayment period of such loans would be extended by three months at the end of the term, but the interest on the outstanding amount will continue to accrue during the moratorium period. Borrowers are directed to visit the website www.sbi.co.in/stopemi to defer the standing instruction/NACH mandate for three months. They are also eligible for refund of the instalments for March and April that have already been repaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moratorium-bankers-send-reminder-to-rbi/article31261125.ece
05 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Digital content to make the vacation enjoyable||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has teamed up with the State Council Educational Research and Training ( SCERT) to come up with a special programme titled Avadhikkala Santhoshangal (Happy vacation times) for children to recoup the lost class days in schools due to the lockdown. For the first phase of the programme, digital content has been created for all students from Classes 5 to 9 on the Samagra online resource portal developed by KITE as part of the Hi-Tech school project. This content has been developed in specific edutainment form so that the students could acquire the defined skills through various games and activities. The students could access these educational contents from the ‘Edutainment’ link available in the Samagra portal (samagra.kite. kerala.gov.in). They could select the class and topic of their choice and access the resources available for each subject. After using the resources, the students could also do the worksheets and quizzes based on the topics. The worksheets are created in an interactive form and they could also be downloaded for offline usage. In addition to these, digital contents for standard 1 to 12 are also made available under the ‘e-Resources’ link in Samagra.Students could access the resources through a smartphone. For those who do not have this facility, KITE will later make available the service of 1.2 lakh laptops in schools through its Little KITEs IT Clubs, says K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, KITE. In mid-February, during the early phase of the COVID-19 outbreak, KITE had successfully rolled out an online course for 81,000 teachers. The new content development process has been undertaken by over 160 teachers and educational experts from various districts in the State, all working from home during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-content-to-make-the-vacation-enjoyable/article31261130.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bank timings to be regulated in State||Bank timings will be regulated from Monday, given the need for strict adherence to social distancing norms to prevent the possibility of COVID-19 spread. From Monday to Thursday, bank transactions will be carried out only from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) said. The disbursal of pensions and financial assistance will be as follows: State pension accounts with numbers ending in ‘6’ and ‘7’ (April 6) and numbers ending in ‘8’ and ‘9’ (April 7). Jan Dhan accounts ending in numbers ‘4’ and ‘5’ (April 7), ‘6’ and ‘7’ (April 8), and ‘8’ and ‘8’ (April 9). The SLBC has also urged customers to use digital options for transactions as much as possible. Police directive State Police Chief Loknath Behra has issued directions to District Police Chiefs to facilitate the free movement of bank employees on duty during the lockdown period. A press note quoting him said banks would be asked to keep the number of employees to the minimum. The list of employees should be handed over to the police to make arrangements for their free movement to the workplace and back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-timings-to-be-regulated-in-state/article31261127.ece
05 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Senior citizen cell in each district||A senior citizen cell has been started in each district. The cells, led by the District Social Justice Officer and other officials, will provide support if the elderly in the State are in home quarantine or live alone or have no food or medicines. The cells are part of the measures introduced by the Social Justice and the Women and Child Development Departments to ensure proper care for people above the age of 60 who are in the high-risk category following an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State. There are 55 lakh elderly people in the State. Phone enquiry Over the next week, anganwadi workers will get in touch with the elderly over phone and enquire if they require food, medicines, or such necessities. Directions have been given to get medicines from the nearby primary health centre if these are hard to come by, and food from the nearby community kitchen. Those taking medicines for other illness or have respiratory problems should not interact with anyone. Special attention Elderly family members of those in home quarantine should be given special attention and any contact with them should be avoided. The government is also considering providing a kit with food for over Rs. 1,000 to the 22,000 elderly living in government’s old-age homes and those run by voluntary organisations. Overseeing activities Two Integrated Child Development Services supervisors will look into the day-to-day activities of each old-age home. They will call up the homes and enquire if food and medicines are available. Medicines are also being provided to the elderly under the Vayomithram programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-citizen-cell-in-each-district/article31261151.ece
05 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala MPs in a quandary as isolation period extended||The decision of the State government to extend the isolation period for COVID-19 suspects from 14 to 28 days has landed almost all MPs from the State in a bit of quandary. With the lockdown being strictly enforced, all the MPs are confined to their homes. The 14-day self-isolation order of the Health Department was to end on Tuesday and it was on Friday that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said all who had returned to the State after March 22 would have to sit back home for 28 days. “We are a bit puzzled over the fresh announcement. I returned from Delhi on March 23 after the Parliament session ended. I am in isolation in my home as per the first guideline which prescribed 14-day isolation. On Friday, we heard the Chief Minister saying that all those who arrived from abroad or other States after March 22 should be in isolation for 28 days,” said N.K. Premachandran, MP, said. Shashi Tharoor, MP from Thiruvananthapuram, is in Delhi as he failed to return after the Parliament session ended. Kasaragod MP Rajmohan Unnithan, who stays put at his home in the State capital, was restless as he was worried about his constituency. “I returned here on March 23 and along with me on the flight were other MPs K. Sudhakaran, Hibi Eden and Mr. Premachandran. In Kochi, where the flight stopped, a team of cleaners appeared and when I asked the airline cabin crew what’s happening, they said there was a complaint about some passengers coughing and sneezing. Later, when I landed in Thiruvananthapuram, I understood the situation,” said Mr. Unnithan. The lone CPI(M) MP, A.M. Ariff, said he would soon get in touch with the Chief Minister’s Office about the confusion over the isolation period. “Though we are unable to step out of our house, we are hooked up on our mobile phones, making calls as we Malayalis are spread across the globe and there is an issue everywhere which requires attention of authorities,” said Mr. Ariff.  I will soon get in touch with the Chief Minister’s Office about the confusion over the isolation period. A.M. Ariff, CPI(M) MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-mps-in-a-quandary-as-isolation-period-extended/article31261121.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Start-up comes up with e-self declaration||A city-based start-up has come up with an e-self-declaration form to enable people to key in details, including the type of motor vehicle, registration number, purpose of trip, traveller listing, date and duration, in their mobile phones themselves. Motorists venturing out during the lockdown need to carry self-declaration forms. The information entered in the mobile, on the android or IOS platform, will be stored locally in the mobile app and the Cloud and the user can present the e-form instead of the hard copy to the law-enforcers during inspections. The officers can see the e-form in their mobiles on keying in the registration number of the vehicle and the mobile number of the applicant. The e-form can also be forwarded as SMS to the officer. Traffic violations The e-form has been developed by International Virtual Assistance Pvt. Ltd. (IVA), Nalanchira, functioning under the Kerala Start-Up Mission, as part of the iSafe Traffic Penalty Ticketing System to assist traffic enforcers to identify traffic violators, issue chalans and track actions in real time. iSafe help track all trips made by the user. Details such as registration number, purpose of trip, travellers, and warnings/penalties could be made available to the requesting authority, founder and COO of the start-up Aji Soman told The Hindu . The authorities may use this feature to review the user in real time using the government facing side of the app, to determine warnings and penalties to be administered. If the authorities identify an infected person, details of his/her previous trips can be retrieved from iSafe. Vital during COVID-19 “This information could be vital in reducing the spread of COVID-19 through targeted quarantining of those who might have been exposed,” he said. Drivers who refuse to stop can be tracked as officers can capture photographs of the vehicle along with the time and location. Any user’s route map can be generated, especially if that particular user is tagged ‘positive’ for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-up-comes-up-with-e-self-declaration/article31261122.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, withdraw cash on doorstep||Cash withdrawal from any bank account linked to Aadhaar is going to be a reality with the government giving the nod to the Department of Posts for doorstep banking services. Account holders need not step into the branch or visit ATMs for withdrawing cash during the lockdown. Through this facility, crowding in banks and ATMs can be avoided while maintaining social distancing. The government acted on a request of Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle, Sarada Samapth seeking permission to make available doorstep banking services through India Post Payments Bank (IPPB), which rolled out Aadhaar enabled payment system services in September 2019.  119 banks The facility is available for accounts in 119 participating banks and 24 non-banking finance companies. All that a person needs is a mobile phone and Aadhaar number (including Aadhaar QR, virtual ID) linked to any of the bank. The customer should share the OTP received in the phone with the delivery staff of the Department of Posts. After scanning or entering the Aadhaar number and the amount and the bank from which money is to be withdrawn, the customer has to place the finger on the biometric device to authenticate identity, based on which up to Rs. 10,000 can be withdrawn in a day. “It will be a simple, hassle-free process for withdrawing cash from home during lockdown by any depositor, including a non-IPPB account holder. This service is provided free of cost to the customer,” Assistant Director, SB, B. Lakshmi said here. To place a request, the customer should contact the nearest head post office or the helpline in each postal division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-withdraw-cash-on-doorstep/article31261132.ece
05 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IIITM-K develops analogue circuit capable of studying SARS-CoV-2||The Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management-Kerala (IIITM-K), in a joint research project with German institutes, has made a breakthrough in developing analogue integrated circuits that can possibly be used to analyse and interpret COVID-19 data for a solution to the pandemic. The development in this critical area has been achieved by joint research conducted in collaboration with the Analogue Circuits and Image Sensors Lab, Seigen University, and Fraunhofer Society, Germany, and the Centre for Excellence in Artificial General Intelligence and Neuromorphic Systems (neuroAGI), IIITM-K. Artificial intelligence (AI) researchers are using advanced neural networks such as GAN for discovering, analysing, interpreting, and visualising the SARS-CoV-2 virus data through computing and molecular structure discovery. Analogue integrated circuits are critical to the development of generative adversarial networks (GAN) that can be trained to produce or generate new content. The paper, ‘Memristive GAN in Analog’, has been published online in scientific reports journal of Nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iiitm-k-develops-analogue-circuit-capable-of-studying-sars-cov-2/article31261155.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB directive for nine-minute blackout||Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) chairman N.S. Pillai has called upon domestic consumers not to switch off their fans, refrigerators and other equipment while heeding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off all lights for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on Sunday. Mr. Pillai said here on Saturday that a sudden dip in power demand at one go and a spurt in demand on switching on the lights after the prescribed time would eventually lead to frequency and voltage fluctuations. Hence, all officers in charge of the State Load Dispatch Centre control room, generating stations and substations had been asked to closely monitor the variations during the shift in the demand pattern. Power flow would be regulated to avoid any hitch. Directions had been given not to switch off street lights to avert law and order issues. Lights in commercial establishments, hospitals and other emergency services would not be switched off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-directive-for-nine-minute-blackout/article31261133.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation’s contribution||The Corporation on Saturday handed over Rs. 2 crore as its contribution to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Mayor K. Sreekumar handed over the cheque to Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran. The contributions from the employees and the councillors will be handed over later. As many as 83,567 food packets were distributed from the Corporation’s community kitchens on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporations-contribution/article31261154.ece
05 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||She Taxi comes to elderly’s aid||From Sunday, She Taxi will come to the aid of the elderly and the ill who are facing difficulties in the wake of the lockdown in the State. Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja said those who live alone and are ill and the elderly can make use of the She Taxi service to buy medicines and keep hospital appointments. The She-taxi service will be available initially in a 15-km radius in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Kozhikode. Those in need can call the centralised call centre on phone numbers 7306701200 and 7306701400. People who need medicines can contact the call centre and send a doctor’s prescription through WhatsApp to these numbers. The service will be free for below the poverty line card-holders. Others will be charged half the recognised tariff for a kilometre. The financially backward among above the poverty line category too can avail themselves of the service for free. The expenses on account of the rides will be met by Gender park, Global tracks (call centre), and the She-taxi drivers. Safety kits will be provided to the drivers by NIMS hospital for their safety, a statement here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/she-taxi-comes-to-elderlys-aid/article31261124.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP flays Isaac||Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac’s anti-Centre statements are aimed at masking his despair and his being sidelined by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan has said. He said here on Friday that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Mr.Vijayan had welcomed the Centre’s COVID-19 package, but Dr. Isaac alone was complaining that the Centre was doing nothing. The Centre was giving ration at a subsidised rate. The Minister’s reforms on the strength of lottery and excise revenue and market borrowing have not made any impact in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-flays-isaac/article31261128.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||B.Tech S6 supplementary results out||The A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University has published the results of the sixth semester BTech examination conducted in December last. The deadlines for applying for revaluation and seeking copies of the answer sheets will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/btech-s6-supplementary-results-out/article31261135.ece
05 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||MP releases Rs. 1 crore for rapid test kits||As ICMR has granted permission for conducting rapid test for controlling community spread of COVID-19. T.N. Prathapan, MP, has released Rs. 1 crore from his MP fund for procuring rapid test kits. When the existing tests take 6 to 8 hours for testing the disease, the rapid test takes only 2.5 hours. Thrissur district has recently been declared as COVID-19 hotspot. So far an amount of Rs. 3.5 crore has been allotted from the MP’s fund to the district. He asked the Collector to take steps to procure rapid test kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-releases-rs-1-crore-for-rapid-test-kits/article31261112.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Their share of solace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/their-share-of-solace/article31261160.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dangerously near||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dangerously-near/article31261144.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tusker’s day out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tuskers-day-out/article31261115.ece
05 April 2020||ADILABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ophthalmologist’s Delhi visit causes anxiety||The entire medical fraternity and others concerned in Adilabad district are waiting anxiously for the COVID-19 test report of an ophthalmologist at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Adilabad. If the test report turns out to be positive for the deadly viral infection, then scores of people who have come into contact with him will become COVID-19 suspects entailing a huge exercise in isolation and performing tests, according to sources in RIMS hospital. The medical fraternity and the district administration are aghast that the eye specialist in question hid the fact that he had visited the Tablighi Jamaat markaz (centre) at Nizamuddin in New Delhi between March 8 and 12. He, in fact attended duties between March 12 and April 1 before he was sent into quarantine at the RIMS wards. The eye specialist in question, is a senior national-level functionary of the Tablighi Jamaat based in Adilabad town. He is reported to have attended the preparatory meeting of the Jamaat between the dates in question having flown in and out of the national capital. The potential spread of infection can be gauged from the fact that the doctor performed duties as in charge of the ambulance service of the department all through and performed one emergency eye surgery on March 26. He even attended a meeting of the Drug Purchase Committee of the RIMS on March 28 where the agenda was about purchase of drugs related with COVID-19 pandemic. “It was only after a search was launched for the Jamaat returnees that his name came up as having visited the Jamaat centre in Delhi. The Collector immediately asked the District Medical and Health Officer to get the ophthalmologist into the isolation ward, which was done on April 1,” disclosed a source in the Medical and Health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ophthalmologists-delhi-visit-causes-anxiety/article31260813.ece
05 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai trust donates Rs. 10 crore||The Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust has donated Rs. 5 crore to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) to help the State government tide over the medical emergency caused by the spread of COVID-19. The Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust has contributed another Rs. 5 crore to the PM CARES Fund. It has also promised to donate Rs. 2-crore worth Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for the doctors and medical staff at the 14 quarantine centres in Anantapur district. Managing trustee of the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust R.J. Ratnakar handed over the cheque for Rs. 5 crore to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday. In addition to the Rs. 10 crore given to the relief funds, medical supplies worth Rs. 2 crore would be made by the trust to the 14 quarantine centres set up by the Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Puttaparthi, in the district. Staff Reporter in Vijayawada writes: The Krishna District Auto Finance Association donated Rs. 3 lakh to the CMRF. Its representatives S. Veerabhadra Rao and B. Narayana Rao handed over the cheque to district Collector A. Md. Imtiaz. The Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET), Vijayawada, contributed Rs. 2 lakh. Its representatives handed over the cheque to Nuzvid Sub-Collector P. Swapnil Dinakar. Pensioner’s gesture The Regional Office of Bank of Baroda, in the presence of Mr. Imitiaz, handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.16 lakh to the Akshaya Patra Foundation to help it feed the poor during the lockdown period. A retired banker S. Rama Rao of the city donated his one-month pension of Rs. 56,752 to the CMRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-trust-donates-rs-10-crore/article31261215.ece
05 April 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homemakers come to the aid of the lesser privileged||It is 10 days since the lockdown, being implemented across the country to break the COVID-19 chain, began. Most of us are worried about how long we have to remain confined to our homes. During the relaxation period, one is allowed to go out to buy essential commodities. Most of us fail to think of the underprivileged, who do not have a roof over their heads, and have barely anything to eat as the movement of public on the roads is curtailed and there are no kind-hearted souls to help them. There are, however, some who are going out of the way to do whatever they could to help them in this hour of crisis. Lavanya and Venkatalakshmi, two friends living at Seethammapeta in the city, were touched by the plight of those living beside the roads and migrant workers, stranded due to the lockdown. “When we give food to children and other members of our families, we get thoughts of the hunger of those stuck on the roads. We decided to cook more food, while cooking for family members, and feed the underprivileged persons,” Ms. Lavanya told The Hindu . “We cook the food at home, pack it and distribute it to children living on the roads, near the railway station and RTC Complex. A typical food packet consists of rice, sambar and curry in addition to water sachets. We take the support of our family members for the distribution of food packets. So far, we have distributed 200 food packets and will continue to do so till the lockdown is lifted,” she said. A WhatsApp group called ‘Vizag Malayalees’ in association with Andhra Pradesh Consortium of Malayalees association(ACMA) is distributing food to around 300 persons every day from March 24. The food packets are distributed to the poor and needy from Gajuwaka to Visakhapatnam Railway Station and at KGH every day. We will continue distribution of food till April 14, says ACMA chief coordinator S.G. Vijayakumar Nair. Food packet contains rice, sambar, pickle and some mixed veg curry and sometimes egg and veg biryani too. A group of youths went round the streets and distributed food packets to urchins near the Gurajada statue on the railway station road on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/homemakers-come-to-the-aid-of-the-lesser-privileged/article31261234.ece
05 April 2020||Chennai/Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 deaths in T.N., both linked to Delhi event||Andhra Pradesh reported 26 more COVID-19 cases from several districts during the 24 hours ending Saturday night. The tally has now gone up to 190 in the State. A 24-year-old patient, the first one to test positive from Krishna district, has recovered and was discharged from a hospital in Vijayawada in the evening. So far, five patients have recovered and one has died in the State. Nine new cases were reported in Krishna and six new cases were reported in the neighbouring Guntur district. Kadapa reported four new cases while Kurnool reported three cases and Prakasam reported two cases. Anantapur and Chittoor districts reported one case each. So far, Nellore and Krishna districts have reported 32 cases each, the highest number in the State and they are followed by Guntur (26), Kadapa (23), Prakasam (19), West Godavari (15), Visakhapatnam (15), East Godavari (11), Chittoor (10), Kurnool (4) and Anantapur (3). Vizianagaram and Srikakulam reported zero cases. Telangana has so far reported a total of 229 positive cases. In Karnataka, 16 fresh cases were confirmed on Saturday, taking the total number of those affected to 144, the Health department said. The figures include four deaths and 11 patients who were discharged. Death in Bagalkot A 75-year old man, a resident of Bagalkot, confirmed positive on Friday and undergoing treatment at a designated hospital in the district, has died. Karnataka Education Minister Suresh Kumar said the man had initially consulted an ayurveda doctor. He later went to another hospital and was there for four days. However, doctors there suspected his condition to be COVID-19 and sent him to the designated hospital, where he was under treatment for a day before he died. The man had cardiac stents, diabetes and hypertension, the Minister said and appealed to doctors and hospitals to refer patients to government hospitals as soon as they detected symptoms. Among the 16 fresh cases, two had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, while seven are from Mysuru (four had a travel history to Delhi in January). The government has appealed to those who attended the congregation to contact 080-29711171. Among the 144 cases, eight are transit passengers of Kerala who landed at airports in Karnataka and are being treated in the State. Those discharged include nine patients from Bengaluru and two from Kalaburagi. Among the deceased are one person each from Kalaburgari, Bengaluru, Bagalkote and Tumakuru. In Kerala, 11 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the number of active cases to 254. While five of the positive cases had come from Dubai, three are Tablighi Jamaat event participants and one person had returned from Nagpur, a government press release quoting Health Minister K.K. Shailaja said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/26-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ap/article31260805.ece
05 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru/Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader Shobha smells ‘corona jihad’||Lok Sabha member and Karnataka BJP leader Shobha Karandlaje has courted controversy by saying that she smells “corona jihad” in several cases of COVID-19 being traced to the religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi. She appealed to the Centre and State governments to punish those who attended the event and did not take medical tests. Speaking to presspersons here on Saturday, Ms. Karandlaje said: “Those who attended the Nizamuddin event are engaged in spreading the infection across the country. Many of the participants are still missing. One can smell ‘corona jihad’ behind all this.” She said those who attended the event should undergo medical test and remain in quarantine. “Those who fail to follow the guidelines should be traced and the government should subject them to life imprisonment,” she said. ‘Light will kill virus’ Mysuru’s BJP MLA S.A. Ramdas has invited ridicule by claiming that the virus will die when candles are lit. While making an appeal to the people to light candles at 9 p.m. on Sunday in their homes as suggested Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Ramdas said the viruses in the house will be “drawn towards the candle and die from the heat just like insects fly towards light to burn themselves to death.” He claimed that his observations were “scientific.” “Also, on Sundays, the heat generated by the sun is higher than other days”, he said. Mr. Ramdas also sought to lend a “scientific” angle to the Prime Minister’s call for clapping on April 22. He claimed that virus would be “killed by the heat generated in the body by clapping and through the sound generated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leader-shobha-smells-corona-jihad/article31260807.ece
05 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh case in Tirupati takes tally to 10 in Chittoor dist.||Tension prevailed in Tirupati with the surfacing of yet another positive Covid-19 case at Yashoda Nagar abutting the administrative building of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Saturday morning, bringing the total cases to 10 in Chittoor district. The case is a married woman, who along with three of her family members was immediately shifted to the isolation ward at the SVRR Hospital there. The Covid-19 Task Force personnel said that the woman and her family members happened to come in contact with the returnees from Taglibhi Jamaat meet in New Delhi, in a train while returning from Hyderabad prior to the lockdown. The personnel sprayed disinfectant in the colony and its surrounding areas. Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and Municipal Commissioner P.S. Girisha rushed to Yashoda Nagar and inspected the streets, before declaring it as a red zone. The approach roads and the internal streets of the colony and the surrounding areas were blocked cutting off inward and outward movement. A couple of days ago, the first COVID-19 case in Tirupati was reported at the Thyagaraja Nagar, a few metres away from the Yashoda Nagar. Catering workers worried Meanwhile, about 200 catering personnel working at the TTD administrative building preparing food for free distribution among public expressed concern over the development, saying they have to pass through the twin red zones of Thyagaraja Nagar and Yashodha Nagar while coming to work. They urged the TTD authorities to shift preparation of food to outskirts of the city. Meanwhile, AP State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (APSRSASTF) Superintendent of Police P. Ravi Shankar told the media that 140 of their personnel had been assigned COVID-19 duties at Tirupati, Rajampeta and Kadapa till the end of the lockdown. Connected areas Medical authorities on COVID-19 duties said that of the 10 positive cases, seven were detected in Tirupati, Renigunta, Yerpedu and Srikalahasti, the contiguous areas over a 35-km stretch. The other cases were recorded at Palamaner and Gangavaram on the western side, over 100 km away from Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-case-in-tirupati-takes-tally-to-10-in-chittoor-dist/article31260852.ece
05 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue man abandoned in bushes||The Piler Rural police on lockdown duty rescued a 30-year-old man at an isolated hilly terrain near Garnimitta village on the Piler-Rayachoty road on Saturday. Circle-Inspector S. Murali Krishna along with his team was on patrol duty on the road, when he noticed some unusual movement in roadside bushes. Taing it for stray cattle, he passed the spot, but in the return, the police officer became curious on observing a slight movement from the same spot. On careful examination, he found a youth making feeble sounds in the bushes. The police lifted the youth from the thorny bushes. With scratches and soars all over his body, the sick youth was not in a position to speak. Though he took some food and water, he later fell unconscious. Mr. Murali Krishna called for an ambulance and shifted him a hospital nearby. Meanwhile, residents of Garnimitta village said that the sick youth, who came to the remote village a couple of months ago, used to move in the village and used to resort to begging. As he was found making strange sounds and gestures, the public forced him to move away from the area four days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-man-abandoned-in-bushes/article31260845.ece
05 April 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure sanitisation, security in red zones’||Minister for Health and Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) has directed officials to take up sanitisation and security measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the red zones in West Godavari district. Participating in a review meeting held here on Saturday, he said eight persons who attended Markaz meeting at Hazrat Nizamuddin had contracted coronavirus in the town and a few more persons tested positive at different places in the district. He asked the Delhi attendees to voluntarily come forward for medical tests. The sanitation staff should take up the drive and the police were directed to prevent movement of public in the red zones. Similarly, all facilities should be provided at the quarantine centres, the Deputy Chief Minister said. Hospitals About 750 beds were readied at Ashram Hospital and 202 beds were kept ready at the District Government Headquarters Hospital for treating the patients. Medical department officials should keep masks, medicines and personal protective equipment ready in emergency, he said. The Revenue, Civil Supplied and other officials had been requested to take steps to display price lists at all fair price shops, rythu bazaars and fish markets. Officers monitoring sale and supply of essential commodities should take steps for ensuring social distance, Mr. Srinivas said and asked the ration shop dealers to arrange more counters to prevent crowdng at the shops. Joint Collectors K. Venkataramana Reddy and Namburi Tej Bharat, municipal commissioner Chandrashekar, District Medical and Health Officer Dr. Subramanyeswari, District Coordinator of Hospital Services Dr. Shankar Rao and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-sanitisation-security-in-red-zones/article31260857.ece
05 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister allays fears over export of aqua products||Minister for Fisheries and Marketing Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao has said that aqua products weighing 2,832 tonnes have been exported from the State. Allaying the concerns of aqua farmers over obtaining export clearances, the Minister said, “The State government is taking all possible measures to facilitate exports. We have convened a meeting with the Chairman of the Marine Products Exports Development Authority (MPEDA). We are going to initiate stringent action against the middlemen if they try to take advantage of the situation and force the farmers to sell the aqua products at a cheaper rate.” Mr. Ramana Rao, who had been taking part in a series of high-level meetings convened by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the last few days, said that a new and separate corporation for the aqua farmers and their welfare would be announced. “I have no doubt that the future will be bright for the aqua farmers and processing units. We know that the aqua sector is prone to uncertainties and is dependent on global situations. The aqua processing units too are affected due to non-availability of labour despite being ready to give Rs. 200 in addition to the daily labour charges. We are making efforts to ensure smooth functioning of the processing units,” the Minister said. The aqua sector has emerged as the prime revenue-earner in the State, which is deprived of major IT firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-allays-fears-over-export-of-aqua-products/article31260844.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Website for credible content on virus launched||At a time when a torrent of information on COVID-19 is being generated and spread from all corners of the world, a multi-institutional multi-lingual science communication initiative — CovidGyan — has been launched to deal with the information overload The initiative is the brainchild of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) and the Tata Memorial Centre (TMC). An outcome of this is the launch of the CovidGyan website (https://covid-gyan.in) to serve as a source of scientifically credible content related to COVID-19 related content. More partners Other prominent partners of this initiative include Vigyan Prasar, IndiaBioscience and the Bangalore Life Science Cluster, according to a release from the TIFR, Hyderabad. Coordinating this initiative is Rajesh Gopakumar, director of the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, Bangalore. He said that the CovidGyan initiative is “to create, curate and communicate scientifically credible and authentic COVID-19 related content and resources. The main target audience of the content is the general citizens as well as the scientifically curious who will like to keep abreast of developments”.  Holistic perspective Satyajit Mayar, director of the National Centre for Biological Sciences, said that NCBS houses the expertise, knowledge and experience in studying all scales of biology, from viruses to ecosystems that humans inhabit. Their effort at the time of COVID crisis would be to provide a holistic perspective on the situation people are in and seek appropriate solutions for the resolution of the crisis. ‘Need to work together’ V. Chandrasekhar, director of TIFR-Hyderabad, said the pandemic was affecting countries around the world and the situation required the scientific community to work together to meet several objectives. The TIFR Hyderabad scientists were working along with several others in the TIFR system, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tifr-iisc-launch-multi-lingual-website-for-credible-content-on-covid-19/article31260875.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||RMP booked for treating symptomatic person||A Registered Medical Practitioner (RMP) was booked by Shadnagar police for treating the 55-year-old woman with COVID-19 symptoms, who died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital on Wednesday, and her samples were tested positive on Friday. According to police on March 31, the woman, a native of Chegur in Nandigama mandal of Rangareddy district, had throat pain and went to an RMP in Chegur, who refused to treat her as the government has imposed a ban on their practice. “So, she visited an RMP in Shadnagar named Vittal, who prescribed her medicines for throat infection and let her go, despite having COVID-19 symptoms,” police said. Next day, the woman was admitted to a government hospital in Shadnagar, from where she was shifted to OGH, where she died. A case under relevant sections of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered against Dr. Vittal for continuing to treat patients during a ban on their services and not alerting the government when the woman approached him. “We have shifted both the doctors to Rajendranagar quarantine centre as they came in contact with the victim,” a police officer said. On Friday, government officials directed the villagers to undergo home-quarantine for 14 days. Cyberabad police at a late-night press release said that the victim ran a kirana shop in her village, and her family members on Friday were shifted to a local hospital and put under isolation. People who attended her funeral were taken to Gandhi Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rmp-booked-for-treating-woman-with-covid-19-symptoms/article31261070.ece
05 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Middlemen warned against taking undue advantage of shrimp growers||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop on Saturday warned of stringent action against middlemen who were not buying shrimp at remunerative prices fixed by the State government for the lockdown period. In a review meeting with district officials and various MLAs at Amalapuram, Mr. Viswaroop has appealed to the officials to ensure that the shrimps were sold at the remunerative prices during the lockdown as aquaculture has been badly hit in recent weeks Meanwhile, talking about the foreign returnees, he said: “As many as 1,408 foreign returnees in the Amalapuram Revenue Division will complete the 14-day home quarantine on Sunday. However, a team of doctors will continue their watch on them.” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has appealed to the village elders to stop imposing restrictions on those who work in the aqua processing units. This comes in light of the incidents where it was reported that the elders were not permitting the workers to enter their village for fear of the latter being carriers of coronavirus. Mummidivaram MLA P.V. Sateesh Kumar, Rajole MLA Rapaka Vara Prasad, and P. Gannavaram MLA K. Chittibabu promised to raise awareness among the local communities on the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/middlemen-warned-against-taking-undue-advantage-of-shrimp-growers/article31261229.ece
05 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police arrest 39 people out for morning walk in Kochi||Venturing out of home in the early morning hours in violation of the lockdown may help fool the police on the ground but not their drone watching from the sky is a lesson that 39 persons, including two women, out for a walk, learned the hard way on Saturday. The group from different points had converged on the walkway at Panampilly Nagar, a major residential hub in the city, in violation of the social distancing ordered to check the spread of the pandemic when South Police aided by the drone descended there and arrested all of them around 6.15 a.m. IPC charges They were taken to the police station and slapped with charges under IPC Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance passed last month allowing the State government to take special measures and frame regulations to tackle an epidemic disease. Later, all of them were released on bail. “They were detected by the drone even before and were repeatedly warned against violating the lockdown. But they kept on dishing out lame excuses like they were not aware of the restrictions. So, we chose to take action against them when they defied the directions again,” said G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). For a week now, the city police have been carrying out surveillance using a drone allocated to them by the State police headquarters for the better enforcement of the national lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-arrest-39-people-out-for-morning-walk-in-kochi/article31260819.ece
05 April 2020||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala police come to the aid of starving herons||With stories about bird flu doing the rounds, personnel at the Neendakara Coastal police station were a little alarmed when they spotted several blue herons lying on the ground. They instantly alerted the Animal Husbandry Department and the autopsy held at District Veterinary Centre revealed the cause of death as starvation. Since the harbours of Sakthikulangara and Neendakara are among the few avian-rich sites in the State, they are home to hundreds of fish-eating species, including storks, egrets, cormorants, and herons.  Pooling money But the recent fishing restrictions, along with the ban on auctions at harbours, had cut their main food source.  When the Coastal police found the birds famished and half-dead, they decided to step in. “You cannot feed them foodgrains as they eat only fish. So we began to buy fish from country crafts which return at 4 a.m. On the first day we bought fish for Rs. 1,000. We keep some fish on a wooden stand on our station premises and spread the rest in areas where the birds flock. We have been arranging food for stray dogs coordinating with voluntary organisations, but arranging fish during lockdown was a bit difficult,” says sub-inspector M.D. Prashanthan. According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2019, the harbour area has a very high count of little egrets. While some birds go in search of food to other places, some species such as blue herons can hardly survive outside the coastal ecosystem. “They live on the seashore eating the discards from boats, which will be more than enough on normal days. But with trawlers lying idle and only a handful of traditional fishers venturing into the sea they were struggling. They were collapsing for lack of food and the stray dogs were preying on them,” he adds. Only small varieties Even before the lockdown, the police personnel used to keep water for the birds. “It was really heartbreaking for us to see the birds, especially babies, dropping down. Since they do not like chunks of big fish, we feed them small varieties like ‘nandal.’ Initially the birds were very scared of human presence and used to fly away at the minutest sound. But these days they have become more friendly,” says ASI D. Sreekumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-come-to-the-aid-of-starving-herons/article31260815.ece
05 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand artist takes up campaign||Sand artist M. Sanath Kumar has taken up a campaign to spread the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the people of the country to light lamps to express their resolve to combat coronavirus on Sunday. Show solidarity It is time for all countrymen to show solidarity with those who are in the forefront of the fight against the dreaded virus including health, revenue and police staff, he said. He made a sand art on the theme on the Eruru beach, near Chillakur, in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sand-artist-takes-up-campaign/article31260850.ece
05 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more persons test positive for coronavirus in Prakasam dist.||Health officials in the district were on toes as four more persons tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. With this, the number of persons afflicted with the viral disease has climbed to 21 in the district and a majority of them are Tablighi Jamaat returnees, said District Collector P. Bhaskar. The four persons, two from Ongole and one each from Chirala and Kunkalamarru, near Karamchedu, who tested positive on Saturday have contracted it from those who had taken part in the Jamaat in New Delhi in mid-March, the Collector added. First patient recovered Meanwhile, the first patient, who had returned from London, has been discharged. Cluster containment strategy was implemented in, among other areas, Islampeta and Market Centre in Ongole as also in Chirala and Kunkalamarru in the wake of some of the returnees from Delhi testing positive for the disease. Movement of people to and from the containment zones was prohibited. Health officials conducted door-to-door surveys to assess the health condition of each and every person in the containment clusters. Police were persuading people who came out of their homes in Ongole and other places in view of the severity of the health situation. Nellore Ten municipal divisions were declared red zones in Nellore as the south coastal Andhra district accounted for the highest number(32) of positive coronavirus cases in the State. A person who had returned from Italy has been discharged after recovery. Curfew-like situation prevailed in most parts of Nellore, as also in Naidupeta, Gudur, Vakadu, Indukurupeta, Kavali and Tada. Relaxation during the lockdown was reduced by an hour to four hours to facilitate purchase of essential commodities. Much to the relief of the authorities, 41 persons tested negative for the viral disease in SPSR Nellore district. As many as 550 persons who had come in contact with those who had returned from the national capital were quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-more-persons-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-prakasam-dist/article31260848.ece
05 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 held for conducting mass prayers in Kerala||The Kerala police intensified their efforts to detect violations of the ongoing lockdown in the State on Saturday. The Palode police arrested 11 people for conducting mass prayers at the Chittoor Jamaat Mosque at Peringamala on Friday. Those arrested included the president and secretary of the Jamaat committee. They were later let off on bail. The city police registered 143 cases for various violations that were detected in the city. These included 36 cases registered under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. Drones were also deployed in various parts of the city to identify violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-held-for-conducting-mass-prayers-in-kerala/article31260820.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||An e-Pass to ensure hassle-free provision of essential services||Officials of the COVID-19 Essential Commodities Control Room have come up with a novel idea of issuing an ‘e-Pass App’ to the private employees who are working in the essential commodities’ manufacture, sale and supply in the State. Passes are being issued to 20% of the staff members in an organisation after thorough verification of their applications. “The App, a first of its kind in the State, was launched on April 1. The is to ensure manufacture, sale and supply of essential commodities needed for the day-to-day life during the lockdown period,” says control room special officer Himanshu Shukla. The integrated control room, comprising officers from 11 departments such as Civil Supplies, Transport, Revenue, Labour, Medical and Health, and Police, has so far issued 3,000 passes. “Employees involved in the essential services and transportation sectors are being given the passes to ensure hassle-free operations during the ongoing crisis,” the official says. “In all, 23 essential services have been identified across the State. The essential commodities and services are defined in GO 289, and are divided into two categories – organisations involved in manufacturing, and supply and sale of essential commodities and services. Passes are being issued for the private sector employees working in factories, establishments and industries and companies, and its offices engaged in the production or supply of essential goods,” Mr. Shukla, who is the brain behind the system, explains. Online process The entire process is online and the individual need not visit any office. The application can be filled by clicking the following link available on the Spandana portal –https://gramawardsachivalayam.ap.gov.in/ CVPASSAPP/CV/CV Organization Registration. The owner, or head of the organisation should apply for the pass on behalf of the employees by providing the mobile phone number of the employee, Aaadhar number, GST number and photograph. The Joint Collector is the final authority to either approve or reject the application. “The average time for issuing the pass is six hours. We have a target to issue passes within four hours of applying for the same. The pass will be issued with a QR Code and particulars such as route, time, days and other details. The pass holder can show it to the officers at the check-posts on their mobile, or can display the print copy,” Mr. Shukla says. Grievance redressal There is a grievance redress mechanism for the applicants. They can contact the helpline 1902 for registering grievances. Once the grievance is registered, it will be sent to the Joint Collector, who is the authorised officer, to verify, approve or reject it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-e-pass-to-ensure-hassle-free-provision-of-essential-services/article31261226.ece
05 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus threat spurs activity in turmeric fields||Amid the coronavirus threat, activity in the turmeric fields has picked up in the recent past. Turmeric farmers have engaged migrant workers to take up the turmeric processing. As the smoke billows from 'gaadi poyyi' (hearth made in the form of a deep trench) in the fields, a team of workers are seen busy curing the fresh turmeric rhizomes. "For this work, we need at least six persons. Each one has a specific duty," says Galeb Sahev, who heads a team of workers at Mallempudi village in Guntur district. The fresh rhizomes are loaded in 'baanalu' (huge iron vessels) for boiling. The 'baanalu' are immersed in the water-filled 'kalai' (square shaped vessel) and covered. The turmeric is boiled for an hour or so. It requires four persons to lift the 'baanalu' and unload the cured turmeric, he says.  Equipment rent  His associates such as Sk. Nagul Meera says that they process about 10 quintals a day. The owner of equipment takes Rs. 30 out of every Rs. 90 earned as rent. Each worker would earn about Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 per day depending upon the work load, he says. Turmeric farmers like B. Damodar Reddy says that the rhizomes loses one-fourth of their weight after boiling and drying. The boiling increases the shelf life of the turmeric. The boiling of rhizomes avoids the raw odour, reduces the drying time and yields uniformly coloured product, he explains. Team work Galeb Saheb says that he and his associates migrate to other districts where turmeric is cultivated. He says that their work starts soon after harvesting. As every farmer cannot afford to dig a 'gaadi poyyi' and engage workers in their own fields, they bring their produce to one common point. "We spend about a month in open fields here. While one of us prepares food, we take up the boiling and other works and complete the curing of produce of every farmer. In fact, it's a team work," he says. Satish, his associate, says that back in their native place, they are engaged in cutting subabul trees. That work fetches Rs. 200 to Rs. 600 a day. The turmeric curing is a seasonal job, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-threat-spurs-activity-in-turmeric-fields/article31261213.ece
05 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress seeks ‘financial action plan’ for poor||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sirivella Prasad asked the State and Central governments to come out with a financial roadmap to reassure the poor who have been severely affected by the lockdown. In a statement on Saturday, Mr. Prasad criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal urging citizens to light lamps on Sunday evening as a symbolic move bereft of any concrete solutions. “At a time when people on the frontlines are working overtime to fight the pandemic, Mr. Modi is resorting to gimmicks and symbolism. Clanging utensils and lighting lamps will not offer any solutions to the problem of shortages of equipment faced by medical personnel or the hardships faced by countless migrant labourers, lakhs of employees and thousands of MSME units,” Mr. Prasad said. “The unplanned manner in which the lockdown was implemented has led to chaos and has caused great hardship to innumerable migrant workers all over India. It was heart-breaking to see these people walking for hundreds of kilometres to reach their villages without food or shelter. It is the duty of both the Central and State Governments and all Congress party leaders and workers to do their utmost to lessen their suffering,” the AICC secretary said. Extensive testing sought “The Central Government as well as State Government should immediately announce a Financial Action Plan that would reassure the poor people and also provide adequate financial support to the sections that were left out, including farmers, tenant farmers, landless agricultural workers, MGNREGA workers without any paid work and laid-off industrial workers. Also, the supply of 10 kg free ration to every individual through PDS for the 21-day lockdown period needed to be implemented. It is the foremost duty of the government to ensure shelter, rent relief, wages and food to the poor,” he said. The 21-day nationwide lockdown is necessary in order to contain the pandemic, but would be futile unless it is accompanied by extensive testing. Only extensive testing yielded results in many countries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-seeks-financial-action-plan-for-poor/article31261216.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna’s first COVID-19 patient recovers||Krishna district’s first COVID-19 patient, a 24-year-old youth from One Town area, was discharged from the Government General Hospital here on Saturday in the presence of District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and Commissioner of Police Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. The youth, who returned from Paris, approached GGH with high fever on March 20 and was admitted and later tested positive for novel coronavirus. He was administered with chloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir as part of the treatment according to the protocol. He tested negative for the virus twice on April 2 and 3. Mr. Imtiaz congratulated the youth for recovering and said that the youth’s responsible act of self-isolation and approaching the doctors immediately after symptoms showed up helped him recover easily. Mr. Imtiaz lauded the efforts of the doctors and other staff at the hospital. The youth also thanked the doctors, paramedical staff and particularly the Class IV employees who gave him confidence during his stay at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishnas-first-covid-19-patient-recovers/article31260842.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea filed in HC seeking more PPEs at hospitals||All India Lawyers’ Union State general secretary N. Srinivasa Rao has emailed a letter to the Registrar (Judicial) of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, requesting him to consider it as a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) for issuing directions to the Central and State governments to provide enough Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to all the government and private hospitals and offer full protection to the doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel and sanitary workers. Mr. Srinivasa Rao stated that the governments also need to make adequate testing kits available in the hospitals to help them find the extent to which COVID-19 has spread. “The doctors and paramedics are in a peculiar situation due to the declaration of their services as essential for six months. As such, they are forced to work devoid of the necessary protective gear,” he has said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-filed-in-hc-seeking-more-ppes-at-hospitals/article31261217.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medtech zone to roll out virus testing kits soon||The Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone Ltd in Visakhapatnam is going to roll out COVID-19 testing kits in a week and ventilators by April 15 for use at the coronavirus treatment facilities in the State, said Special Chief Secretary (Industries & Commerce) Rajat Bhargava. At a press conference along with Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture and Fisheries) Poonam Malakondaiah and ex-officio Secretary T. Vijay Kumar Reddy here on Saturday, he denied the allegations that the medtech zone is being neglected by the State government. Ms. Poonam said that efforts were being made to supply 3,000 ventilators by the end of April and 6,000 every month thereafter. The companies in the zone would be able to supply 10,000 COVID-19 testing kits every week and by May the capacity would be increased to 25,000 kits. The manufacturing units had acquired all the approvals from ICMR, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medtech-zone-to-roll-out-virus-testing-kits-soon/article31261220.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online training for school librarians||The Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions (APSWREIS), in collaboration with iDream Career and UNICEF, has initiated an online training for librarians of the 189 schools it runs across the 13 districts of the State, using the Zoom application. “The objective of the training is to ensure that career counselling becomes part of the academic session. We want our librarians to get trained in the use of technology and guide the students and help them make sound choices post-schooling,” said the Society’s secretary Col. V. Ramulu. The trainers are using the AP Career Portal (www.apcareerportal.in), designed especially for Andhra Pradesh students, which helps in career mapping, understanding the needs of each child, designing a career map for the students along with helping them understand about colleges, admission process and availability of scholarships. The Society also plans to have regular training of principals and teachers via Zoom calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-training-for-school-librarians/article31261219.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure supply of essential items without hindrance: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure that there are no impediments to the supply of essential commodities during the lockdown period as the restrictions will be in force for another 10 days. At a meeting convened to review the COVID-19 situation on Saturday, the officials told the CM that the number of ‘positive’ cases reached 180, and a sizeable number of them resulted from the religious congregation at Nizamuddin. ‘Do not fleece patients’ Mr. Jagan said there should also be no disruption in the provision of emergency healthcare services and in the treatment of kidney patients, pregnant women and other seriously ill people. He warned of stringent action against doctors and hospitals fleecing patients taking advantage of the situation. The CM ordered that proper care be taken of the migrant workers who bore the brunt of the lockdown and the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-supply-of-essential-items-without-hindrance-cm/article31261221.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police chief reviews situation at red zone||Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao visited the red zone area at Kummaripalem Centre, where a 55-year-old person died due to coronavirus in the State. Mr. Tirumala Rao, along with Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikrant Patil, West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Sudhakar and Bhavanipuram CI D.K. Mohan Reddy visited the area and enquired about the steps being taken to prevent the spread of virus. He appealed to the locals to come forward voluntarily and undergo medical tests. In all, 16 persons tested positive in Vijayawada city, the Police Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-police-chief-reviews-situation-at-red-zone/article31260858.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power sector geared up for ‘lights off’ event||Sanjeev Nandan Sahai, Secretary of the Union Ministry of Power, has clarified during a video-conference with top officials of the Energy Departments that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call was for switching off domestic lights only for nine minutes starting at 9 p.m. on April 5 and the other electrical appliances could be running as usual. Street-lights would be kept on in urban and rural areas. Lighting and other appliances in hospitals, municipal services, police offices and stations, essential services and even in commercial establishments need not be switched off. Mr. Sahai said all protocols to tackle the likely impact of the switching off of the domestic lights on grid safety were in place and that there was sufficient flexible generation (hydel, gas, pumped storage etc.) to deal with contingencies. Caution for flats He said under no circumstances should any feeders at apartments and housing societies be switched off with over-enthusiasm and the State Load Dispatch Centres should take necessary steps to ensure smooth functioning of the installations. Energy Secretary and AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant and Joint Managing Director K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu took stock of the preparations. AP-Transco Director (Grid and Transmission) Praveen Kumar and DISCOMs CMDs H. Haranatha Rao (SPDCL), J. Padma Janardhan Reddy (CPDCL) and Nagalakshmi Selvarajan (EPDCL) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-sector-geared-up-for-lights-off-event/article31261218.ece
05 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers distribute food to the poor||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh United Teachers Federation (APUTF) on Saturday distributed food packets to workers in the unorganised sector who lost their livelihood due to the lockdown. Following a call given by the State unit, teachers in all districts across the State followed suit, said federation’s State general secretary P. Babu Reddy He said the teachers wanted to do their bit to help the needy, and added that teachers had been told to strictly follow the health guidelines such as maintaining a distance and wearing masks. Federation’s State secretary A. Krishnasundar Rao, Krishna district general secretary S.P. Manohar Kumar, Vijayawada city general secretary V. Kondala Rao and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-distribute-food-to-the-poor/article31260853.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert in Thatichetlapalem, Poorna Market after new cases||High alert sounded on Saturday at Thatichetlapalem and Poorna Market areas in the city after a number of COVID-19 cases have been reported from these areas over the last two days. Hundreds of surveillance teams conducted door-to-door survey to identify if any residents are suffering from COVID-19 symptoms in both the areas, while sanitation staff were seen busy conducting spraying operations on a massive scale on Saturday. It may be recalled that three persons from one family at Thatichetlapalem and another five persons from Muslim Thatichetlapalem tested positive for COVID-19. Apart from them, one COVID-19 positive case was also reported from Poorna Market area in One Town. Contacts and sanitisation According to Sub-Collector, Paderu, S. Venkateswar, who is monitoring cluster containment committee and quarantines, 1,178 teams comprising ward volunteers, health officials, ASHA workers and others have conducted survey in over 1.93 lakh households in Thatichetlapalem area. Similarly, 363 teams conducted survey in 1.29 lakh households in Poorna Market area. The teams have asked people not to come out of houses unless it is an emergency. If any person is found with any health issues, he will be put under scanner and his health condition will be monitored constantly. The teams have asked the residents to inform them in case if they suffer from any health issues. Moreover, residents of a few streets have isolated themselves by placing wooden logs at the entry and exit points. Mr. Venkateswar also said that primary and secondary contacts of all the COVID-19 cases have been identified. While the primary contacts or direct contacts have been shifted to isolation wards at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD), secondary contacts or indirect contacts were advised to stay strictly under home quarantine. “In these cases, the samples of all the primary contacts have been sent for testing and we are awaiting reports. Secondary contacts like maid, driver, neighbours, their contacts have been asked to stay in house,” he said. ‘Need not panic’ He also said that people need not panic over the situation, as officials are constantly monitoring to make sure that there is no spread of COVID-19. The three-km radius containment area from the house of positive cases have been completely sanitised by spraying sodium hypochlorite solution for disinfection, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-alert-in-thatichetlapalem-poorna-market-after-new-cases/article31261239.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apartment associations stop entry of outsiders into premises||With the number of COVID-19 cases spiking in the State gradually, a number of apartment committees have stopped entry of outsiders into their premises. Associations of several apartments have also appealed their residents not to avail services of maids and washermen. They also made it mandatory for residents to wash hands before entering their flats.JR Nagar Resident Welfare Association president K.S.R Murthy said that they framed a set of guidelines of Dos and Don’ts during this lockdown period. “Initially, we have stopped meetings and gatherings to discuss any issue. We are using phones and messages to pass circulars. We have also appealed our residents to see if it is possible to stop having maids and washermen during this period and to manage that work by their own,” he said. Several apartments in Visalakshi Nagar and MVP Colony have attached boards right in front of their gates that outsiders should come to the apartment only in case of emergency. Among them, a few have been asked to wash hands for which they have arranged water in drums. G Anitha, resident of an apartment at Madhurwada, said that if there is delivery of some essential commodities, the residents have to go down and take them. But the delivery boy is not allowed inside, she said. No walks A few gated communities have asked the residents to stop sending their children to the play arena and also not to come for morning or evening walks in the lawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apartment-associations-stop-entry-of-outsiders-into-premises/article31261246.ece
05 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 1,200 staff from other departments to assist police||About 1,200 personnel from various departments such as teaching, forests and excise have been asked to report for duty by the Collector. They will be assisting the police department during the lockdown. Ever since a nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, the police department has been facing a herculean task in covering a number of areas. The police have their hands full, as their duties include enforcing the lockdown, identifying foreign returnees, providing security at the quarantine and isolation wards, and providing surveillance in the areas where suspected cases and foreign returnees are on home quarantine. Another challenge is to identify those who have returned from the religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Markaz in Nizamuddin, Delhi. The entire 3,000 personnel of the Visakhapatnam City Police have been working under stressful conditions and there is an urgent need for more manpower as even they need some rest, said Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena. The Commissioner had requested Collector V. Vinay Chand to allot staff from departments that have been rested due to the lockdown. The Collector cleared the proposal. Now, around 1,200 personnel from various departments will assist the police and each police team on duty will be a mix of regular policemen and personnel from other departments. They will be mostly used in identifying the suspected cases and also for routine enforcement, Mr. Meena said. Close coordination A similar request was also sent to the Eastern Naval Command, and the Navy has drafted about 50 of its personnel to assist the police in enforcement duty. “The Navy has always worked in close coordination with the civil administration and the need of the hour is to reduce the load on the police force, which is doing a commendable job against the threat of COVID-19,” a senior naval officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-1200-staff-from-other-departments-to-assist-police/article31260877.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thanking those fighting against COVID-19||A family from Visakhapatnam honoured a sanitation worker by washing her feet and presenting her a sari and a pair of bangles, in recognition of the role played by her in the fight against COVID-19. A video of the incident that occurred at 104 Area in the city on Saturday went viral on social media later in the day. In the video, two children named Vynavi and Chaitanya, both residents of Bapuji Nagar in 104 Area, are seen washing the feet of a sanitation worker named Lakshmi and presenting her a sari, bangles, masks and hand sanitisers and then touching her feet to seek her blessings. B. Jagadeesh, father of the siblings, said, “At a time when we are scared of stepping out of our homes, these sanitary workers are risking their lives to ensure that the entire city is neat and clean during this COVID-19 outbreak. Working under such stressful conditions is indeed very difficult, which is why we decided to honour a sanitary worker who works in our area.” Mr. Jagadeesh said he wanted his children to be aware of the hard work put in by people across all sections of society in fighting the pandemic. Similar incidents A few days ago, a video from Patiala went viral on social media, depicting residents of an area applauding sanitation workers by showering flower petals on them. Another video from Kothapet in Hyderabad was also circulated in which residents were seen felicitating sanitation workers in their area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thanking-those-fighting-against-covid-19/article31261223.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC launches community kitchens||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) Limited, South Central Zone, had started community kitchens in Visakhapatnam and Khurda Road Divisions under East Coast Railway (E Co R) and Vijayawada Division under SCR Zone as part of the initiative to provide food to the homeless and needy. Group General Manager, IRCTC, SCZ, D. Narasinga Rao said that 26,000 meals were dispensed from Vijayawada, 8,950 meals from Khurda Road and 2,000 meals were provided from Visakhapatnam till April 4. The food will be served to needy people till the conclusion of the lockdown, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-launches-community-kitchens/article31261237.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rapid response teams to work round the clock||Twenty Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) are working in three shifts in GVMC limits to shift anyone suffering from symptoms of COVID-19 to designated hospitals, Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana said. Ms. Srijana held a coordination meeting at the Children’s Arena on Saturday, where she told reporters that the RRTs comprised a doctor, a multipurpose community health assistant, a driver and City Planning staff. The teams will be given duty passes, vehicles, masks and gloves, and will be stationed at ward secretariats. Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkatesh, Andhra Medical College principal P.V. Sudhakar, DM&HO S. Tirupathi Rao and GVMC Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rapid-response-teams-to-work-round-the-clock/article31261240.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Testing centres face shortage of chemicals’||The isolation beds at the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) and the Government ENT Hospital are fully occupied and there is no chance of admitting new cases. The swabs of suspected COVID-19 patients are not being taken, according to reliable sources. A 140-bed isolation facility has been opened at Pradhama Hospital on Saturday. This will help in overcoming the shortage of beds. There is no shortage of swab testing kits but the swabs are not being taken deliberately as the COVID-19 testing centres at Kakinada and elsewhere in the State, have run out of some chemicals, which is required for testing of swabs, according to an official source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-centres-face-shortage-of-chemicals/article31261241.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Financial aid will be given to all the poor: Minister||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the government will extend financial assistance to all eligible poor. The Minister visited Madhurawada, ward Nos. 5 and 6 and Rayalavalasa of Bheemunipatnam Assembly constituency on Saturday. He handed over Rs. 1,000 to each of the poor beneficiaries as part of the financial assistance announced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He also told them of the measures to be taken to check the spread of COVID-19. He distributed rice, potatoes, oil, eggs and other essential commodities, in packets, with donations from philanthropists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/financial-aid-will-be-given-to-all-the-poor-minister/article31261236.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: naval personnel being trained for ‘battle’||In order to cater to a large number of patients requiring medical and emotional succour in this hour of crisis, the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) is training non-medical naval personnel as ‘Battle Field Nursing Assistant’ (BFNA) to lend a helping hand to doctors and paramedics in treating COVID-19 patients in quarantine and isolation facilities. The training commenced at all stations under ENC from Friday in small batches consisting of a team of six personnel each. About 313 personnel, including 37 officers, have been trained at naval units at Visakhapatnam, Chennai and Kolkata as on Saturday. Plans have been made to train at least 75% of the non-medical personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-naval-personnel-being-trained-for-battle/article31261243.ece
05 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be aware of your rights, consumers told||H. Lajipathi Rai, Chairman of Confederation of AP Consumer Organisations (CAPCO), has called upon consumers to be aware of their right to fair prices to prevent exploitation by traders. He visited the Madhuravada vegetable market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-aware-of-your-rights-consumers-told/article31261235.ece
05 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lending a helping hand to police personnel||For many police personnel, standing for hours on end under the scorching sun while overseeing the implementation of the lockdown has become a Herculean task. The situation is pathetic for those with underlying health problems, like diabetes and blood pressure. Amidst complaints from the police that it was difficult for them to have food and medicines at the stipulated time, many organisations have come forward to offer help to those on duty. Thanks to a few organisations including Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust at Mangalamampalem in Vizianagaram, the police officers are now getting timely supply of food packets, medicines, water, tea/coffee, etc. “As many as 15,000 hand gloves and 5,000 masks are being supplied to police, doctors, medical staff, vegetable vendors and others going on duties. Essential goods are also being delivered at the doorstep of the visually challenged, who are among the worst-hit as they cannot expect assistance from anyone with the lockdown and social distancing norms in place,” said founder R. Jagadish Babu. The Trust deployed several teams at Kothavalasa, Vizianagaram, Mandasa in Srikakulam district, Yelamanchi in Visakhapatnam district and at many places in Chittoor and Nellore districts, Mr. Jagadish Babu added. Appreciating their work, Vizianagaram Revenue Divisional Officer K. Hemalatha urged all organisations to replicate the services of the Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lending-a-helping-hand-to-police-personnel/article31261231.ece
05 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical staff concerned about lack of protective gear||Many doctors and medical staff are worried about their own health, thanks to lack of minimum facilities such as masks and sanitisers, leave alone Personal Protective Equipment which is a must to provide treatment to COVID-19 patients. Fortunately, no positive cases were reported so far although results of many samples are yet to come from the laboratories of Visakhapatnam and Kakinada. Nearly fifty results are yet to come from the respective laboratories. The State government selected GEMS hospital and GMR Care Hospital in Rajam as COVID-19 hospitals in Srikakulam district. Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences of Nellimarla is the designated COVID-19 hospital for Vizianagaram district. Hospital authorities and staff have repeatedly informed government authorities about the lack of PPE for the doctors. As per the recommendations of World Health Organisation (WHO), gloves, masks, gowns, goggles, head covers, rubber boots are to be worn by the doctors and medical staff to protect themselves from infection. D.V.G. Sankara Rao, former Paravathipuram MP, who is a doctor by profession, said that protection of health of the doctors and staff was essential to prevent the spread of the disease from them to others. “The doctors can provide treatment to patients when they are assured of minimum and basic requirements. The government should try to procure them as early as possible,” said Dr. Sankara Rao. Members of various doctors’ associations and nurses associations have expressed their concern over providing treatment to regular patients too as many of them might have been infected by COVID-19. One patient who came with regular complaints died in Telangana and later it was confirmed that he had been infected by coronavirus. Protection for doctors, nurses and other staff is compulsory for providing treatment to normal patients also, said a senior government doctor. Andhra Pradesh State Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association former president V.S. Prasad said that the government should provide basic amenities for all the doctors since private hospitals were also brought under the jurisdiction of the government under Essential Services and Maintenance Act to handle COVID cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-staff-concerned-about-lack-of-protective-gear/article31261232.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A hard summer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-hard-summer/article31260822.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staying safe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staying-safe/article31261228.ece
05 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Case against Nirmal councillor||Nirmal police on Saturday arrested Kabutar Kaman councillor Chota Zaheer for obstructing ASHA workers who were conducting COVID-19 survey in the locality. A case for obstructing officials from discharge of their duties was registered against him. He hindered the work by telling locals not to produce their Aadhaar cards as required by the survey team. The workers staged a protest following this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/case-against-nirmal-councillor/article31261095.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No counsellors to counter COVID-19 anxiety||As anxiety overflows in the COVID-19 isolation wards, doctors and nurses in the State-run hospitals have been fielding a range of queries posed by patients and suspects of the contagious disease for the past month. Out of restlessness, some suspects even walk out of the wards seeking answers. Family members of suspects said that besides waiting for long hours for test results, their aged parents have had to struggle to get medicines. “My diabetic father made many requests for chapatis in place of rice. My mother got her hypertension medicines after repeatedly asking for days together. My father is admitted at Gandhi Hospital, worrying about what awaits him,” said a man in his 40s who was also admitted as a suspect. ‘No flow of information’ A COVID-19 patient, who recently got discharged, recalled how a 70-year-old with diabetes in the isolation ward had to request for chapatis multiple times. “There is no flow of information,” she said. Situations such as this are commonly observed at Gandhi Hospital, Government General and Chest Hospital, Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases where COVID-19 patients and suspects are admitted. Healthcare professionals on COVID-19 duty for the past one month broadly pointed to four stress situations — when suspects expect their test results at the earliest; when one’s sample is sent for retest to confirm if they are cured; when a patient wants to know if he/she is showing improvements or not; and finally, when they ask about getting discharged and how to battle the stigma that awaits them. Questions are aplenty, but the answers come rarely as doctors plead lack of time. In such a scenario, the healthcare staff have appealed to the State government to appoint a host of counsellors who can pacify anxious patients and suspects. “Imagine the anxiety one experiences when they are suspected of having COVID-19. They will play out multiple possibilities in their minds and that, often, is not in their control. Some possibilities might be extreme. So, we are doing our best in treating them. But we need trained counsellors who can have face-to-face conversations with the patients or suspects and calm them down,” said a doctor. Officials said that two counsellors had been appointed at Gandhi Hospital, but they got overwhelmed as the number of suspects slowly ran into hundreds. A senior doctor at Gandhi Hospital said not just in-patients, their family members too call them repeatedly with multiple queries. “They are bound to have questions which they want to get cleared at the earliest and we need a system to address this issue,” said the doctor, adding that the number of questions has been rising with the increase in the number of admissions.  We are doing our best in treating them. But we need trained counsellors who can have face-to-face conversations with the patients or suspects and calm them down. A doctor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-counsellors-to-counter-covid-19-anxiety/article31261057.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tracing, quarantining Jamaat participants proving tricky||Tracing and quarantining all participants of Tablighi Jamaat’s meeting in Delhi and identifying their contacts is a fresh challenge in the ongoing battle against COVID-19. On one hand, authorities are unable to precisely locate ‘all TJ meeting returnees’ and on the other, those traced by them are not coming forward voluntarily for diagnostic tests. ‘Counsel them, convince their families and count in local or community leaders’ is the strategy adopted by police to take them to hospitals. Yet, their efforts are not yielding 100% results with the participants unwilling to be taken to isolation or quarantine wards. “First difficulty is identifying who all from our State attended the meet in Delhi because there is no single source which has details of all,” a police officer said. On March 28, Union Ministry of Home Affairs Internal Security wing sent a communication to State government stating that teams of TJ comprising foreigners would be visiting interior parts of the country. By the time the communication was received, eight Indonesians (who came to Telangana as part of TJ team) tested positive for COVID-19. Police approached the Mallepally mosque in Hyderabad, which is said to be the nodal agency for TJ in the State, and collected details of some participants. Later, they started checking passengers who arrived by trains from Delhi to Telangana. “We collected their phone numbers and started analysing their call data record to ascertain the places they visited and people they had interacted with,” the officer explained. Collating the information thus gathered, teams of intelligence and local police were sent for field inquiries. Still they were missing some persons because some travelled in general compartments of the trains. “Our goal is to identify the co-passengers as well because they too may have contracted the virus,” he added. Inquiries revealed that those hailing from Kurnool and Kadapa in Andhra Pradesh, Kalburgi of Karnataka and Latur of Maharashtra went to the meeting under the auspices of Mallepally mosque. They came to Hyderabad and boarded trains from here. Police found that those who went from Hyderabad were divided into 58 sub-groups. After identifying the returnees, police began preparing lists of their primary and secondary contacts. In Narmetta area of Jangaon district, one returnee was found to have interacted with nearly 60 persons as he was a meat seller. “We are persuading all TJ meeting returnees to attend diagnostic tests and get admitted in isolation wards. Not all are forthcoming. Convincing their casual contacts to get home quarantined is even tougher,” police officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tracing-quarantining-jamaat-participants-proving-tricky/article31261061.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS power utilities gear up to manage load during ‘light switch-off’||The power utilities of Telangana are totally geared up to manage the grid frequency in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to people across the country to switch-off lighting in their homes for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on Sunday, as a mark of solidarity in the fight against COVID-19. Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Transco and TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao said on Saturday that all necessary steps were being taken to address the sudden fluctuation in the demand (load) before and after the event as also during the nine-minute period. He stated that they have estimated that the load reduction could be in the range of 500 MW to 700 MW in Telangana as it would be only from the domestic sector. They were prepared to manage the demand slump even up to 1,100 MW during the period. Appeal to people He, however, appealed people to continue energy consumption for their other domestic needs such as for refrigerator, air-conditioner, other home and kitchen appliances such as fans, television sets, grinders, food processors, as also the domestic and agricultural pumpsets, during the period, as usual. A special monitoring cell has been put in place to manage the demand variation and to ensure smooth and safe operation of the grid. The cell would be operational at the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) at Vidyut Soudha. Mr. Prabhakar Rao further stated that the SLDC would continuously monitor the load and generation patterns and would take instant corrective actions in coordination with the Southern Regional Load Dispatch Centre at Bengaluru. All the extra high voltage (EHV) sub-stations and 33/11 KV sub-stations would be personally manned by the engineers concerned for scrupulous implementation of the grid safety mechanism. ‘Don’t believe rumours’ He also appealed to the consumers not to believe the rumours being spread through social media about the grid safety and asked consumers to utilise energy for all other needs except lighting during the nine-minute period as the electricity engineers and other staff would put in all efforts to overcome the situation. Meanwhile, the Power System Operation Corporation (POSCO), which monitors the demand-supply position round-the-clock, said that there were 4,38,54,642 rural household and 46,68,665 urban household consumers in the SRLDC purview and the total load reduction during the nine-minute period is estimated at 2,660 MW in the Southern Region. The POCSO has also stated that the total rural household consumers are 61,57,086 and the urban household consumers are 4,42,654 in Telangana and the total load reduction would be about 352 MW with 80% of consumers switching off the lights by responding to the PM’s call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-power-utilities-gear-up-to-manage-load-during-light-switch-off/article31261086.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO comes up with more products to tackle COVID-19||The Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) has announced a few more products made by its scientists with indigenous technologies to combat coronavirus pandemic. The Centre for Fire Explosive & Environment Safety (CFEES), Delhi, developed two configurations of sanitising equipment which are spin-offs from technologies developed for fire suppression applications. First is a portable sanitisation equipment for spraying decontamination solution consisting of 1% Hypochlorite (HYPO) solution for sanitisation of suspected area. The backpack generates very fine mist and is capable of disinfecting an area up to 300 metres whereas the trolley mounted large area sanitisation equipment can spray the disinfectant liquid up to 3,000 metres. It has a tank capacity of 50 litres and has a throw distance of 12-15 metres. The Delhi Police has been supplied with these machines and the same can be supplied to others too, informed an official spokesperson. Ahmednagar-based DRDO laboratory, VRDE, has designed full body disinfection chamber called as ‘Personnel Sanitisation Enclosure’ where a walk through enclosure is designed for personnel decontamination, one person at a time. This is a portable system equipped with sanitiser and soap dispenser. On entering the chamber, electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chlorite. The mist spray is calibrated for an operation of 25 seconds and stops automatically indicating completion of operation but the person has to keep eyes closed inside the chamber. The system consists of roof mounted and bottom tanks with a total of 700 litres capacity. About 650 personnel can pass through the chamber for disinfection until the refill is required. It can be seen through glass panels on side walls for monitoring purpose and is fitted with lights for illumination during nights with a an operator cabin to monitor. It has been manufactured with the help of M/s Dass Hitachi Ltd, Ghaziabad, within four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drdo-comes-up-with-more-products-to-tackle-covid-19/article31261065.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Private clinics pulled up for negligence||Health officials in Rangareddy district have threatened to take action under Epidemics Diseases Act, 1897 and other laws if any private hospital management, polyclinics, Registered Medical Practitioners (RMPs) and Private Medical Practitioners (PMP) fail to report COVID-19 patients or suspects.  Rangareddy’s District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) K. Swarajya Lakshmi issued a circular to this effect on Saturday. This came after a 55-year-old woman from Chegur village in Nandigama mandal who died on April 3 tested positive for COVID-19. Similar instructions had been passed on to private health facilities a few weeks ago. Delhi link Till Friday, the Health officials were grappling to figure out how she contracted the infectious disease. However, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that she had met some people who returned from a religious meeting in Delhi and added that all cases being detected currently are of people who have returned from Markaz (New Delhi), or their contacts. The woman used to run a kirana store in the village. After falling ill and developing throat pain on March 31, she visited a private clinic and a dental clinic. She was then referred to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) on April 1 and she died on Friday. Based on suspicion, her swab samples were collected and tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. Villagers quarantined Cyberabad police stated that people in the village have been urged to be under home quarantine for 14 days. Four youngsters — three from Bihar — who stay in a rented room of her building, travelled from Nizamuddin, New Delhi, to Hyderabad by AP Sampark Kranthi train. Earlier, officials suspected that people who went to Markaz, New Delhi, had travelled by the same train. Those who participated in her funeral were admitted to isolation wards at Gandhi Hospital, and her family members are under quarantine. The DMHO stated in the circular that the woman visited a private clinic where a person named Pratap Reddy provided primary treatment, and referred her to Vithallaiah at a dental clinic in Shadnagar. “Those private doctors failed to report the issue to the Health department, revenue authorities or police officials. This clearly shows the negligence in control of the pandemic by the private hospitals/ clinics,” the DMHO stated. The private hospitals and clinics were asked to report COVID-19 patients or suspects to the authorities or dial toll free number 1800 425 0817 or on 040-23230811/13/14/17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-clinics-pulled-up-for-negligence/article31261076.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Taking care of migrant workers||Migrants in Malkajgiri constituency, unable to go to their respective states due to the lockdown, are being supplied food with various camps set up to meet their needs. Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency in-charge of TRS Marri Rajashekar Reddy has set up four centres to serve food about 2,000 people daily. They are being provided basic amenities like food and water as well as shelters that have been set up at Deewan function hall, Medchal, Government School, Athwelly apart from a few centres in Gandimaisamma. Mr. Reddy, who is also secretary of MLR Institutions, said that food is being prepared at MLRIT College that has kitchens set up for its students. “This is to support migrant workers on the call given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that no migrant worker in Telangana should go without food,” he said. MLRIT institutions is also supporting hundreds of workers in their colleges by providing them food grains. Several non-teaching staff of the colleges stay nearby and the management has also distributed food and other essential items to them in this hour of crisis, Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/taking-care-of-migrant-workers/article31261068.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Churches offer their facilities as quarantine centres||The Federation of Telugu Churches (FTC) has offered hospitals, schools, training centres and churches of its member constituents to the Telangana government for several purposes, including as quarantine centres. In a media statement, the FTC said, “With the view to augment the efforts of State government to contain COVID-19, member churches of FTC express willingness to place hospitals, schools, training centres and church campuses at the disposal of the government wherever the government and public facilities are not available, for sheltering the homeless and migrants, for storing provisions, and for quarantine purposes.” District officials, FTC stated, can use the facilities after communicating their intention to the local management. It also requested the government to return the properties after thoroughly sanitising them. Meanwhile, it also announced that it has put all worship services, prayer meetings and religious gatherings in the churches and their institutions on hold in line with the instructions of the Centre and State governments. FTC Executive Secretaries Rev. Fr. Anthoniraj Thumma and B.Danam, in separate letters written to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy said that the worship services in the churches will be on hold till the restrictions on public gatherings is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/churches-offer-their-facilities-as-quarantine-centres/article31261073.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||17 test positive for COVID in four Telangana districts||The district authorities in Telangana were on their toes on Saturday as 17 positive cases of COVID-19 were reported from different districts. The gravity of COVID spread in Adilabad district became evident on Saturday when as many as 10 Jamaat returnees tested positive for the viral infection taking everyone concerned by surprise. Of the 81 samples of suspects from the different isolation wards, including the 11 of primary contacts of the Hasnapur positive case, sent for test to Centre For Cellular and Microbiology (CCMB), reports of 45 were received of which 35 tested negative, according to Collector A. Sridevasena. Reports from samples of remaining suspects would be received on Sunday, according to sources. Authorities have begun the follow-up action on identification of primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases, six of whom are from the district headquarters, three from Neredigonda mandal headquarters and one from Hasnapur village in Utnoor mandal. Two of the positive cases, both from Adilabad town are aged 72 years while two others are in their 20s. The remaining are in the age group of 30 to 50 years. The first positive case was known on Friday night when the report of a 24-year-old Jamaat returnee from Hasnapur was received by authorities. He is known to have come into contact with hundreds of people after coming back from Delhi on March 19 including attending a wedding at Utnoor attended by an estimated 200 to 500 invitees. Sealed off Hasnapur village and NTR Nagar and Hanuman Nagar localities in Utnoor mandal headquarters were sealed off completely. Four more persons from Nalgonda tested positive for COVID, taking the total to 14, as per a report released by the District Medical & Health Officer. Results of 39 COVID suspects are awaited. As on Saturday, 40 people were in a government quarantine centre and 9,131 are quarantined at their respective homes. Two Delhi-returnees staying in a quarantine tested positive for the viral infection in Jagtial district on Saturday. Officials said that they had quarantined 73 persons in various parts of the district and sent samples for tests. The two positive cases were shifted to Gandhi Hospital. Case in Ramagundam The Peddapalli district administration has sounded high alert, following one person testing positive in the Ramagundam coal belt area on Saturday. The administration had announced ‘red zone’ in Annapurna colony in the 2nd division of Ramagundam Municipal Corporation covering a radius of one kilometre and barricaded the entire colony and deployed police forces restricting the movement of residents into their homes. Three persons from the Ramagundam municipality who attended Markaz prayers in Delhi were shifted to the Gandhi Hospital for isolation. Two wards, Veerabhadra Nagar and Osman Nagar of Sangareddy district headquarters town from where two COVID cases were taken over by the district administration on Saturday. Widespread sanitisation The authorities have sprayed sodium hypochlorite and potasium hypochlorite using drones in the identified areas. Meanwhile, Khammam district Collector has directed the district health authorities to set up isolation wards comprising 5-10 beds each in all the Primary Health Centres (PHCs) as part of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus .  (With inputs from our correspondents in Adilabad, Nalgonda, Karimnagar, Sangareddy and Khammam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/17-test-positive-for-covid-in-four-telangana-districts/article31261083.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Procurement rules relaxed for COVID-19 relief||Finance Department has issued special instructions for procurement of medical, surgical equipment and other essential supplies for COVID-19 relief operations. The Government Order No.29 issued on April 4 said that the prevailing conditions of health emergency would require immediate procurement of certain diagnostic, surgical and other medical equipment, drugs and pharmaceutical and other essential services and related supplies on priority for undertaking COVID-19 relief operations. They also have to be procured in quickest possible manner and procurement procedures have to be adapted.  Specific guidelines Accordingly, the GO permitted relaxation of provisions of Article 125 of TS Financial Code and related government orders on the subject in respect of diagnostics and other above mentioned equipment and services subject to following conditions: The procurement in the first instance be made either from suppliers already empaneled on Rate Contract or through Governmet e-Marketplace if the same meets the required time lines and quantities. If procurement is not possible from empaneled suppliers, the same may be undertaken from any other source at the Rate Contract or Government e-Market rates or rates that are deemed reasonable. The GO also listed out modalities for procurement from one supplier or multiple suppliers with the approval of Medical and Health Department. The relaxations permitted under the GO 29 will be in force from March 14 to May 31, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/procurement-rules-relaxed-for-covid-19-relief/article31261089.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam asks CM to let MGNREGA field assistants return to work||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday demanded that the State government restore the services of 7,500 field assistants who work for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) in view of coronavirus situation. In an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here, he said that the MGNREGA fields assistants went on strike following imposition of new conditions for renewal of their contracts. As per the circular, it was proposed that the contracts of those field assistants would not be renewed who fail to meet the targets. However, in view of situation that emerged due to coronavirus, the field assistants have offered to call off the strike unconditionally to rejoin duties. He said that the ongoing lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus had a negative impact on the labourers in rural areas and the State government need to undertake lot of works under MGNREGA to provide them work as well as increase their income as per the package announced recently by the Centre as a part of the PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-asks-cm-to-let-mgnrega-field-assistants-return-to-work/article31261093.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pay full salaries to other frontline staff: Congress||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy urged the State government to pay full salaries to the employees of Revenue, Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration and Urban Development departments. In a statement here, Narayana Reddy said that employees of these departments have been working hard day and night in anti-coronavirus operations across the State taking care of logistics and providing other support during the lockdown period. He said that the municipal employees were actively taking part in spraying operations and other activities. Similarly, Revenue and Panchayat Raj employees were playing a crucial role in rural areas. He said any deduction in salaries of employees of key departments would demoralise the staff and impact their performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pay-full-salaries-to-other-frontline-staff-congress/article31261094.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Don’t believe rumours on Inter exams’||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has cautioned students not to believe in fake news being spread on social media that the advanced supplementary examinations will not be held this year. BIE Secretary Omer Jaleel said that he had come across a note in the name of BIE being circulated on social media that evaluation of Intermediate answer sheets has been postponed and supplementary examinations would not be held. This is utterly false and fake, he said and asked students not to believe in such rumours. Mr. Jaleel said that evaluation of papers will continue as and when lockdown is lifted and the process will continue and no decision has been taken to cancel the supplementary and improvement examinations as is being spread on social media platforms. A police complaint is also being lodged to trace the people spreading such false news, he said and asked people not to share such fake information on their social media platforms. The BIE will keep the students and parents informed through the mainstream media on the developments as and when required and they should be beware of the fake news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-believe-rumours-on-inter-exams/article31261092.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safety gear donated||Founder of Kovida Sahrudaya Foundation G. Anukhya Reddy donated 100 personal protective equipment (PPE) used by doctors, 500 soaps, 250 litres of sanitiser, and masks to the Resident Medical Officer of Niloufer Hospital G. Anuradha in the presence of Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. According to a Raj Bhavan statement, the NGO also handed over masks and food packets to GHMC sanitation workers and staffers at Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/safety-gear-donated/article31261058.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||15 discharged from Gandhi Hospital||The 15 persons, who were discharged from Gandhi Hospital on Friday night after recovering from COVID-19, left on Saturday morning. On the whole, 32 people were discharged from the tertiary care hospital and Government General and Chest Hospital. Officials said that paper work, time of the day, and distance from hospital to their homes, held them back from letting the recovered go at night. A few of them were from far-away districts. This is the highest number of patients discharged on a single day. The 15 cured patients included a 24-year-old woman from Bhadradri Kothagudem with travel history from Italy. She was the second patient from the State. A few more patients would be discharged in the coming few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/15-discharged-from-gandhi-hospital/article31261059.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man steals 26 whiskey bottles from wine shop||While there has been a drop in housebreaking and theft cases across the State amid the ongoing lockdown, an unidentified man broke into a wine shop at Bhoiguda and decamped with 26 whiskey bottles. Gandhi Nagar police of Hyderabad commissionerate said that the incident occurred in the wee hours of Tuesday but came to light only on Friday, when liquor shop owner Ramesh noticed that a few CCTV cameras were not functioning and rushed to the spot. “Soon after they alerted us, we found that 26 bottles of whiskey and Rs. 8,000 were missing,” said Detective Inspector P. Pramod Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-steals-26-whiskey-bottles-from-wine-shop/article31261069.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boarding facility, regular check-ups for EFLU foreign students||English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar has said that 88 foreign students are presently residing on the campus apart from four Indians, after the hostels were vacated due to lockdown. All those on campus are being provided boarding facility and regular health check-ups, he said. Prof. Suresh explained the steps being taken to safeguard foreign students at a video conference held by Union Minister of Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank with VCs of 40 Central Universities. Prof. Suresh mentioned that the university is conducting online classes for regular courses through Google Classroom and Skype, and nearly 90% students are attending them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/boarding-facility-regular-check-ups-for-eflu-foreign-students/article31261067.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SCR 2nd milk tanker spl for Delhi||SCR has dispatched the second consignment of ‘Doodh Duronto Special’ (Railway milk tankers) from Renigunta to Delhi (Hazrat Nizamuddin) on Saturday. This train consists of six milk tankers, each with a capacity of 40,000 litres, totalling 2.40 lakh litres, one parcel van loaded with mangoes from Renigunta and Secunderabad with 23 tonnes capacity. It also has another parcel van loaded with musk melons from Guntakal with 23 tonnes capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-2nd-milk-tanker-spl-for-delhi/article31261062.ece
05 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Help to rly porters||The SCR’s commercial department has come to the rescue of licenced porters, who have lost their source of income due to the lockdown. The Hyderabad division distributed rice, dal, oil packets, flour, salt, soaps, sanitary kits and other grocery items, to 101 porters at Kacheguda, Kurnool city, Gadwal, Kamareddy and Nizamabad stations. In addition, Rs. 2,600 cash was given to each porter in Kurnool. Guntakal division too distributed basic grocery and Rs. 500 cash each to 40 porters across the division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/help-to-rly-porters/article31261066.ece
05 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN,TELANGANA||Warangal move to trace Delhi returnees, contacts||Amid fear of local transmission of coronavirus spreading, the Urban District administration has intensified efforts to trace those attended Markaz prayers in Delhi, and their primary and secondary contacts. The district administration has been on high alert since 26 COVID positive cases are from the erstwhile Warangal district, majority of them from the city. Urban District Collector Rajeev Gandhi Hanumanthu, Commissioner of Police V Ravinder and Greater Warangal Municipal Commissioner Pamela Satpathy have been supervising the medical and sanitation teams’ efforts to check the spread of the virus. The Greater Warangal authorities have pressed 450 teams into service to carry a door-to-door survey, covering nearly 45,000 households to identify the persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and their primary contacts. In all, the authorities have so far identified 152 primary contacts. All the 26 who tested positive for COVID-19 were shifted to Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad. “Efforts are on to supply essentials to 41,783 households,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warangal-move-to-trace-delhi-returnees-contacts/article31261096.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In safe hands!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-safe-hands/article31261075.ece
05 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Eight new COVID-19 cases in Noida||Uttar Pradesh’s GautamBuddha Nagar has recorded eight new positive COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 58 — the highest in the State, officials said. An official release stated that four persons from JJ Colony in Noida’s Sector 5 have tested positive. A health department official said one person, who works in Cease-Fire Company, infected three of his family members. With this, the number of cases linked to the company has reached 31. Meanwhile, one person has been found infected by the virus in Noida’s Sector 135. Three persons from Sector 62 have been tested positive. Their details are being ascertained. In Ghaziabad, a woman, has tested positive for COVID-19. The total number of cases in the city is now 14. N.K. Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad has appealed to all those residents who have visited the district after March 5to reveal their details by calling the Corona Control Centre. “FIRs would be lodged against those who do not disclose their details,” an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eight-new-covid-19-cases-in-noida/article31261017.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||108 employees of Ganga Ram Hospital placed in quarantine||As many as 108 employees of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) here, including doctors and nurses, have been quarantined after they came in contact with two patients who have tested positive for COVID-19, said authorities on Saturday. Shifted to other hospital “The two people were admitted at the hospital last month for some other reasons. Later, they developed symptoms of COVID-19 and tested positive. They have been shifted to other hospitals,” an official at the hospital said. “At present, none of the quarantined staff has reported symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 infection,” said chairman of the hospital S. Rana. “In all, 108 SGRH staff, including doctors, nurses, ward boys and other para-medical staff who were incidentally exposed to these patients have been quarantined as per WHO defined criteria. Out of the 108 employees, 23 have been quarantined in the hospital and attached hostel facility. The rest have been told to go into home quarantine,” the statement read. The hospital did not disclose further details about the case. A doctor at the hospital, however, said that the employees have been in quarantine since Thursday and five of them are doctors. “The two patients who tested positive were unrelated cases and were admitted to the High Dependency Unit (HDU). After testing positive, the HDU was sanitised and we are also keeping a close watch on other patients who were in the ward along with them,” the doctor told The Hindu . The doctor added that the hospital’s overall functioning has not been affected by the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/108-employees-of-ganga-ram-hospital-placed-in-quarantine/article31261026.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||59 fresh cases in the Capital||Fifty-nine new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total number to 445. No death was reported. Of the 59 fresh cases, 42 are people from a centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin. A total of 301 people from the centre have so far tested positive for COVID-19 in Delhi alone. So far, six people have died due to the virus in the city, while 15 have been discharged. A total of 3,531 people are lodged in quarantine facilities and around 20,000 people are in home quarantine, said the government. Local transmission During a digital press conference, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that local transmission cases were stable at 40 and assured citizens that the Delhi government had been successful in containing community spread of the virus in the city. “Around 11 patients are in ICU and five are on ventilators. We can say that this is local transmission and not community transmission. In community transmission, people do not get to know from whom they are getting infected but right now no such situation has occurred in Delhi,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “We have traced 2,300 people from the Niazamuddin centre out of which 500 are admitted to hospitals and around 1,800 are in quarantine. We are testing the 500 people as they have symptoms and may be suffering from COVID-19, which means the number of cases in Delhi will increase. But I want to reiterate that this is not community transmission so there is nothing to worry about yet,” he said. Of the six people who have died, three were from the Tablighi Jamaat centre. Five of the deceased also had pre-existing conditions, Mr. Kejriwal said, adding: “I want to request all senior citizens to be cautious and not go outside.” ‘I am monitoring the situation in Delhi and I every a record of every person affected by COVID-19. We will ensure the best health facility and treatment to these patients,” said Mr. Kejriwal. The CM added that the Delhi government had distributed lunch to around 6,63,928 people and dinner to around 6,78,544 people on Friday. We are making arrangements to feed over 10,00,00 people, he said. Mr. Kejriwal said that it had already been decided that 7.5 kg of ration will be given to 71 lakh people who have ration cards. “There are around 6,50,000 people who had earlier applied for ration cards but did not get it. These people will also now get ration,” he said, adding: “We have created a website for people who do not have a ration card. A form has to be filled out to get registered and receive the benefit of free ration… around 50,000 have already registered... All these people will get 5 kg of free ration.”  Mr. Kejriwal added that health workers in the city were in urgent need of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and that he had written to the Centre requesting more gear.    (With inputs from   Nikhil M Babu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/59-fresh-cases-in-the-capital/article31261023.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Centre did not give Delhi a single rupee: Sisodia||Finance Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged that the BJP-ledCentre was exhibiting “shameful and stepmotherly” treatment towards the Delhi government by not providing adequate relief assistance to fight the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr. Sisodia wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman saying Rs. 17,287 crore was provided to other States as emergency assistance for the fight against COVID-19 but the Centre was ignoring the needs of Delhi during this crisis and called it “disappointing”. “The whole nation is suffering from COVID-19 and the Delhi government and the people here are working collectively with the Centre to fight it. Yesterday [Friday], the Centre provided emergency disaster management relief assistance worth Rs. 17,000 crore to all States but Delhi was not given a single rupee,” he alleged. This has come as “a huge shock” and “disappointment” to the government, he added. Playing politics “The Centre is not expected to play politics in such a situation, neither in a federal structure nor in these times of a calamity that has arisen before us…Delhi is the national capital of the country, and the Central and the State government are working together in Delhi to contain COVID-19. Not providing any kind of assistance to Delhi just shows that the Centre is playing politics even in the times of a calamity like COVID-19,” he stated. Terming the situation “unfortunate”, Mr. Sisodia said that Delhi had been at the forefront of fighting a battle against the virus, alongside the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-did-not-give-delhi-a-single-rupee-sisodia/article31261029.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal, Sisodia and experts address parents in live interactive session||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his DeputyManish Sisodia on Saturday conducted a live interactive session — Parenting in the Time of Corona — which sought to address the Capital’s 44 lakh children and their parents regarding concerns ranging from those related to the ongoing pandemic to its effect on the academic year. Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Sisodia, also the Education Minister, took questions on COVID-19 and urged parents to explain to their children sensitively about the “gravity of the situation”. The Ministers were joined by Director of Education Vinay Bhushan and CEO of Meraki Foundation Seemant Dhadwal. “If we talk about Delhi, 44 lakh students are studying in schools, including civic bodies, private and government ones. As a result of the lockdown, children are at home. It is very important to understand how to sail through these tough times. The aim is to effectively utilise our time and that is why we are holding this discussion,” Mr. Sisodia said. “We had to shut schools for the last 15-20 daysdue to the extraordinary situation that has arisen worldwide. The only way that we can save ourselves from the virus is by following social distancing norms. To ensure good health, we had to shut down schools 15-20 days back,” Mr. Kejriwal said. In response to a question regarding how parents should cope up with the changing situation, Mr. Kejriwal said children were asking why they could not go out if they were not infected. “They should be explained the character of the virus, under which the contagious nature of the virus cannot be detected until 14 daysSo, everyone should avoid going out to not be the carriers of the disease,” he said. In response to a question related to how children could get over boredom during the ongoing lockdown, Mr. Dhadwal said parents should maintain a schedule for their wards. Mr. Bhushan said, “The children should take part in creative works like painting or writing.” Fee issue in pvt. schools Responding to a question on why private schools were charging fees for the months when classes were not taking place, Mr. Kejriwal sought suggestions on finding a solution to the issue. He also said, on one hand, some families are facing an economic crisis due to the lockdown while on the other hand, private schools depend on the fees to pay the salary of the teachers and others. “I will request the experts to give us suggestions on how we can solve this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-sisodia-and-experts-address-parents-in-live-interactive-session/article31261028.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Jamia PhD student falsely implicated in anti-CAA case’||The Jamia Coordiniation Committee on Saturday maintained that Meeran Haider, a PhD student of the Jamia Millia Islamia, was being “falsely implicated and targeted” because of his involvement in anti-CAA protests. “He was involved with the anti-CAA protests which took place over the last few months and is now being targeted for this reason. Hopefully, the investigation will reveal the truth. We have no option but to fight a legal battle and firmly believe in the judiciary,” said a member of the JCC. Demanding his immediate release, the JCC had on April 2said, “It is shameful that even in circumstances like these, voices from minority communities are targeted by the State. The country is facing a massive health crisis, however, the state machinery is busy in harassing and framing student-activists in false cases to suppress voices of dissent.” In a series of tweets, it said: “He [Mr. Haider] is being falsely framed and implicated by the State. If you think this scares us, it doesn’t. It makes us stronger, bolder...arresting him is a failed attempt by the fascist State to intimidate the students of Jamia and suppress anti-CAA protests. We will not be silenced by this.” Arrested on Thursday The police on Thursday had arrested Mr. Haider for his alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jamia-phd-student-falsely-implicated-in-anti-caa-case/article31261016.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Over 3,700 detained, 167 cases registered for lockdown violations in Delhi: Police||Over 160 cases have been registered and 3,747 people detained in Delhi on Saturday for violating the government orders during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, the police said. According to the data shared by police, 167 cases have been registered under Section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 p.m. Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-3700-detained-167-cases-registered-for-lockdown-violations-in-delhi-police/article31261018.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested in Jamia violence case||A 38-year-old man, Ashu Khan from Jamia Nagar's Abul Fazal Enclave, has been arrested in connection with incident of violence that broke out at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 15, the police said on Saturday. He was produced before the court and police has obtained two days custody for the accused, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-in-jamia-violence-case/article31261021.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||City limits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-limits/article31261020.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||FIR against JNU student for violating lockdown rules||The police have registered an FIR against a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for allegedly not adhering to the lockdown guidelines on April 1 and instead manhandling security staff. The student, Pranav Menon, who came to the North Gate of the university at 8 p.m., had asked the security staff to let him go outside, they said. The staff did not allow him, saying he needs to take permission from the authorities. Mr. Menon then told the staff that if they won’t let him go, he would cough at them and “spread Corona” after which he sat at the gate. Further, when the staff tried to remove him, he misbehaved with them. He then called other students at the spot. Based on the complaint submitted by Chief Security Officer, an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC have been registered at Vasant Kunj police station and probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-jnu-student-for-violating-lockdown-rules/article31261022.ece
05 April 2020||Bhopal,||Adivasi man dies after police thrash villagers||The family of a 65-year-old Adivasi man has alleged that he was beaten to death by the Dhar police while he was waiting outside a grocery shop on Friday morning. The district administration, however, claims the senior citizen died of a heart attack on seeing the police. The deceased, Tibu Meda, of Holimal village in Khargone district, had gone with his son-in-law Sanjay Meda to Gujari village in the neighbouring Dhar district as the shop in his village had run out of supplies. “The police came in four or five vehicles, and started beating us with batons without provocation,” said Mr. Sanjay Meda. “We ran in different directions. I received injuries on my legs.” Denying the allegation, Dhar Collector Shrikant Banoth told The Hindu that the elderly man had died due to a cardiac arrest on seeing the police approach them with blaring sirens. “The post-mortem report has revealed he died of cardiac arrest and there were no bruises on the body,” he claimed. The administration had recorded statements of witnesses, he added. “The police had gone there to impose social distancing norms in view of the lockdown. They had received a complaint of crowding in the market area.” However, Congress MLA from Dharampuri, Panchilal Meda, who reached the spot after the incident, told reporters he had seen bruises on Tibu Meda’s body. “I have seen his body, and there are bruises on the face and the head. I request the Collector to get the body examined at the district hospital. Those involved in the incident must be punished,” he said. ‘Covering up’ Tibu had gone to the Gujari market as the shop in his village had run out of stock, said M.D. Choubey, State president of the Kendriya Manav Adhikar Suraksha Sangathan, a human rights group. “There are open bruises on his body. The police didn’t even enquire with them [the villagers], but started beating them,” he alleged. Accusing the administration of covering up the incident, Madhuri Krishnaswamy of the Jagrit Adivasi Dalit Sangathan demanded that another post-mortem be conducted and a case be registered against the accused policemen under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/adivasi-man-dies-after-police-thrash-villagers/article31261012.ece
05 April 2020||Kolkata,||11 more COVID-19 cases in Bengal||Eleven more cases of COVID-19 were reported in West Bengal in the past 24 hours, taking the number of the patients to 49. One of those tested positive is a person from Haldia in Purba Medinipur who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi recently. “Eleven active cases have been reported since yesterday. There have been no deaths,” West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha told journalists at the State Secretariat. He said the number of deaths in the State remains at three, and four more deaths of COVID-19 positive with co-morbid conditions will be audited by an expert group. On why the State Health Department has discontinued the daily bulletin on its website, Mr. Sinha said he will ensure that the figures are updated. Mr. Sinha said that so far 1,040 tests have been conducted in the State and seven testing centres, including two in private facilities, have been opened. The number of institutional quarantine centres stands at 511.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/11-more-covid-19-cases-in-bengal/article31261013.ece
05 April 2020||Patna,||Bihar farmers facing acute labour crunch||The lockdown has posed a serious problem for farmers in Bihar, as it has restricted their movement and led to a shortage of labourers to harvest their rabi crops. The situation has not improved despite the government announcing lifting of curbs in their movement. Earlier, the government lifted restrictions on movements of farmers and labourers and gave necessary directions to the District Magistrates and other officials. It also asked farmers and labourers to take required precautions while working in the fields. “As this is the harvest season of rabi crops, the farmers and agricultural labourers are required to go to their fields for harvesting… they should go and do their work but following social distancing and taking all necessary precautions,” said Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The Bihar Agriculture Department also issued advertisements in local newspapers about several dos and don’ts for farmers and labourers. With the rabi crops ripened in agricultural fields, the farmers appear a worried lot as letting the ripened crops to stay for a longer time in the field is fraught with too many risks like fire, strong westerly winds. “It will be good if we can harvest our crops in the next few days, otherwise, the strong westerly winds and hailstorms would damage it,” Satish Kumar, a farmer of Punpun block in Patna district, told The Hindu over phone, adding, “the quality of grains too would be impacted.” The farmers also face the crisis of finding operators for combined harvesters that speed up harvesting and threshing. “We normally hire such operators from Punjab, Haryana or neighbouring States like Uttar Pradesh but due to lockdown they too are unable to come,” Rajesh Singh, a farmer from from Sindhaulia of Gopalganj district, said. State Agricultural Secretary N. Saravana Kumar recently announced that all these operators would be issued passes by their respective District Magistrate’s office. However, several marginal and farmers with several acres of farmland The Hindu spoke to rue the crisis of agricultural labourers and harvest operators. “Even we cannot move about for fear of COVID-19 or the police,” said Rameshwar Yadav, a farmer of Bidupur in Vaishali district. “The migrants labourers who have recently come to the State from outside are so scared that they don’t want to work in the fields,” he added. “ Ab uparwale ka hi bharosa hai (Now only God can save us),” said Rameshwar’s brother Dhananjay, also a marginal farmer.  Farm workers should go and do their work but follow social distancing and take all necessary precautions Nitish Kumar Bihar Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-farmers-facing-acute-labour-crunch/article31261015.ece
05 April 2020||Madrid,||Americans told to wear face masks||Americans on Saturday came to grips with recommendations to wear masks against the coronavirus, while Spain added to hopes that Europe could be turning a corner in the pandemic with a second daily drop in deaths. Since COVID-19 emerged late last year, more than 1.1 million people have fallen ill. More than 60,000 people have died. Europe accounts for the lion’s share of virus fatalities, but America logged another rise in its death toll to bring the total to just over 7,100. On Saturday, New York State’s toll rose at a devastating pace to 3,565 deaths, Governor Andrew Cuomo said, up from 2,935 the previous day, the largest 24-hour jump recorded there. President Donald Trump’s administration on Friday suggested widespread use of simple masks or scarves might help slow the spread — even if the U.S. leader said he himself wouldn't be following the advice. “It’s going to be really a voluntary thing,” Mr. Trump said. “You don’t have to do it and I’m choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it and that’s okay.” Anthony Fauci, head of infectious diseases at the National Institutes of Health, cited “recent information that the virus can actually be spread even when people just speak as opposed to coughing and sneezing”. The World Health Organization has been more cautious, saying the airborne threat was only known to occur during certain medical treatments. The U.S. recommendation will likely worsen an already severe shortage of masks in the U.S. and Europe, which both rely heavily on imports from China. Officials in New York, the worst affected part of the U.S., began advising people to wear masks some days ago, and there were signs on the streets that the advice was being heeded. Hope in Europe In Europe, Italy and Spain continue to bear the brunt of a pandemic that has kept millions of citizens confined to their homes, closed schools and businesses and overwhelmed healthcare systems. But official figures suggested unprecedented measures to restrict people’s movements were working and that the peak may have hit on the continent. Spain, which is under a near-total lockdown, on Saturday recorded a second successive daily fall in coronavirus-related deaths with 809 fatalities. The total number of deaths in the country now stands at 11,744, second only to Italy. The number of new Spanish cases also slowed at 7,026, taking the total to 1,24,736. Italy reported late on Friday that the daily rise of officially registered infections dropped to a new low of just 4%, while the number of people who had fully recovered was rising. In Germany, where the death toll rose again on Saturday, Chancellor Angela Merkel said figures showing the virus’s spread was slowing “give us a little bit of hope”. “But it is definitely much too early to see a clear trend in that, and it is certainly too early to think in any way about relaxing the strict rules we have given ourselves,” she said. German authorities joined the U.S. and other countries in encouraging citizens to wear self-made masks in public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/americans-told-to-wear-face-masks/article31260760.ece
05 April 2020||Wuhan,||China pauses in memory of virus victims and ‘martyrs’||China came to a standstill on Saturday to mourn patients and medical staff killed by the coronavirus, as the world’s most populous country observed a nationwide three-minute silence. At 10 a.m. local time, citizens paused, cars, trains and ships sounded their horns, and air-raid sirens rang out in memory of the more than 3,000 lives claimed by the virus in China. In Wuhan — the city where the virus first emerged late last year — sirens and horns sounded as people fell silent in the streets. Tongji Hospital staff stood outside with heads bowed towards the main building, some in the protective hazmat suits that have become a symbol of the crisis worldwide. “I feel a lot of sorrow about our colleagues and patients who died,” Xu, a nurse at Tongji who worked on the frontlines treating COVID-19 patients,said, holding back tears. “I hope they can rest well in heaven.” Workers in protective wear paused silently beside barriers at one residential community — a reminder there are still tight restrictions on everyday life across Wuhan. State media showed Chinese President Xi Jinping and other officials standing outside a Beijing government compound, wearing white flowers. National flags were lowered to half-mast across the country, including in the capital’s Tiananmen Square. Pedestrians in a busy shopping district stopped and kept their heads low in silent tribute, while police stood with their riot shields down and bowed heads. “During this process, a lot of people including the medical workers... have made extraordinary contributions. They are all heroes,” said shopper Wang Yongna. Park-goers paused their activities too, some with hands together in prayer. Trains on Beijing's subway network halted, and passengers stood silently in a mark of respect. Mourning the ‘martyrs’ Officials said the observance was a chance to mourn virus “martyrs” — an honorific title the government bestowed this week on 14 medical workers who died fighting the outbreak. The hashtag “China remembers its heroes” had nearly 1.3 billion views on Twitter-like Weibo Saturday. The martyrs include doctor Li Wenliang, a Wuhan whistleblower reprimanded by authorities for trying to warn others in the early days of the contagion. Mr. Li’s death from COVID-19 in February prompted a national outpouring of grief and anger at the government’s handling of the crisis. The ruling Communist Party has sought to direct criticism to local authorities in Wuhan and surrounding Hubei province, who were accused of downplaying the severity of the virus. Despite drastic measures to lock down the province in January, the epidemic spiralled into a global pandemic. Some restrictions in Hubei were eased in recent weeks after the officially stated number of new infections dropped to near zero. Saturday’s commemoration coincided with the annual Qing Ming holiday — the “tomb sweeping” festival — when Chinese people visit the graves of relatives and leave offerings in remembrance. Some restrictions were tightened again this week to prevent a second wave of infections, with authorities discouraging cemetery visits to mark the festival. Last year, nearly 10 million people visited cemeteries across the three-day holiday, according to state news agency Xinhua. At Beijing’s enormous Babaoshan cemetery, mourners made online reservations to visit graves in a limited number of time slots, with only three relatives allowed per tomb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-pauses-in-memory-of-virus-victims-and-martyrs/article31260749.ece
05 April 2020||London,||Pro-European Keir Starmer elected U.K. Labour leader||Pro-European centrist Keir Starmer was on Saturday unveiled as the new Labour party leader, heralding a shift in Britain’s main Opposition party after a crushing election defeat under veteran socialist Jeremy Corbyn and years of ideological infighting. The 57-year-old former Chief State Prosecutor defeated Corbyn loyalist Rebecca Long-Bailey and backbencher Lisa Nandy in a lengthy campaign sparked by Mr. Corbyn’s resignation after December’s loss at the polls to Boris Johnson’s Conservatives. Angela Rayner becomes the new deputy leader, Labour announced on Twitter, after it was forced to cancel a special conference because of the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr. Starmer, who was Labour’s Brexit spokesman, called his election “the honour and privilege” of his life and vowed to “engage constructively” with Mr. Johnson’s Conservative government. Constructive work Mr. Johnson immediately offered his congratulations and the pair spoke, with Mr. Starmer accepting an invitation to a government briefing on COVID-19 next week. “Keir offered to work constructively with the government on how best to respond to the coronavirus outbreak,” his spokesman said. Mr. Starmer himself vowed to reunite Labour, after deep rifts between supporters of socialist Mr. Corbyn’s left ideals and centrists, and wrangling over its Brexit strategy. He immediately addressed the issue of anti-Semitism that Mr. Corbyn was accused of failing to tackle, which tarnished the party’s reputation and caused Jewish members to leave in droves. “Anti-Semitism has been a stain on our party. I have seen the grief that it’s brought to so many Jewish communities,” Starmer said. “On behalf of the Labour Party, I am sorry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pro-european-keir-starmer-elected-uk-labour-leader/article31260753.ece
05 April 2020||Washington,||Trump fires top intelligence official||U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday abruptly fired the Inspector General of the intelligence community, sidelining an independent watchdog who played a pivotal role in his impeachment. Mr. Trump informed the Senate intelligence committee late on Friday of his decision to fire Michael Atkinson, according to a letter. Mr. Atkinson handled the whistleblower complaint that triggered Mr. Trump’s impeachment last year. Mr. Atkinson’s firing, which is part of a shake-up of the intelligence community under Mr. Trump, thrusts the President’s impeachment back into the spotlight as his administration deals with the deadly spread of the virus. ‘No confidence’ Mr. Trump said in the letter that it is “vital” that he has confidence in the appointees serving as Inspectors General, and “that is no longer the case with regard to this Inspector General.” Mr. Atkinson was the first to inform Congress about an anonymous whistleblower complaint last year that described Mr. Trump’s pressure on Ukraine to investigate Democrat Joe Biden and his son. That complaint prompted a House investigation that ultimately resulted in Mr. Trump’s impeachment. In letters to lawmakers in August and September, Mr. Atkinson said he believed the complaint was “urgent” and “credible.” But the acting Director of National Intelligence at the time, Joseph Maguire, said he did not believe it met the definition of “urgent,” and tried to withhold the complaint from Congress. The complaint was eventually released after a firestorm, and it revealed that Mr. Trump had asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy in a July call to investigate Democrats. The House launched an inquiry in September, and three months later voted to impeach Mr. Trump. The Republican-led Senate acquitted Mr. Trump in February. Mr. Trump said in the letter to the Senate that Mr. Atkinson would be removed from office in 30 days, the required amount of time he must wait after informing Congress. He wrote that he would nominate an individual “who has my full confidence” at a later date. According to two congressional officials, Mr. Atkinson has been placed on administrative leave, meaning he will not serve out the 30 days. One of the officials said Mr. Atkinson was only informed of his removal on Friday night. Tom Monheim, a career intelligence professional, will become the acting Inspector General for the intelligence community, according to an intelligence official. Mr. Monheim is currently the general counsel of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. Larger shake-up Mr. Atkinson’s firing is part of a larger shake-up in the intelligence community. Mr. Maguire, the former acting Director of National Intelligence, was also removed by Mr. Trump and replaced by a Trump loyalist, Richard Grenell. The intelligence community, which Mr. Trump has always viewed with skcpticism, has been in turmoil amid the constant turnover. Mr. Atkinson is at least the seventh intelligence official to be fired, ousted or moved aside since last summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-fires-top-intelligence-official/article31260757.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Kabul gurdwara attack ‘mastermind’ arrested||Afghanistan’s Special Forces on Saturday arrested Mawlawi Aslam Farooqi, a Pakistani national and the emir (chief) of the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), the group that claimed the March 25 attack on a gurdwara in Kabul that killed 27 people, including an Indian. Confirming the arrest, an Afghanistan official said on Saturday that the ISKP has strong links with “regional intelligence agencies”, hinting at a Pakistani hand in the terror group’s operation. Javid Faisal, the spokesperson of the Office of the National Security Council in Afghanistan, said on Twitter, “#ISKP leader Abdullah Orakzai, a Pakistani national known as Aslam Farooqi, was detained in a complex operation by @NDSAAfghanistan special forces. In initial investigations, he has confessed of strong relationship between the Islamic State-Khurasan and regional intelligence agencies.” Senior government officials in India maintain that the ISKP is run by Pakistan’s Inter-State Intelligence (ISI) and the arrest of Farooqi establishes it.  ISI link “Farooqi was a small time militant commander who was active in Pakistan’s Khyber area. His rise in the ISKP leadership was made possible by the ISI,” said an official. Another official said that Farooqi was earlier associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The gurdwara attack in Kabul was executed by a 29-year-old man from Kerala’s Kasargod — Muhammed Muhsin. He stormed into the gurdwara along with two others. As reported earlier, there are indications that another Indian — Sajid Kuthirummal, a shopkeeper from Kasargod who was among a group of 21 people who left India in 2016 to join the ISKP — could also have been part of the terror plot. Mushin was killed in the encounter and the whereabouts of Sajid are not known yet. A July 25, 2019 report published by a UN monitoring team said that Farooqi had replaced ISIL-Khorasan leader Mawlawi Zia ul-Haq in April the same year, referring to another acronym of the IS. “In April, ISIL-K leader Mawlawi Zia ul-Haq, also known as Abu Omar Khorasani, was dismissed and replaced by Mawlawi Aslam Farooqi, who was previously in charge of operations in the Khyber Agency. Ul-Haq’s demotion was reportedly due to poor performance in the context of ISIL-K setbacks in Nangarhar in the second half of 2018. The new leadership nomination was made during a visit by an ISIL core delegation, underscoring the direct relationship between ISIL-K and the ISIL core in Iraq and Syria,” the report said. There are other reports which said the leadership changed in 2018 after differences between Pashtun fighters led by Farooqi and ul-Haq’s group comprising fighters from Central Asian countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-gurdwara-attack-mastermind-arrested/article31260762.ece
05 April 2020||Washington,||Biden to begin process of selecting running mate||Joe Biden said on Friday that he will announce a committee to oversee his vice-presidential selection process and is already thinking about whom he’d choose to join his Cabinet. Mr. Biden, who holds a lead in delegates over Sen. Bernie Sanders but has yet to officially clinch the nomination, also said he’s spoken to Mr. Sanders to let him know he’d be proceeding with the vetting process. Mr. Biden has previously committed to choosing a woman as his running mate. Mr. Biden’s comments came in response to a question during a virtual fundraiser about whether he’d be willing to release his full proposed Cabinet at the same time he announces his vice-presidential pick. Mr. Biden didn’t answer the question directly, but did indicate that there are a number of people who have been helping his campaign with whom he’s discussed whether they’d be “willing to come into a government if I get elected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-begin-process-of-selecting-running-mate/article31260755.ece
05 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. to cover treatment of uninsured people||The tens of millions of Americans who lack health insurance will be covered by the government if they fall sick with the COVID-19 illness, the U.S. Health Secretary said on Friday. Alex Azar told reporters that the CARES act, a coronavirus stimulus package passed by Congress, included $100 billion for health care providers who “will be forbidden from balance billing the uninsured for the cost of their care.” Instead, hospitals and healthcare professionals will be reimbursed at the rates for Medicare, a state insurance programme for the elderly. Mr. Azar added that people who have recently lost their jobs and thus their insurance would be eligible for a special enrollment period under healthcare exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act. President Donald Trump has spent most of his tenure trying to undo the law, also known as Obamacare, and the marketplaces created under it. The latest official figures showed there were 27.5 million people without health insurance — but the current number is likely far higher after 10 million people filed unemployment claims in the past two weeks. Public health experts have repeatedly warned that the uninsured may be reluctant to seek treatment, placing themselves at greater risk and fuelling the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-cover-treatment-of-uninsured-people/article31260758.ece
05 April 2020||London,||U.K. death toll records daily high of 708||Britain on Saturday reported 708 more deaths from COVID-19 in a new daily high, as the number of confirmed cases rose to nearly 42,000. The Health Ministry said 4,313 people who tested positive for the virus in hospital had died as of 1600 GMT Friday while there were 41,903 confirmed cases as of 0800 GMT Saturday, up 3,735. The toll has been steadily increasing at more than over 500 deaths a day this week and the country is bracing for an expected peak in the next week to 10 days. Prime Minister Boris Johnson ordered a three-week lockdown on March 23 to try to cut infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-death-toll-records-daily-high-of-708/article31260751.ece
05 April 2020||Melbourne,||Scott Morrison urges WHO, UN to act against China’s wet markets||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday urged the World Health Organization and the United Nations to act against China’s wet markets, like the one where the deadly coronavirus is thought to have originated, as they pose “great risks” to the health and well-being of the rest of the world.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scott-morrison-urges-who-un-to-act-against-chinas-wet-markets/article31260748.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||FIFA puts off women’s U-17 WC||The FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup to be held in India in November was on Saturday postponed by football’s governing body due to the worsening COVID-19 pandemic. The women’s age-group showpiece was to be held at five venues in the country — Kolkata, Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, Ahmedabad and Navi Mumbai — from November 2-21. It was to be India’s maiden appearance in the U-17 World Cup. U-20 WC postponed The decision was taken by the FIFA-Confederations working group which was recently established by the Bureau of the FIFA Council to address the consequences of the pandemic. The working group also recommended postponement of the FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup Panama/Costa Rica 2020 — originally scheduled for August/September 2020. Meanwhile, the All India Football Federation (AIFF) said the postponement was on expected lines. “Just like other sports events which were postponed due to this dreaded disease, it (postponement of U-17 World Cup) was to happen,” said AIFF general secretary Kushal Das. “The qualifying events in Europe and Africa and other confederations are yet to be held and so the decision was on expected lines.” He said the tournament would most likely be held next year.  The event was to be held at Kolkata, Guwahati,Bhubaneswar, Ahmedabadand Navi Mumbai Qualifying events in Europe,Africa yet to be conducted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-puts-off-womens-u-17-wc/article31260884.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will not let anyone down: IOA||Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Narinder Batra, on Saturday, assured the sporting fraternity of all help during the ongoing phase of lockdown. “These are challenging times for sports. Everything will have to be restructured (when things become normal),” Batra said. Identifying talent “We are in touch with all the (national) federations but it is just that you are planning based on assumptions that things get all right by July-August. How to build up. When to peak? It is basically focusing on the Olympics. And, in the longer run, identify the younger lot which is going to be our potential in 2024 Olympics also.” On the role of the administrators, Batra informed, “We have been in touch with all the federations and all athletes through their (respective) federations. We are trying to make sure that everyone is doing well. The athletes and their families are in good state. The local administration, State government, Sports Authority of India are involved fully. Everyone is trying to make sure that things remain in good condition.” Be free of stress On the assurance to athletes, Batra said, “I can assure them that things will be as per their requirements whenever it becomes normal. Whatever they want will be met with. There will be fear until the vaccine comes out (for COVID-19). I agree there will be problems. We have to be optimistic to get out of the current situation. You have to be mentally free of all the stress, because it can affect the performances.” Batra emphasised the athletes need not worry on the financial front. “Most federations in India would only be making a statement if they try to give assurances and not delivering at a later date. All our athletes are employed by the government or private organisations, so no salary cuts have been done. That’s one good assurance. “Right now, we are engaged in giving contributions to the Prime Minister’s CARES Fund which can help the society in general. If a situation comes where an athlete or group of athletes need help, rest assured we won’t let anyone down.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-not-let-anyone-down-ioa/article31261031.ece
05 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Training Dutee a new challenge now, says coach Ramesh||For N. Ramesh, the SAI athletics coach who gave a new direction to sprinter Dutee Chand’s career by supporting her when she was facing the IAAF ban on grounds of hyperandrogenism a few years ago, it is a new challenge to train her for the postponed Tokyo Olympic Games. “In a way, the rescheduling of the Games is a blessing in disguise for most of the contenders, except, maybe, for those who are ageing. “In Dutee’s case, we are already into the preparatory mode,” the 55-year-old Ramesh told The Hindu . “The plan is to make Dutee compete in both 200m and 100m events in the run-up to the Games, but the focus will be on 100m as research, and her own inclination, suggests the shorter sprint is more suited to her,” he said. Early start “It is not just Dutee alone, who is being trained via mobile app. “The day starts at 4.30 a.m. for all the athletes scattered across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” he said. “I first suggest to them to do some visualisation on the day’s training session before the start, for this has been proven scientifically to have a better effect,” he said. How is the review done? “For example, Dutee will give me the video feedback of her set of 30m sprints with timings and, based on that, corrective measures will be suggested. Similarly, all the athletes have their own specific training modules. “I also tell these athletes to stay clear of any infection, improve their immunity by taking lemon, guava and also a little bit of haldi with milk,” he said. “When everyone’s afraid of the coronavirus threat, ‘go one step ahead with care and dare’ is my message to the athletes,” he said.  I tell these athletes to stay clear of any infection, improve their immunity by taking lemon, guava and also a little bit of haldi with milk   The focus will be on 100m as research, and her own inclination, suggest the shorter sprint is more suited to her||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/training-dutee-a-new-challenge-now-says-coach-ramesh/article31260880.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||IPL should happen, says Pietersen||The COVID-19 pandemic may have indefinitely stalled all sporting activity, but former England captain Kevin Pietersen “truly believes” that the 13th edition of the IPL should happen the moment there is a window of opportunity. He proposed a “condensed” league behind closed doors, adding the fans shouldn’t be risked. “Let’s say July/August at the earliest... I do truly believe the IPL should happen. I do believe it is the kick-start to the cricket season. I think every single player around the world is desperate to play in the IPL,” Pietersen said. The former star batsman expressed his thoughts on Star Sports’ show Cricket Connected.  “There could be a way in which to get some money into the franchises, into the economy by having a situation where you use maybe three venues which are completely closed to fans and the players can still go out and play the tournament in three or four weeks. Condensed version “So, it’s a more condensed tournament in three venues which we know are safe, which we know are secure,” he said. Agreeing with Pietersen, former India batsman Sanjay Manjrekar spoke on the importance of organising the IPL. “When you talk about the IPL, it’s not just about the Mumbai Indians, or a Dhoni or a Virat Kohli, there are a lot of people who are making their livelihood through the IPL,” he said. The IPL was slated to begin on March 29, but has been deferred until April 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-should-happen-says-pietersen/article31260892.ece
05 April 2020||Coimbatore,||These are not normal times, says Narain||For Narain Karthikeyan, the ‘fastest Indian in the world’, life has come to a screeching halt due to COVID-19. The former F1 driver agrees that he has lived his life in the fast lane all these years and a sudden stop like this is a bit unusual. “This is the first time in the last 27 years that I am spending more time with my family. I do not know whether it is a nice thing to happen when the world is struggling because of the virus,” Narain told The Hindu here on Saturday. “These are not normal times... in fact, they are the most difficult and make you realise that the world can change overnight — from a bright scenario to a bleak one.” He revealed that things were moving at snail’s pace for him. “I need to get the day going, and plan it accordingly.” Hard at work The 43-year-old racer, whom young drivers look up to for inspiration, is working hard to keep himself fit for future events. After spending some time in Japan, where he drove in the SuperGT series for Nakajima Racing and finished with a win under testing conditions in the final race of the season, Narain has set his sights on the European LeMans racing endurance series. “I doubt if anything will happen this year because the situation is so bad,” he said. Will it be difficult for drivers to come back with a bang after a break like this? “It will be slightly difficult but you will have to go with the flow,” said Narain. Battle-ready “I compete with world-class drivers half my age and I feel I have enough speed in me to beat them on a regular basis. I also keep myself fit all the time,” added Narain who, along with the other drivers in the Race Legends group, has planned to chip in for those affected by the pandemic. Narain said he has never seen anything like this in his life. “I wish and pray this never happens again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/these-are-not-normal-times-says-narain/article31260894.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||LTA pledges support to revive the sport||The cancellation of Wimbledon this year due to the coronavirus pandemic has dealt a serious blow to the tennis fraternity. The Lawn Tennis Association (LTA), which governs the game in Britain, however, has swung into action and pledged around £20 million to tennis venues, coaches, officials and players in order to ensure a healthy revival of the sport in England, Scotland and Wales. The measure is aimed at protecting the grassroots of the sport even as it aspires to support the professional players and coaches, including providing financial grants to the lower-ranked players. To ensure viability “Our primary objective in announcing these unprecedented measures is to ensure clubs and venues remain viable, and coaches and officials are not lost,” said LTA chief executive Scott Lloyd in a statement. Most significantly, ATP/WTA ranked players in the 101-750 bracket in singles and 101-250 in doubles will get appropriate grants. There will also be increased prize money and tournament bonuses when the events are revived. The financial commitment includes repayment holiday of up to six months for all existing LTA facility loans to the tune of £1 million in all. An equal amount will reach the tennis fraternity through the refund of registration fee for venues for 2019-20. Hardship fund A hardship fund of about £13.5 million has been kept to provide interest-free loans of up to £5,000 for those in need. Around £4 million would be provided as financial grant for the LTA-accredited coaches and tutors, apart from a separate fund of around £1 million for interest-free loans for coaches up to £5,000. There will also be support for tournaments cancelled where the players’ entry fee may have been reimbursed. In return for the support, the LTA would ask the players and coaches concerned to commit their time to help open up tennis to more people in their area when play resumes. The Indian Tennis Association and sports administrators should start looking at ways to do their bit, taking inspiration from LTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lta-pledges-support-to-revive-the-sport/article31260896.ece
05 April 2020||LONDON,||Langer backs cricket behind closed doors||Australia coach Justin Langer believes resuming cricket behind closed doors when it is safe to do so will have “great value” for the public, deprived of action by the COVID-19 shutdown. Like almost the entire sporting schedule around the world, cricket has been halted by the pandemic, with no return date set in stone. One of the options being mooted is to have the sport resume after restrictions have been lifted, but in empty stadiums. “When you started off playing cricket, when you were under age, there’s no crowds there,” he told BBC Radio . “You played it because you loved playing the game, you loved playing with your mates and you loved playing the game. “For the love of the game, and for still being able to entertain people through TV sets or radio, then there’s value in (playing behind closed doors). “Yes it’s different, but we’ll never, ever, ever take for granted how lucky we are ever again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/langer-backs-cricket-behind-closed-doors/article31260898.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Tokyo Olympics: SAI to reassess preparations||The postponement of the Tokyo Olympics has forced the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to re-evaluate preparations for the same. On Saturday, it began the process, with SAI DG Sandip Pradhan holding a video conference with Hockey India officials, including CEO Elena Norman and High Performance Director David John. The men’s and women’s chief coaches were also present. Various modalities including teams’ training and domestic and foreign competitions were discussed with the coaches expressing satisfaction at the measures currently in place at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru. “We had a positive discussion about the state of affairs and indicated our preferences once the situation improves and as soon as more is known about the possibilities in the future,” women’s chief coach Sjoerd Marijne said. “We had a very productive meeting, discussed the planning process for the next 16 months and await decisions as to when we can re-start full training,” men’s coach Graham Reid added. HI gives Rs. 75 lakh more Hockey India, meanwhile, added another Rs. 75 lakh to take its contribution to the PM-CARES fund to Rs. 1 crore to counter the spread of COVID-19. The federation had earlier committed Rs. 25 lakh before its Executive Board decided to up the amount on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-olympics-sai-to-reassess-preparations/article31260900.ece
05 April 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Bryant heads 2020 Hall of Fame list||Five-time NBA champion Kobe Bryant, who died in a helicopter crash in January, headed a star-studded list of players named in basketball’s 2020 Hall of Fame on Saturday. He was among the nine who will be enshrined at the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on August 29. The others are three-time NBA Finals MVP Tim Duncan, 15-time NBA All-Star Kevin Garnett, two-time NBA champion coach Rudy Tomjanovich and four-time Olympic medallist Tamika Catchings. The other inductees include three-time NCAA National Championship coach Kim Mulkey, college basketball coach Barbara Stevens and longtime FIBA executive Patrick Baumann, who died of a heart attack in 2018 at the age of 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bryant-heads-2020-hall-of-fame-list/article31260881.ece
05 April 2020||LONDON,||Akram and Gough chip in for a cause||Renowned cricketers Wasim Akram and Darren Gough joined swimmer Michael Phelps, among others, to help raise funds for the fight against COVID-19. According to athletesrelief.org , Akram and Gough pledged items of memorabilia which were auctioned on behalf of the Centre for Disaster Philanthropy. Akram’s signed bat and ball fetched $150 while Gough’s signed ball attracted $50. Phelps’ signed swimsuit went for $1490. At $41,350 for his signed football, former American National Football League (NFL) star Rob Gronkowski raised the maximum amount. Many cricketers have chipped in during the crisis, with Jos Buttler auctioning the shirt he was wearing when England won the ODI World Cup last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akram-and-gough-chip-in-for-a-cause/article31261078.ece
05 April 2020||London,||England cricketers’ noble gesture||England cricketers, both men and women, have volunteered pay-cuts and donated £500,000 as contribution towards the fight against COVID-19. The gesture comes after the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) had proposed a 20% cut in players’ salaries. The donation of £500,000 is equivalent to a 20% reduction in the men’s salaries while the women volunteered for a cut in April, May, June salaries. “Following a meeting of all of the England men’s centrally contracted cricketers, the players have agreed to make an initial donation of 0.5m to the ECB and to selected good causes,” read a statement from the players. “This contribution is the equivalent of all of England’s centrally contracted players taking a 20% reduction in their monthly retainers for the next three months.” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-cricketers-noble-gesture/article31260882.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 07:20 IST,||Sudoku - April 5, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-5-2020/article31261285.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemics and prejudice||In the early 1900s in New York, a strange event took place in the upscale enclaves of Long Island. Many of its denizens began to mysteriously contract typhoid. The emergence of a disease associated with filth and poverty in a slick and affluent quarter deeply unsettled the city’s medical establishment. A sanitary engineer named George Soper was asked to investigate the phenomenon. He discovered that a cook named Mary Mallon, a middle-aged Irishwoman, had worked for at least eight of the families that had been attacked by typhoid. Mallon, herself perfectly healthy, would leave her employment each time a case broke out and move to another family. Soper set off on a hunt. He traced Mallon’s whereabouts, stalked her to find where she lived, and finally confronted her, accusing her of being a carrier of typhoid. When Mallon refused to cooperate and undergo medical tests, Soper convinced the police to arrest her. Incarcerated purely on a hypothesis, Mallon’s blood, urine and faecal samples were then collected against her will. When the results came back, they showed the presence of Salmonella typhi , the bacterium that causes typhoid, and the noose of public disapproval quickly fell around her neck. Soper was celebrated for having established the existence of ‘healthy carriers’ — people who carry and spread disease-causing pathogens but stay unaffected. Mallon was disgraced and went down in history as ‘Typhoid Mary’. For decades, that unkind moniker normalised the violence and vilification of a poor, illiterate, immigrant woman, who was also a passionate and gifted cook. Mallon was demonised by the medical establishment and the press as a ‘super-spreader’, akin to a mass murderer. She was believed to have infected 51 people, three of whom died, but exact numbers were difficult to establish. Finding the enemy Mallon was sent into quarantine for 26 years, next to the Riverside Hospital on North Brother Island, where she finally died in 1938. An impassioned exoneration came 63 years later, from an unexpected yet unsurprising quarter. In Typhoid Mary: An Urban Historical (2001), the late Anthony Bourdain wrote with great empathy for his fellow chef: “Cooks work sick. They always have. Most jobs, you don’t work, you don’t get paid. You wake up with a sniffle and a runny nose, a sore throat? You soldier on. You put in your hours. You wrap a towel around your neck, and you do your best to get through. It’s a point of pride, working through pain and illness.” Typhoid outbreaks were not new to New York City, but Mallon had been singled out as a public enemy, more deadly than the disease itself. Her true crime, perhaps, was reminding the rich and powerful that pathogens had little respect for the class divide that separated Long Island from the Bronx. kkk  The story of people and pathogens is that of a difficult evolutionary marriage. Pathogens want to live and prosper. Killing off humans — the hosts — would become a self-defeating exercise. Both parties, therefore, try to work towards mutual survival. After a certain point in time, the two declare an uneasy truce and humans start to live with the pathogen. We have done so many times before, and we will do so with the novel coronavirus. The biological coexistence that emerges out of a pandemic is in stark contrast to its social effects. Diseases don’t have a social preference, and pathogens don’t distinguish victims by race, class, religion, gender or other identities. However, history shows that each time there is a pandemic, deep-rooted social prejudice resurfaces, often with horrifying results. During the Great Bubonic Plague in Europe in 1348, the Catholic Church was convinced that the Black Death was a Jewish conspiracy to undermine Christianity. Accused of poisoning wells to spread the disease, Jews were subjected to horrific torture and forced to make false confessions. Soon, the mephitic smell of the burning flesh of thousands of Jews lingered in the air of Strasbourg, Cologne, Basel and Mainz. The Roma of Europe faced similar persecution. Giorgio Viaggio, in his book Storia Degli Zingari in Italia (1997), has documented 121 laws framed in Italy between 1493 and 1785, restricting the movement of Zingaris (a pejorative term for Romas). Such laws were driven partly by the prejudiced view that the Roma people caused and spread epidemics. In medieval Europe, outbreaks of plague were blamed on people who practised traditional medicine. They were branded ‘witches’ and persecuted. Historian Brian Levack (2006) estimated that 90,000 people were punished for witchcraft in Europe. Though we don’t have exact figures, the brunt of it seems to have been borne by women. kkk  The medieval belief in plague spreaders was dispelled with the arrival of germ theory. Diseases were spread not by people but by micro-organisms or pathogens. They could travel through air, water or physical contact between humans and non-humans. We learnt that germs had no regard for social categorisations. One assumed that the discovery of this apolitical and amoral ‘germ’ would lead to epidemics being seen through the clear lens of a microscope and not by glasses tinted with prejudice. But the microscope was not only an instrument of discovery; it was a tool of the Empire. The tropics were teeming with diseases, detrimental to the health of Anglo-European administrators. Mosquitoes, it seemed, were far more insurgent than colonial subjects. It was the microscope that shaped the colonial understanding of “tropical disease”. The outbreak of ‘Asiatic cholera’ in 1817 — a pandemic named because it was believed to be endemic to India’s Gangetic region — soon spread to Europe and sparked fears of an invasion of diseases originating in the colonies. This prompted intense scientific enquiry. In his nuanced account of the attempt of 19th-century medical science to localise diseases, historian Pratik Chakrabarti writes in 2010 of how Robert Koch’s discovery of Vibrio cholerae — the comma-shaped cholera pathogen — was pinned to the tropical environment and body. Specifically, the intestine and biliary tract of the colonial subject. Then there was leprosy, so stigmatised that the word ‘leper’ became synonymous with a social outcast. The Manusmriti mandated the ostracisation of lepers as ‘sinners’. Even after the Leprosy Commission report in 1891 concluded that the “amount of contagion is so small it may be disregarded,” Indian and European upper classes actively campaigned against allowing the afflicted to be seen in public, as their sight produced disgust and loathing. This led to the Leprosy Act of 1898, which institutionalised people with leprosy, even using gender segregation to prevent reproduction. All to please the aesthetic sensibilities of the colonial elite. If colonial science contributed to the tropicalisation of epidemics, literature reified it. Thomas Mann’s novella Death in Venice , set in the city of water during a cholera outbreak, described the disease as ‘Indian cholera’, which, “…born in the sultry swamps of the Ganges delta, ascended with the mephitic odor of that unrestrained and unfit wasteland, that wilderness avoided by men…”. Epidemic orientalism Researcher Alexandre White in 2018 referred to such incidents of colonial construction as “epidemic orientalism” in his thesis. This often shaped the way diseases were named — Asiatic cholera (1826), Asiatic plague (1846), Asiatic flu (1956), Rift Valley fever (the 1900s), Middle East respiratory syndrome (2012), Hong Kong flu (1968), to cite a few. Now, the World Health Organisation has guidelines to name infectious diseases in neutral, generic terms. Socially, however, epidemics and diseases continue to be pinned to race, gender, sexual preference and geography. The Trump administration has repeatedly called COVID-19 the ‘Chinese virus’, and some refer to it as ‘Kung Flu’. Naming reinforces prejudice. The original term for HIV/ AIDS was the acronym GRID — Gay Related Immunodeficiency. Though short-lived, it worked to boost what American televangelists were already calling it in the 80s: “gay plague” — divine punishment for sexual deviance. The belief that HIV/ AIDS has a preference for gay men now lives on in legislation in various countries, prohibiting men who have sex with men (MSMs) from donating blood or organs. kkk If history tells us one thing, it is that we have managed to deal with disease-causing pathogens significantly better than with our entrenched prejudices. Pandemics don’t produce hate, but they do serve to amplify it. The Trump administration would like to believe that the Chinese government’s mismanagement and attempts to cover up the incidence and spread of COVID-19 is a conspiracy aimed at destabilising America. It recalls the Catholic Church’s invocation of the notion of pestis manufacta (diabolically produced disease) to accuse Jews of trying to sabotage Christianity. Similarly, European politicians Le Pen and Salvini’s racist invectives against migrants and refugees as carriers of the coronavirus intersects with Trump’s rhetoric. During his campaign for the U.S. presidency four years ago, Trump revived the medieval European idea of ‘plague spreaders’ by claiming, “Tremendous infectious disease is pouring across the border” carried by Mexican immigrants. Ironically, it is Mexico today that’s guarding its borders from carriers entering from the U.S. India’s latent prejudices have similarly risen in tandem with COVID-19. Building owners have barred entry of medical staff into their own homes. People speak of social distancing using the terminology of caste and untouchability. People from Northeast India are facing racist comments and threats of eviction. The same government that sent planes to ferry Indians back from foreign countries failed to house its poor migrant labourers or to send them safely home. The ongoing lockdown has seen a mass exodus of workers, trekking hundreds of kilometres to get home, sleeping on streets, struggling for food and water. Some 20 have died so far. As this goes to press, governments are scrambling to set up relief camps for those persuaded to stay back, and transport those who insist on leaving. And in U.P., returning workers are hosed down with surface disinfectants as if they were the pathogens. Added to this, communal prejudice has found new viral spread, riding piggyback on the Tablighi Jamaat conclave in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. kkk Science was supposed to liberate people from irrational beliefs by proving that pathogens don’t look for a particular race or place — all they need is a human body, warm, moist and nutrient-rich. Unfortunately, even the scientific understanding of hosts, vectors and carriers has been appropriated to reinforce social prejudices. Stigma produced in the churn of a pandemic has a long afterlife. No one understood that better than Mary Mallon. Quarantined for more than a quarter of her life, her name is still synonymous with disease. The same aggressive hounding of the afflicted persists today. Desperate to maintain quarantine, governments are publishing patient names and addresses, affixing door stickers, stamping their skin with indelible ink, all of which violate medical ethics and could lead to social ostracism. And we stand today facing the same question a poor, immigrant woman asked of society at the beginning of the 20th century. Is it necessary to forego humanity in order to save human life? The writer is a Leverhulme Trust Ph.D Scholar at University of Edinburgh, U.K., and a Fellow at Konrad Lorenz Institute, Austria.  During the Great Bubonic Plague in Europe in 1348, the Catholic Church was convinced that the Black Death was a Jewish conspiracy to undermine Christianity   If colonial science contributed to the tropicalisation of epidemics, literature reified it. Thomas Mann’s novellaDeath in Venice, set in the city of water during a cholera outbreak, described the disease as ‘Indian cholera’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pandemics-and-prejudice/article31260691.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||When history rhymes||It is rather interesting at this moment in time to look at a period in our history from about 70 to 80 years ago, specifically in the region of Bengal, in undivided India. At the beginning of World War II in September 1939, India was deep in the struggle for independence. The capital of the Raj had shifted to Delhi but Calcutta was a thriving metropolis of just under three million people, and commercially, culturally and politically one of India’s two major urban centres. Around Calcutta spread Bengal, with its huge riverine maze feeding one of the most fertile regions of the world. Despite the city’s commercial robustness and the region’s legendary fecundity, there was urban poverty and large sections of Bengal’s peasantry were struggling under iniquitous conditions created by the zamindari system and the complicit British Raj that arched over that system. The war that devastated so much of the northern hemisphere never quite reached Calcutta in its typical form: there was no fighting around the city or anywhere in Bengal — the nearest battles took place on the Burmese border, 750 kilometres away. The air bombing that devastated other places hardly touched Bengal — Japanese planes sporadically bombed Calcutta between December 1942 and January 1943, but these caused only token damage. Yet, by 1948, within nine years of the war starting, Calcutta was mutilated forever in a way that London, Paris, Rome and Moscow were not. And the province of Bengal was scarred in a manner that was comparable to some of the worst devastations in central and eastern Europe and in south-eastern Asia. Refugee wave The first event that hit Calcutta, in the summer of 1942, was the wave of Indian refugees who trekked all the way from a Burma being rapidly captured by the Japanese: migrant labourers, clerks, plantation managers, all trying to make their way home by foot on a horrendously difficult route. The second event was something that spread over all of India: the protests and upheavals that followed Gandhi’s call for Quit India in early August. When Gandhi and the Congress leaders were arrested, the protests, the violent police reactions to it, and the retaliatory arson and riots continued from August almost into October. Then, in October, the coast of united Bengal and Orissa was battered by a huge cyclone that killed many thousands of people, destroyed most of the cattle and devastated crops. Beneath this, away from urban public awareness, something else had begun: the government through its agents had bought up huge quantities of rice from Bengali peasants for the war effort; such was the price being offered that farmers had sold even their personal yearly stash, imagining that the next harvest would yield enough to make up any shortfall. In the meantime, seeing how the Japanese army had used local boats and bicycles in the Malayan peninsula, a panicked administration confiscated most of the boats on Bengal’s rivers — boats that were a lifeline for the villagers. All of this conjoined to create the Great Bengal Famine. The peak of the famine was between 1943 and 1944, but the aftershocks in the shape of cholera and typhoid that claimed the weakened survivors continued into 1945 and beyond. The toll was close to three million dead. And in mid-1946 came the massive communal killings of Calcutta that presaged the violence of Partition in both Bengal and Punjab. Domino effect By 1948 the city was filled with a third wave of refugees — Hindus from the newly formed East Pakistan. From a bad mixture of cruel administrative edicts and natural disasters, the population of Calcutta had more than doubled and for the next several decades it would become a city associated with poverty and deprivation. The two Bengals would have intersecting but distinct histories that would lead to the second great cleavage in 1971, which would result in hundreds of thousands of deaths in genocide by the Pakistan Army, and lead to the formation of Bangladesh. What this sequence teaches us is that different kinds of disasters often feed on each other, topple into each other like dominoes. Right now some of us may have forgotten the massive bomb of demonetisation; the criminal clampdown in Kashmir, the deliberate attacks on university students and the fascist CAA-NRC ‘laws’ and the huge protests against those may have receded from our minds; the reckless crony capitalism for which this regime wilfully destroys environmental safeguards may not even be on our radar; nor might the official skulduggery going on within the banking sector; but all these are feeding into what is happening now with the COVID-19 pandemic and will become ‘force multipliers’ that will continue to wreak havoc on our lives and our Republic. Just as the armed conflict never touched Bengal, the actual pandemic by itself may — repeat may — only have a limited effect on our country, but coming as it does, right after this long sequence of calamities constructed by a cruel and uncaring regime, it may be the last heavy straw that will break many backs.  Yet, by 1948, within nine years of the war starting, Calcutta was transformed for the worse, mutilated forever in a way that London, Paris, Rome and Moscow were not||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-history-rhymes/article31260697.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||I am a rock, I am an island||It is past noon and Mehtaj, 39, a teacher in Assam, is doing her “second round of disinfection”. Wiping her car keys with antiseptic, she says, “I can’t stop thinking about coronavirus and whether we’ve let it in by mistake. I am petrified.” The teacher and mother of one is not alone in her phobic reaction. The isolation and fear in this lockdown era is driving an escalating nervousness among many people. Not just those with pre-existing conditions like anxiety, depression and OCD (obsessive compulsive disorder), but also the elderly who are struggling with new levels of loneliness and helplessness. “I try not to read all the WhatsApp forwards,” says Mehtaj, even as she obsessively continues to disinfect door knobs, furniture and kitchen appliances. “I wash my son’s toys in Dettol; I put everything in the sun, even vegetables and groceries.” As this goes to press, 16 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Assam. In her apartment in east Bengaluru, Saroja Chakravarty, 84, lives alone. She has kept herself busy with cooking, cleaning and Netflix. She talks to her daughters over the phone. “But I haven’t stepped out of the front door in days,” she says. As susceptible as the elderly are to COVID-19, people like Chakravarty are also acutely psychologically vulnerable at this time. “I miss talking to real people. I miss my walks,” she says. Topsy-turvy times “These are strange times,” says Pratima Murthy, head of department, psychiatry, at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru. “What we generally prescribe for the elderly is social interaction for their emotional wellbeing. And now they’ve been told the opposite: to physically distance themselves, even from their grandchildren.” As you grow older, says Dr. Murthy, a routine becomes important and any disruption leads to anxiety. In Hyderabad, Zubair Ahmed, 71, and his wife Rahima, 65, find the comfort they drew from their daily walks and chatting with friends all but lost. “It’s been seven years since our son left home; but it’s only now that we feel lonely,” says Ahmed. A review published recently in Lancet, which studied literature on the psychological impact of quarantine — the separation and curtailed movement of people potentially exposed to a contagious disease — during previous epidemics such as SARS, found proof of a range of psychological conditions, from post-traumatic stress symptoms to confusion, anger, depression, stress, insomnia and emotional exhaustion. “Activating your social network, albeit remotely, is not just a key priority, but an inability to do so is associated not just with immediate anxiety, but longer-term distress,” says the paper. Communicating, even remotely, with family and friends, is “essential,” it adds. Invisible enemy That’s what Bonoshree (name changed on request), 25, is trying to do. Diagnosed with depression two years ago, Bonoshree works in a publishing house and lives alone in Delhi. She used to walk or step out for coffee to keep her spirits up; now all that’s stopped. Her worried parents video-call her three times a day. “I have to create a facade to keep them from worrying. But the truth is, I am extremely lonely. I am hardly ever hungry and I can’t sleep well.” Work keeps her busy in the mornings and a friend checks up on her, “but nothing replaces human connect, you know,” she says. She has reached out to her counsellor to see her through. For those with anxiety disorder, it might be worse. Bengaluru-based psychotherapist Natasha Vijay talks of one of her clients who is struggling to cope with the distress of facing this ‘invisible enemy’. The pandemic has been very hard on this woman, the psychotherapist explains, because all she hears constantly are health warnings and alerts. Such paranoia can be prevented by communicating the right information about the pandemic, says Sanjeev Jain, professor, psychiatry, at NIMHANS. “There’s no mystery; we must encourage people to be rational in their response, rather than panic.” While NIMHANS has set up a helpline to reach out to patients, States like Kerala have set up helplines to tele-counsel people in quarantine. The calls have been increasing: last Saturday, for instance, 7,000 calls were made, and the government has employed an army of over 700 counsellors. “People in quarantine grapple first with stigma, then anxiety about getting infected; then of course with the stress of loneliness,” says Kiran P. S., State nodal officer for the Mental Health Programme that runs the helpline. Engaging socially “What is important is to understand the difference between physical distancing and social distancing,” says Dr. Jain. “Distancing should not be interpreted as social or emotional disengagement. Fostering a sense of social togetherness — whether on the phone, or through acts of altruism by helping people in the neighbourhood — is essential at this time.” One doesn’t have to be ill to suffer during these stressful times. In Jaipur, Rubina Shah, a homemaker, is physically and mentally drowning. With her children and husband at home all day, her chores have increased manifold. “My children are five and eight; keeping them busy all day while keeping the house in order is exhausting,” she says. Shah’s husband, a PR executive, works from home and does help, but the bulk of it falls on Rubina. “I barely get any break,” she says, “It’s making me irritable.” One of her blessings has been that her parents are within reach and she talks often to them. Others don’t have this luxury. Yet, as Bombay-based mental health expert Prakriti Poddar says, staying connected even via digital platforms becomes vital at such times. The Ahmeds are not comfortable with video calls or chats, but their son Rohan calls them three-four times a day from Bengaluru, asking if they’ve eaten, suggesting exercises for his diabetic mother, and movies on TV for the evenings. “They are praying more; it’s their way of seeking solace,” says Rohan, “But I worry. What if something goes wrong and I cannot reach them on time?” Staying close to family, however, doesn’t mean the same for everyone. For people with dysfunctional family dynamics, such as an abusive partner or domineering parents, staying at home is a trigger for anxiety. “It has left many susceptible to relapse of clinical depression,” Kolkata-based psychologist Charvi Jain says. In such times of uncertainty, the only way forward is to accept that while we don’t have control over everything, there are some things we can do. Avoiding information overload from social media, avoiding speculation about the pandemic, keeping busy with activities, playing games, engaging with books, music, dance and movies — all this helps. Now is the time for those cat videos. WHO recommends focusing on positive news, like news of people recovering from the virus, to get hope. “We can take this as an opportunity,” says Dr. Poddar, “The earth is recuperating, and so can we.”  (With inputs from Divya Gandhi & Shyama Rajagopal.)  The writer is a Jodhpur-based freelance journalist.  A review published recently inLancet, which studied literature on the psychological impact of quarantine, found proof of a range of conditions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-am-a-rock-i-am-an-island/article31260694.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Have plumbers, need architect||John Maynard Keynes, the founder of Keynesian economics, once said that “if economists could manage to get themselves thought of as a humble, competent people, on a level with dentists, that would be splendid.” Judging from recent opinion polls, economists still have a long way to go. According to one poll, cited in this book, 84% of people in the U.K. would trust the professional advice of a nurse, but only 25% would trust an economist. The aim of this book is partly to demonstrate the value of ‘good economics’, and partly to bring economic reasoning to bear on the critical issues of our times — poverty, inequality, trade, migration, climate change, among others. Rather than dentists, Banerjee and Duflo think of able economists as plumbers who patiently “solve problems with a combination of intuition grounded in science, some guesswork aided by experience, and a bunch of pure trial and error”. Sure enough, their preferred tool of trial and error is the randomised controlled trial, but they also make healthy use of other types of evidence. Joining the dots The result is convincing in many ways. In fact, the book is a model of how economic reasoning and evidence can shed light on real-world issues. The authors excel at joining the dots from numerous theoretical and empirical studies. The arguments flow like clear water. Written in an engaging style, the book makes economics accessible to a wide audience. Who would have thought that the Stopler-Samuelson theorem had so much to offer? The book is divided into nine thematic chapters on some of the leading issues of today’s ‘hard times’. On migration, the authors dispute the alarmist narratives and argue that, far from being a major threat, migration should be welcome if not encouraged. A fine chapter on international trade reminds us that there are ‘pains from trade’ (for some people at least), not just gains as many economists tend to think. The chapter on economic growth aptly sums up our ignorance and concludes that it is better to improve the quality of life with the resources we have than to pretend that we know how to accelerate growth. Some chapters (notably on climate change) are a little inconclusive, but others end with a clear message, such as higher taxes on the super-rich to reduce income inequality. The book ends with a long but not entirely convincing chapter on social policy. For developing countries, the authors support some sort of ‘universal ultra-basic income’ (UUBI). The basis of this recommendation, however, is not clear — one is at a loss to understand the statement “we are in favour of a UUBI based on what we know so far” (p. 296). For one thing, much would depend on how UUBI is to be financed. The authors note, apparently in approval (p. 295), that in India 1.38% of GDP could be mobilised for UUBI by removing ‘the ten largest central welfare schemes’, without mentioning what these are. As it happens, they include valuable programmes like school meals, the Integrated Child Development Services and the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. There is a gap in the argument to say the least. Clues to the future At the end of the book, the reader certainly feels wiser, but not necessarily clearer about what should be done to address the big issues of our times. For all its ‘revolutionary’ character, advertised on the cover, the book is a little short of clues on the way forward. Instead, it ends with a somewhat rhetorical ‘call to action’. A little enigmatic Here we seem to encounter the limits of ‘plumbing’. To fix a water tap, informed poking around may be good enough. But to build a house, you need to think hard about what sort of house you want. That is not just a matter of technical knowledge, but also of normative judgement as to what we are trying to achieve and for whom. Banerjee and Duflo remain a little enigmatic in that respect. They certainly want the world to be a better place, but it is not clear what that place would look like, other than having less poverty and nastiness. I am sure that they have an answer, and I am hoping that we will hear it one day — perhaps in their next book. Meanwhile, Good Economics for Hard Times has much to offer. It is always difficult to recommend good books on economics to a layperson who wants to educate herself without getting bored — this one is a safe bet. The author is Visiting Professor at the Department of Economics, Ranchi University.  Good Economics for Hard Times: Better Answers to Our Biggest Problems Abhjit Banerjee, Esther Duflo Juggernaut  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/have-plumbers-need-architect/article31260720.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from a terrace||In the past two weeks, the world has shrunk exponentially. We may know the goings on in New York and London, Hong Kong and Singapore, but travel to any of these places is a distant dream. Closer home, even a walk to the neighbourhood bar or meeting friends is out of the question. But in this climate of uncertainty, the natural world will not be reined in. On the terrace outside my fifth-floor apartment, a peepal tree is kept at bay by flimsy netting but the ecosystem it supports gives me a sense of hope, calm and a reminder that life does go on. The lockdown has helped me see something that has literally been right in front of me all along. Tree of life Morning to night, the tree has visitors: birds and bats come every day to pick at the lime-sized fruits that signal that Mumbai’s seasonal drop in temperature is behind us, and we have only humidity, heat and now, social distancing, to look forward to. As I sit at the table on the terrace, pretending to work but in fact reading more about the coronavirus, the music I am playing is interrupted by the chirps and calls of sparrows, coppersmith barbets, red-vented bulbuls, rose-ringed parakeets, common mynas, koels, crows and kites. Each has its own distinct personality: coppersmith barbets, for instance, are skittish when I get too close to take a photograph; but the crows just fix you with a stare, part imperious and part mischievous, daring you to come closer. This natural community reminds me that although we struggle to create a semblance of order under the lockdown, the rhythms of nature are unchanged by it all. And now, with humanity trapped in a holding pattern, the symbiotic relationship between tree and bird is a source of joy and hope. Yes, we have television and books and laptops but experiencing life through a screen is mediated and can sometimes feel even more isolating. Instead, it’s the snippets of life I see on the peepal tree that ease my days indoors. I track the coppersmith barbet and I am dazzled by its colour — crimson and yellow and grass green — and its movements unencumbered and free. Watching it peck on a fruit almost as big as its head is a vibrant interlude to the monotony. It’s a dash of colour that finds its way through the branches whose leaves dance in the breeze and glisten as they catch the light in an array of yellows and greens. It’s only when the bats fly in at night to feast and roost upside down on the branches that I am reminded of why we’re trapped indoors in the first place. Then my attention moves back to my many screens, to the news from faraway places, and to the other people who are also finding solace in the little things. The Mumbai-based food and travel writer is rediscovering the world around him as he works from home.  With humanity trapped in a holding pattern, the symbiotic relationship between tree and bird is a source of joy and hope||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-a-terrace/article31260739.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on April 5, 1827, Joseph ___ was an English surgeon who was a pioneer in antiseptic surgery. After studying Louis Pasteur’s work in microbiology he promoted the use of carbolic acid (now known as phenol) as an antiseptic. He found that after spraying instruments it reduced incidences of gangrene and he instructed surgeons to wash their hands with 5% carbolic acid solutions. He became known as the ‘Father of modern surgery’. In 1879, an antiseptic (which we now know as a mouthwash) was named after him. What is this antiseptic and what was his full name? 2In ancient India, after abdominal surgeries, when closing incisions, a certain entity would be used to hold the two ends of a wound together and then cut off, so that the part that was holding the wound closed would remain. Once the external incision was stitched up using thread, the stomach juices would ensure that the entities holding the wound together slowly dissolve, by which time the wound would have healed. What were these early forms of ‘staples’? 3This individual was one of the first to argue that all illnesses had natural causes, rather than blaming supernatural occurrences. He advocated patient-centred medicine and that healers should be clinicians, making close observations and using rational thinking processes. He also emphasised the moral and ethical dimensions of medical care. Who was this pioneering healer? 4Conjunctivitis is inflammation of the outermost layer of the white part of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelid caused by infectious microbes. In the early 1950s the adenovirus responsible for it was supposed to have been discovered at the Government Ophthalmic Hospital in Egmore, Chennai, which is the second oldest ophthalmic hospital in the world. This led to this disease getting a particular term. What is the common name for conjunctivitis? 5People used to believe that mental health was affected by the phases of the moon but various studies have disproved this. But it was so prevalent that one of the words we use to describe insanity is derived from the Latin word for moon. What is this term that you’ve probably used to describe someone as being mad? 6This disease has been plaguing mankind for thousands of years. Egyptians first recorded its symptoms on papyrus more than 3000 years back. The very first clinical test for this disease was in India where ants were used for confirming diagnosis. Even during the later centuries European doctors used to taste the urine of patients to confirm this disease. What problem is this which is one of the fastest growing diseases, thanks to more people living sedentary lifestyles? 7Ernst Moro was an Austrian paediatrician who discovered that breast-fed children had stronger bactericidal activity in their blood than bottle-fed ones. His biggest contribution was carrot soup. Known as Moro’s carrot soup, he peeled and pureed carrots in water, added salt and served it. This simple dish exponentially decreased the death of babies off a then deadly (now simple) issue. What is it? 8Many cultures and civilisations have known for thousands of years about the properties of salicylates, for example the medicinal property of white willow, which contains derivatives of this substance. However, it was only in the 1800s that this chemical was first isolated in a lab and much later the form in which we know it today was patented. What is the generic name of this painkiller? 9In 5,000 years of medical history only two diseases have been completely eradicated, both caused by viruses. First was Rinderpest, an infectious viral disease of cattle. The other was caused by one of two virus variants, Variola major and Variola minor . The earliest mention of this disease was in the 3rd century BC in Egyptian mummies and the last confirmed case was in 1977. What disease was this that was finally certified as eradicated by WHO in 1980? 10Melatonin is a hormone released by the pineal gland that regulates sleep and wakefulness in the body. It has been proved that light from a popular artificial device hampers the production of melatonin and thereby interferes with the sleep cycle. Unfortunately nowadays people seem to spend more time on this. What device is this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31260730.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Reading the tea leaves||At a time when the Indian tea industry is passing through a crisis which seems to be more structural than cyclical, An Elephant Kissed my Window with its anecdotal narratives from tea lands provides as refreshing a break as does a steaming cup of the amber brew after a hard day’s work. Born in the year India gained Independence, M. Ravindran, one of the co-authors, joined a British-owned plantation company near Ooty, traversing through the tea-growing regions of the Nilgiris, Anamalais and Meghamalai till the turn of the century. His co-author Saaz Aggarwal whose own life was intertwined with plantation life, has woven in context, fleshing out memories from Ravindran and others, while also including her own. Brown sahibs The result is a 269-page compendium of personal recollections, excerpts from gazetteers’ journals and photographs. It documents how the brown sahibs stepped into the shoes and the lifestyle of the British who started departing from the tea industry which they had started in the mid-1830s. “While the label brown sahib is not always considered a complimentary one, it must be said that much of what we inherited was solid, value-based and stood us in good stead,” he writes, mentioning a ‘user’s manual — a handyman’s guide’ which offered advice on agriculture and pest management for the planter. A thick calico-bound book, it was too precious for borrowing to be permitted, he says. This and many of the other writings come from Ravindran who joined the plantations as a trainee assistant manager. He talks of the ‘excruciating loneliness and homesickness’ he suffered in an alien climate and environ. He was at an estate called Prospect which was then one of the most prestigious tea factories in South India. His plight may ring a bell with many a planter of yesteryears. Through his almost diary-like entries we come to know of the visit of Mada Gowda, the plantation inspector who checked for compliance with provisions of the powerful Plantation Labour Act. This sort of governance seems lacking now with many tea companies becoming recalcitrant about labour welfare. As Ravindran learns his job, so does the reader. Elephants for company The eponymous pachyderm does cross the readers’ path many times in the book. And no, they do not only kiss windows and go away. At times they jeopardise the lives of young couples caught in the jungle in a car with a flat tyre and they even trample a pet dog. Saaz Aggarwal’s reminiscences enrich the book through endearing anecdotes of how she and her brother would quarrel and pull each other’s hair to de-stress during their long and arduous journey to and from school and the estate bungalow. While books on the Assam and the Darjeeling tea industry are easier to find, the authors need a round of applause for this volume. The aroma of the strong-bodied South Indian teas wafts around long after the last chapter has been read. The reviewer is an independent Kolkata-based journalist.  An Elephant Kissed my Window M. Ravindran, Saaz Aggarwal B&W  Rs. 500||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reading-the-tea-leaves/article31260717.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Hungry yarns||Textile activist Sabita Radhakrishna’s novel, The Looms of Arivoor, is a compelling attempt to drive home the current predicament of traditional weavers. Retired IAS officer and handloom aficionado Tilak doesn’t want the weavers to become part of a government cooperative, which he believes will stymie their creativity. This starts a battle of will between him and his friend, master weaver Kulasekhara. For the weaver community, hunger is more urgent than artistic freedom, a fact that seems to be lost on Tilak. How the two parties deal with this dilemma unfolds in this short read. Tilak and Kulasekhara may well be the protagonists, but it is mostly the women of Arivoor, a fictional village in the outskirts of Chennai, who drive the story. Sundari, Tilak’s wife, and Ponni keep the wheels turning for their families. Of the two, Ponni is handed the rough end of the stick. She laments at one point that she, the wife of the master weaver, has to live off Sundari amma’s hand-me-downs, and you cannot help but feel for her.  The Looms of Arivoor lays bare the contrast in priorities of the haves and have-nots. For all of Tilak’s talk about being Kulasekhara’s lifelong friend, their relationship never rises above that of a benefactor and beneficiary, defined by their social realities. The village of Arivoor is teeming with fascinating characters, and it’s a shame that we get to know so few of them. The ones we do meet rarely get a chance to reel us into their lives, disappearing instead with scant regard for closure. For instance, Alamelu, the gorgeous — and starving — wife of one of the weavers and one of the more memorable characters, gets less than her due. Khursheed, Tilak’s college flame, gets a parallel storyline with a lot of potential but it gets an unimaginative and predictable ending. Radhakrishna’s descriptions of village life are a delight. Herein lies her strength as a novelist, as opposed to dialogue-writing, which is laden with dramatic outbursts and feels more suitable for a play. In fact, the novel has been adapted from Radhakrishna’s play, Song of the Loom . Her background as a food researcher shines through as does her passion for the textile industry — combined, they light up the most mundane scenes.  The Looms of Arivoor  Sabita Radhakrishna Bigfoot Publications Pvt. Ltd.  Rs. 225||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hungry-yarns/article31260699.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Delightfully meandering mystery||Assam, 1922. Sam Wyndham is on leave from his job with the Calcutta police to recuperate in the quaint Khasi hill station of Jatinga; not in its posh clubhouse but in an ashram treating addicts through the tough regime of a week-long vomiting cure. The monks suggest he pass time with books. “Reading broadens the mind.” To which the stiff-upper-lipped Wyndham wryly responds, “So does opium.” Do or die But then a ghost from the past — 1905 — appears in this novel that’s skilfully woven around flashbacks of an inconclusive, botched locked-room-murder investigation (involving Wyndham’s first love Bessie as its victim). The crime scene: London’s East End, a milieu of dingy Whitechapel public houses and once squalid streets like Brick Lane (now hep destination for curry outings), forms an extremely evocative backdrop to a high-stakes drama. It would be an understatement to say that the once-promising constable Wyndham, now Captain of the CID, ended up in India in 1919 because he was at a loose end and scarred by the Great War. He admits to himself at a central moment, “My wife was dead, as were my family, most of my friends and the better part of my soul. I’d come to Calcutta because it was a better option than suicide…” Now, in a remote colonial outpost in India’s northeast, he finds an opportunity to redeem himself — or die. He meets a new femme fatale in Jatinga — “We might all be created in the image of the Divine, but some of us were clearly closer to the original than others.” Naturally, what follows is a new locked-room-murder echoing the one in 1905. This makes for a delightfully meandering novel with a classic plot symmetry, very unlike the bluntly purposeful thrillers of today that offer little linguistic joy or existential nourishment. Or as Wyndham broods: “They say the human mind seeks to make sense out of chaos. How much easier it was to simply ascribe these things to the fates or the gods than to face the truth: that the universe was a callous, capricious place, where bad things happened to good people because there was no good reason why they shouldn’t.” Period details Abir Mukherjee has had a meteoric rise, with four books over the last four years, translated into 15 languages. His multi-laurelled debut in 2016 — aptly called A Rising Man — was set in Calcutta in 1919, a city of enormous riches where Wyndham, India greenhorn, is tasked with a politically sensitive investigation at a tumultuous time when calls for independence were growing louder. He teams up with the only Indian detective in the colonial police force, ‘Surrender-Not’ Banerjee, who becomes a sidekick-like fixture. This was followed by A Necessary Evil ; set a year later, it takes readers to the exotic world of maharajahs and sordid feudal oppression. The energetic novelist needed only another year to bring out Smoke and Ashes , in which Wyndham is a full-blown addict (which pre-figures the novel under review) and its plot is woven around Calcutta’s opium dens. This literary project clearly has epic dimensions as well as important socio-historical relevance — analysing the late-Raj era — and has attracted multiple awards, shortlistings and longlistings, while instalment #5 is already in the works. It’s interesting that Mukherjee makes his mark in such a retro genre — but then again not surprising, considering how Sherlock Holmes and Miss Marple remain bestsellers in India and have been mined for ideas by the likes of Satyajit Ray and Kalpish Ratna, respectively. Mukherjee opens with an epigraph from Conan Doyle’s His Last Bow and ends by hoping that his latest offering contains “a means of murder that might have made Agatha Christie proud”; and, as in those English penny-dreadfuls of yore (in marked difference from the American noir that developed as its counterweight), death largely happens off-stage, the murder methods are contrived, and the scarce dramatic set pieces tend towards melodramatic slapstick. Maybe this is attributable to Christie’s preferred dainty approach to hard-boiled stuff and Sherlock’s armchair-detecting: they simply left no template for epigones to emulate when it comes to writing action scenes. In Mukherjee’s bygone world, the rookie bobby out chasing suspects crawls into a bathhouse through a window at night only to fall flat on his face, lose his revolver in the dark, and stumble about like a lunatic playing hide-and-seek with himself, until he gets caught by villains with Germanic accents who waterboard him. Another time, other villains cosh him and he wakes up tied to a chair… Fun, but it does shatter the realism. Yet there’s a greater artistic purpose behind Mukherjee’s dishing up rose-tinted nostalgia for an India in which curried haggis once featured on menus. The preference for Chaplinesque violence apart, Mukherjee has a rarely faltering ear for genuine-sounding dialogue, period details feel authentic, and I’d say his prose ups Christie’s. And, unlike her, he displays a morally guided political conscience that her ilk lacked (because no such notions existed then in British drawing rooms). No doubt he’s going to be one of the most successful Indian writers of the 2020s. The writer is a detective novelist based in Bengaluru.  Death in the East Abir Mukherjee Harvill Secker  Rs. 599    The monks suggest he pass time with books. ‘Reading broadens the mind.’ To which the stiff-upper-lipped Wyndham wryly responds, ‘So does opium’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/delightfully-meandering-mystery/article31260701.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Mrs. Tweedy sniffs around||The way Bulbul Sharma’s latest book begins, the last thing you would expect is murder and mayhem. It opens with a lyrical description of the heat in the plains, contrasting it with cool Shimla and moves on to introduce Mrs. Tweedy and Inspector Ram Sen. It is pre-Independence era, with World War II raging in the larger world. That chaos doesn’t seem to have touched the lives of the British citizens in Shimla, where tea and dinner parties and gossip sessions continue unabated and the next major excitement is the Viceroy’s Ball. Then a young woman is found dead right in the house of the Assistant Commissioner of Shimla Hills, William Parker-Smith. Nobody seems to know who the murdered woman is. She had walked in during dinner the previous evening bearing a note from a common friend. While most of the house guests are indifferent to the death, it seems to have a major impact on Parker-Smith’s wife, Helen. Inspector Sen, who is initially put in charge of the case, is intrigued by the ensemble cast in the house and the fact that his head office in Delhi seems to want this case shoved into the bin. Despite the warnings of his superior, he continues to sniff around. Meanwhile, Mrs. Tweedy, who writes romantic fiction so that she can continue to stay on in India, is also on the job, chatting with members of the household and offering Sen some leads. Am I the only one being reminded of Miss Marple and Inspector Dermot Craddock here? The only person in the house who cares enough to help the inspector is Mary, Parker-Smith’s niece. On a visit from England, Mary finds the callousness with which the others in the house treat the murder most upsetting. Her unwitting probing leads her to the truth. Or shall we say, truths? The resolution, when it comes, is highly satisfactory. This is a must-read for fans of old-fashioned whodunnits.  Murder in Shimla Bulbul Sharma Speaking Tiger  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mrs-tweedy-sniffs-around/article31260705.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||At home in the world of the Halakkis, Konyaks, Marias||Think ‘isolated tribes’ of India and the images that will present themselves will probably be of labour-hardened men and women protesting with bows and arrows; JCBs throwing up the red earth of their homes; video clips of scantily-clad Jarawa women dancing for the delectation of tourists — in short, stereotypical images that frame them as ‘museum pieces’ (as one Andamans’ MP memorably described the Jarawas) and present their problems in a suitably picturesque way for getting the sympathetic but safely distanced tch tch from the mainstream. To go behind the scenes and see the tribals as animated figures withs joys and problems that are universal but also particular to their circumstances and history, one must read Nidhi Dugar Kundalia’s White as Milk and Rice . Her ‘humble attempt to not bring this margin to the centre, but to make the margin a place of reality’ is a richly in-depth study of tribal life, not viewed from the outside, but felt from within. Letting women speak Kundalia achieves this by employing that oldest of methods — storytelling, which tunnels into the mind of the subject and sees the world through her eyes. Of course, it’s not a foolproof method for objectivity — nothing is. One can guess Kundalia’s leanings — she lets the woman speak most of the time; the narrations overturn the notion of the tribes as less civilised, recording how robustly avant-garde some of their social customs are (the Marias of Bastar, for instance, ‘believe in the primordial authenticity of lust’); there are seemingly innocuous vignettes of people in positions of power, like the havaldar who ‘nods along, never looking up from the potato-stuffed kachoris’ when the sarpanch comes to lodge a complaint of robbery in his village. But there are counter-checks: the narrators are women and men; some tribal customs, like that of head-hunting among the Konyaks of Nagaland, are anachronistic and impermissible; if the havaladar is not too attentive towards the sarpanch’s plea, the sarpanch’s claim to meek powerlessness has the havaldar recalling a sower who was whipped by this sarpanch. This jangle of perspectives makes for a 360-degree view. The only side that gets no sympathy is the state, which has always harmed the tribes, either by being paternalistic or by pushing them out of their lands for development’s sake. Forest dwellers Kundalia’s stories are of the Halakkis of north Karnataka; the Kanjars of Chambal; the Kurumbas of the Nilgiris; the Marias of Bastar; the Khasis of Shillong; the Konyaks of Nagaland. A member of each tribe lets us into their lives: the narratives, however, are not representative of the views of the entire tribe. The sketches, even of the Kanjars, the forest vagabonds infamous as the dacoits of yore, are so skilfully executed that you start thinking like them, with them. Unsentimental portraits And yet the portraits are unsentimental: when a Kanjar bride is thought to have failed the virginity test, they burn her alive; animals are getting sparse in the forests around the Konyak villages — ‘most of them already hanging as skulls on the walls’ of the tribal homes. That said, some of the portraits (like those of the Kanjars and Marias) are more convincing than the others. This disparity is a result of the narrative technique: who are the protagonists — are they real individuals, stand-ins for the author or fictive beings? Kundalia doesn’t specify. When the protagonists are powerfully imagined, the stories acquire authenticity and when they are not (as with the Khasis and Konyaks), a vagueness takes over, making the portraits tilt more on the side of fiction than non-fiction. Cavils notwithstanding, White as Milk and Rice drew me in like that seminal work of anthropology, Lévi-Strauss’s Tristes Tropiques . Not the least because of its language, which is as effortlessly lyrical: ‘In the Gondi language of the Marias, there is no future tense because their lives function around the availability of the natural resources around them: land, forests and water.’  White as Milk and Rice: Stories of India’s Isolated Tribes Nidhi Dugar Kundalia Ebury Press  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/at-home-in-the-world-of-the-halakkis-konyaks-marias/article31260713.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The memories we leave behind||Most people don’t know that one of the fiercest battles during the Second World War was fought in Kohima. The invading Japanese Army was forced to retreat by British and Allied troops in Kohima and Imphal. Today, on the ridge where the brutal fighting took place is a beautifully maintained war cemetery. There are some 1,420 graves of British and Allied troops and 900 of Indian soldiers. Though many Nagas also fought to save their land, sadly, there is only one Naga grave — of a 21-year-old man. Each grave, though just a slab of grey stone, tells the story of a young man far from home and the memories he left behind for those who grieved for him. The words used on these graves — beloved, cherished, selfless, pride, joy, adored, the light of our lives, irreplaceable — tells the story of each man buried there. I could not but help think of the memories each one had left behind in those words. I remembered my two music teachers, Misses Wroughton, during my childhood in the U.K. who had large pictures of handsome young men on top of the piano — brothers, lovers, fathers and uncles who did not come back from the war. Though it was 20 years later, they still spoke of them with shaking voices, eyes brimming. Now standing by these graves, I remembered some of the words they used, the words inscribed on so many of these graves. Priest and writer Henri Nouwen in his book Bread for the Journey often emphasises the need to deliberately make good memories for our friends and family. Take the time, he says, give surprises, create time for togetherness, rejoice in everything, knowing that our loving actions are the memories our loved ones will have of us one day. Be the beloved for those around us. Be the cherished friend. Be the light of someone’s life. How does one do this in our busy time-bound lives? I took a day off from my tightly packed schedule and invited my daughter for a day at the beach. She was alarmed initially, then happily joined me. We sat on the warm sand and played our favourite songs. Then we read poems to each other, and finally sat holding each other’s hands watching the waves crashing into the sand. We saw the first stars come out and much later a beautiful crescent moon. “I’ll never forget today,” she said. “Good. Maybe 20 years from now, you will remember a day when you sat with your mother on the beach and did nothing but listen to music, read poetry and saw the stars.”  ushajesudasan@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-memories-we-leave-behind/article31260682.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Gunga’s sneaky play||Today’s deal was played recently in China. South was a Chinese expert known by his nickname — Gunga. As we’ve said before, the popularity of Multi Two Diamonds, where all weak two-bids are opened with a bid of two diamonds, has the world looking for other possible uses for opening bids of two hearts and two spades. The result on this deal is not likely to garner support for this particular use. Gunga gave up on spades, knowing that West had five of them, and made the practical bid of four hearts. He played the queen from dummy on the opening club lead and ruffed East’s ace. Knowing that West held five spades, almost certainly headed by the king, Gunga made a spectacular deceptive play — he led the seven of spades from his hand! Poor West had no idea what was happening and innocently played low. West was crestfallen when dummy’s eight held the trick.  Gunga discarded his diamond on the king of clubs and led a heart to his queen. When that held, he cashed the ace of hearts. This drew all of the enemy trumps and there was still one trump left in dummy. Gunga used it to take a ruffing finesse against West’s king of spades and ended up taking all 13 tricks! Nicely done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gungas-sneaky-play/article31260729.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Beating around bush||Respected Madam/Sir, First of all whether everybody is ok in the office or no? Please convey all the sentiments from Mathrubootham family to all colleagues and family members. Madam/ Sir, what and all is happening in the world these days? Total confusion. Total panic. But you will say Mr. Mathrubootham why you are worried about world and all? You just sit and worry about India no? Whether any panic and confusion is there? Madam/ Sir, what you are talking like fools. Prime Minister is even opening mouth means peace of mind is gone. First time he made one speech and people are beating pressure cooker and frying pan. Next time he made one more speech and police are beating people with frying pan. Next one more speech means what is beating what? People will beat police? Frying pan will beat people? Idli thattu will beat dosa kallu ? Why when PM making speech immediately something is beating something? Any explanation? Meanwhile, it is non-stop tension in house. Mrs. M is talking as if we will never leave house for next 35 years. Yesterday I said Kamalam, let’s have vegetable biryani for lunch? She looked at me in slow motion like Ramya Krishnan looking at Rajini in Padayappa . She said, if we will eat all vegetables today means what to eat tomorrow? Tomorrow don’t come crying, ok? I will tell you to go and stand in balcony and do photosynthesis. So I said, ok Kamalam, what we shall make then? She said please go into storeroom and look for all worst and horrible and expiry items. We will eat all that first. I looked at Kamalam in slow motion like Rajini looking at bull previously in Padayappa . Madam/ Sir, like that-like that, I spent two hours in store room making one mountain of useless food items. One packet of kollu from Jambuvan era. Two-three packet masala powder with expiry date from 1985. One pickle bottle that is falling behind gas cylinder. It is Caico Tender Mango pickle that is doing expiry before Indira Gandhi is doing expiry. I filled one plastic bucket full and carried into the kitchen. I said Kamalam, two hours I have collected every single useless item from the store. Can you believe it or not? Did you know that we are having 23 different types of sambar powder in this house from 1955 to 2013? But what is Kamalam doing? Kamalam is sitting on iPad and reading and reading like anything. I said Kamalam, what is it? Some new novel? She said old man one website is there. It is giving nonstop breaking news of coronavirus from all over the word. Oh my god, seven new cases in Bosnia! Oh no! Total lockdown in Slovenia! Old man, come! You also sit and read with me. I said Kamalam, this is virus or cricket match? You please sit and do time-wasting. I am going to take all these expired items and make amazing foodstuffs. For two-three hours I am cooking and cooking like anything. One recipe for kollu rasam is there in YouTube. So I made it carefully with all expired stuff. I said Kamalam, please you enjoy this wonderful dish. This is called cooking during time of coronavirus. Whether you are impressed or no? We both had two-three spoons of kollu rasam. Then Kamalam got up and went into kitchen. What happened after that? Madam/ Sir, moral of the story is simple. Without Prime Minister speaking also, people like Kamalam are beating other people. Such as myself.  Yours in self-isolation,   J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/beating-around-bush/article31260737.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The dulled click-clack||Recently, I visited a typewriting institute that still exists on the main road of busy Pondy Bazaar at T. Nagar in Chennai. It’s the same place where I did my course and passed the lower grade examination in English and Tamil in April 1963. The institute established in 1951 is being run by its founder’s heirs. The present owner felt immensely happy to find an old student remembering it after 57 years. I well remember the day of examination held in the nearby Ramakrishna Mission High School (Main) near Panagal Park on a heavy rainy day. My seat was near a window, and my fingers were shivering in the cold. Anyway, god was by my side, and I was called for the mechanism test. During this technical interview, when the examiner asked me the name of a particular part of the machine, I honestly told him that I knew the name but forgot then. The examiner repeatedly asked me whether I knew the name or not, but my answer was firm. He could not control his laughter and patted me for my innocent reply. Later, when I got selected as an office clerk in Southern Railway that year, the dealing clerk advised me to develop my typing skills to help my career. This helped me a lot in my official life for nearly four decades. By god’s grace, at this age of 75, my fingers are strong enough to use both computer and typewriter. Much before the advent of computers, typewriting machines ruled for decades. It was a symbol of professional and technical proficiency of an educated person. “Shorthand” was an additional qualification to get elevated as stenographer or personal secretary. Popularly known as “High Court typists”, many professional experts had extraordinary typing speed, using just a finger or two. At times, this boon became a bane, for the boss would know whether the typist is on the job or not, by the machine’s sound or silence. It was not uncommon in those days of typists rising to high positions by their hard work and commitment. Days have changed with the advent of computers that edit, modify, check spellings and give alternatives to what we want to write. mageshkumaradithya@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dulled-click-clack/article31260684.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanna, idli’s festive cousin||One of the greatest joys of childhood is that intoxicating cocktail of hope and anticipation. In these days of social distancing and Sunday masses that stream online, I can’t help but wonder: will all be well before Easter Sunday? Will our dining tables groan under the weight of Easter goodies? The answer may be a resounding No. But what’s the harm in a bit of vicarious feasting to get our mind off the gloom? Growing up in a devoutly Catholic household, hope and anticipation of the edible kind ruled us kids right through Lent, beginning with ‘Fat Tuesday’ when we gorged ourselves silly on white crêpe-like pancakes, their portly bellies stuffed with a lurid pink sweet coconut filling. Little did we know then that the white pancake signified the body of Christ and the pink stuffing, his blood. But morbidity aside, it was the dish we anticipated the most. Another Lenten delicacy that sat higgledy-piggledy atop each other on our dining table was the sweet-savoury steamed rice cake called sanna. Mum was not very well-versed in the art of making sannas, so we would always (and still) rely on the skills of Rosy Aunty for what was practically our quotidian Lenten supply. The ‘Idli-wali Aunty’, as she was called by her clueless Maharashtrian neighbours for whom an idli and a sanna were ‘same-same’, octogenarian Rosy Britto has been making sannas for as long as she can remember. Her bifocal glasses are perpetually fogged up by the plume of steam from her faithful copper sanna steamer called chondro in Goa and tondor in Mangaluru.  Same, but different  Often mistaken for an idli, a sanna is a Goan-Mangalorean festive delicacy made from a fermented mix of fat-grained parboiled rice, coconut, sugar, salt and that all-important leavening agent, the sap of coconut palm colloquially known as ‘toddy’ or sur in Konkani. Toddy is one of the main differences between sanna and idli. In idli, urad dal (black gram) is used for fermentation. Forsaking an idli steamer for a funnel-topped chondro steamer, sanna is always spooned into small, steel vatis (bowls), also called gindlaan in Mangaluru, which give it its round, cake-like shape unlike idli’s convex contours. Texturally, a sanna is spongier, with a glossy white finish unlike the more crumbly idli — although often the red Goan parboiled rice renders a few tiny red flecks onto a sanna’s surface. Its accompaniments too are very different from those of an idli: no chutneys  or sambar here.  With or without?  I always like to eat sanna  by itself. But I must admit to several rather unsuccessful pairing attempts over the years — with everything from Nutella to BBQ sauce. As a child, I once even convinced our cook to deep-fry a few bits of stale sanna with disastrous results. But for the most part, the duo of sanna ani dukramaas (pork meat) is considered the ultimate way to relish the rice cake. A rich, fiery red pork stew called sorpotel is the de facto plate fellow in Goa, and in Mangaluru the preferred accompaniment is a robustly spiced pork bafat, with the curry’s spiciness often tempered with a little roce (thin coconut milk). For sweet lovers like me, there is a dedicated sweet iteration of the sanna called godachi sanna, made with jaggery and best enjoyed at tea time. Interestingly, just like the steamed rice and milk dish called kiri-bhat in Sri Lanka and Kerala’s bamboo-steamed coconut and rice cake puttu, sannas crushed with a little milk, sugar and ghee are often fed to infants as their first solid meal. As I finish this piece, a little ray of hope beams down to me in the form of a reply to a panic-tinged text message I had sent someone important a few hours ago. “Yes, you’ll get your dozen sannas  this year, too!” Rosy Aunty reassures me, as I smile to myself in relief, hope and anticipation of that one constant even in the year of the pandemic. The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  The ‘Idli-wali Aunty’, as she was called by her clueless Maharashtrian neighbours, octogenarian Rosy Britto has been making sannas for as long as she can remember||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sanna-idlis-festive-cousin/article31260657.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Free press||The Centre approached the Supreme Court to get an order blocking media from publishing or broadcasting anything relating to COVID-19 “without first ascertaining the true factual position” from the government. The Court, however, said it would not interfere with any “free discussion about the pandemic”. Instead, it directed media outlets to refer to and publish the official version as well. It also asked the Centre to issue daily bulletins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/free-press/article31260661.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Van Gogh is not safe||A Van Gogh painting, valued at about £5m, was stolen from Singer Laren Museum in the Netherlands, closed during the pandemic. ‘Parsonage Garden’ was on loan from the Groninger Museum. Thieves smashed the glass front door of the museum, setting off a burglar alarm, but fled with the painting before the police arrived. Museum director Jan Rudolph de Lorm said he was “incredibly pissed off” by the theft. The painting was stolen on Van Gogh’s 167th birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/van-gogh-is-not-safe/article31260663.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus load||India saw a spike in COVID-19 cases, with over 1,900 cases and 66 deaths reported when this went to print. Many were traced to a mid-March meeting of missionary group Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Hundreds of attendees who returned to their States tested positive. The Home Ministry blacklisted 800 Indonesian preachers, while police booked leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/virus-load/article31260665.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Clean break||With tourist cancellations in Egypt reaching 80%, the government, having closed heritage spots, launched a disinfection drive. Ticket offices, visitor centres and walkways around the pyramids of Giza were sprayed. The pyramids themselves were not touched, as they need expert manpower and material, but were lit up in red in a message of solidarity for health workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/clean-break/article31260667.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Tiger on the table||WhatsApp and social media exploded with a flood of pictures of kids riding tigers and stroking great white sharks in their living room, thanks to Google’s new ‘live 3D’ feature that lets you virtually plant a wild animal in your home. At the time of lockdown, with kids on an interminable summer break, and parents scrambling for ways to keep them entertained, families briefly had a ‘zoo at home’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tiger-on-the-table/article31260669.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Refugee corner||Former Indian football captain Bhaichung Bhutia offered an unfinished apartment block he owns in Gangtok as a temporary shelter for migrant workers stranded in Sikkim during the lockdown. Adding that the building could accommodate about 100 people, Bhutia — who is stuck in Siliguri, away from his family in Kolkata — said in a video that 10 people were already staying there and were being provided food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/refugee-corner/article31260671.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanity misplaced||A group of migrant workers who came home to Bareilly, U.P., were sprayed with a chemical solution. Municipal and fire brigade officials had been told to sanitise buses, but they also doused the people, including children, in a spurt of misplaced enthusiasm. A video online highlighted the incident , resulting in widespread anger and an official nvestigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sanity-misplaced/article31260673.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Careful comeback||Wuhan in China, where it all began, gradually came to life as curbs were eased and no cases were reported for more than a week. But doubts remained about asymptomatic carriers, whose numbers China has not reported since mid-February. Meanwhile, the World Bank warned that growth in the East Asia and Pacific region could be as low as -0.5% this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/careful-comeback/article31260675.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Put to grass||For the first time since WWII, Wimbledon has been cancelled. The tournament, scheduled for June 29 to July 12, is the latest major sporting event to be cancelled or postponed this year. Earlier, the French Open was pushed from May 24 to September 20. As you can play on grass only in summer, postponement was not an option for Wimbledon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/put-to-grass/article31260677.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Eight Perfect Murders: A Novel||Peter Swanson  William Morrow $27.99 Biblio mystery meets thriller in this story of a bookseller being investigated by the FBI because a killer seems to be following his list of the most ingenious fictional murders. The killer seems to know the bookseller intimately, even the secret he has kept hidden from everyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/eight-perfect-murders-a-novel/article31260703.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The Other Bennet Sister||Janice Hadlow  Henry Holt and Co. Rs. 575.00 (Kindle price) This is the story of Mary Bennet, the marginalised middle daughter fromPride and Prejudice, the plain Jane who takes refuge in books. In true Austen fashion, Mary must accept herself for what she is before she can allow herself to acknowledge love.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-other-bennet-sister/article31260707.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Rose Bullet||Amrish Shah  Tara Press Rs. 299 A British journalist, Jannat Gill, is on an assignment to investigate the increasing number of NRI murders in the heart of Punjab. There she encounters Rajveer, the flamboyant son of the soil managing the family business, and falls dangerously in love.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rose-bullet/article31260709.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The Loneliness of Hira Baruah||Arupa Patangia Kalita  Macmillan Rs. 499 These short stories are of people living ordinary lives in Assam in times of prolonged socio-political disturbance. The sketches by the Sahitya Akademi winner deftly blend social realism with magic realism and folklore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-loneliness-of-hira-baruah/article31260711.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Just Transferred||Bhavdeep Kang, Namita Kala  HarperCollins Rs. 599 Ashok Khemka has been in the IAS for 27 years and during that time has faced 53 transfers. Throughout his career, Khemka has suffered at the hands of his political masters for his refusal to compromise. Two journalists offer an insider’s view of India’s administrative machinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/just-transferred/article31260715.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||My Girlhood||Taslima Nasrin  Hamish Hamilton/Penguin Rs. 599 Set in the backdrop of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, this book recollects Taslima Nasrin’s early years. Her memories alternate between scenes of violence, her pious mother, the trauma of harassment and a journey that redefined her world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-girlhood/article31260722.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The RSS and the Making of the Deep Nation||Dinesh Narayanan  Penguin Random House Rs. 599 Relying on original research, interviews and analysis of current events, Narayanan traces the RSS’s roots. It may have been banned thrice but with political power, the RSS is going all out to embed its ideology in India’s genetic code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-rss-and-the-making-of-the-deep-nation/article31260724.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Capital and Ideology||Thomas Piketty  HUV/HarperCollins Rs. 2,499 In his follow-up book toCapital in the Twenty-First Century, Piketty argues for a new ‘participatory’ socialism, a system founded on an ideology of equality, social property, education and the sharing of knowledge and power. It is a bold proposal for a new and fairer economic system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/capital-and-ideology/article31260726.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3094||Across  1 Pieces of legacy media: limp nerd finally is getting thousands (6,5) 9 Berlioz finally ignored fussy sforzato, in a way (2,1,4) 10 Box with Her Majesty somewhere on the River Dee (7) 11 Depreciate how Cockney cavalryman travelled (5) 12 Pacify mad clown on the rampage (4,4) 14 That satire will be undisciplined if things continue as they are (2,4,4) 15 Last 40% of ‘mercy killings’: most of world’s population (4) 17 Some impeached a persistently dull pain (4) 19 ‘Cat’ anagram (anag.) is ‘act’? (5,5) 21 Named pup negligently; not yet investigated (8) 23 Cheat with a set of playing cards (5) 25 Singer’s floral ornament (7) 26 President that’s kind of green (7) 27 Word-botching and the like? (11)  Down  1 Florida salesman using every effort (4,3) 2 Old, almost stately Italian love song (1,4,3) 3 Perhaps artisanal terrine eaten for starters? (4) 4 Boots out Democrats: Biden’s finally implicated (3,7) 5 Hot air from 19th choice of squad? (5) 6 Spaced, Ideal, Taxi, Catastrophe, Outnumbered, Miranda and Seinfeld primarily? (7) 7 See a guard’s job brought about level-headedly (5,2,1,5) 8 Under a dark sun, crazily strong cannabis gets you stoned (5,2,1,5) 13 Old cove coming before academic for mighty battle (10) 16 Everyman sent cog spinning in barroom device (3,5) 18 Some member like 6, they say (7) 20 Crippling game in old America (7) 22 Greek troops not willing to participate (5) 24 Baseless, lurid ... containing this? (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3094/article31260733.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||sunday recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article31260659.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus: TCS uses AI for drug discovery||Scientists from TCS Innovation Labs in Hyderabad are harnessing the power of artificial intelligence (AI) to identify new molecules which might have the potential to target specific parts of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). Using new methods, they have identified 31 candidate small molecules, which may serve as inhibitors of the chymotrypsin-like protease, one of the key drug targets in the fight against COVID-19. The results have been posted in a preprint repository ChemRxiv. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in scientific journals. Target proteins The genome of the novel coronavirus codes for several proteins that have crucial roles in entry of the virus into the host cell, its replication, assembly and host-pathogen interactions. Some of these proteins that help the virus perform its functions are common targets for drug developers. Among these drug targets are the spike protein, which helps the virus attach itself to the host cell and enter it, and viral proteases which help it replicate. Role of viral protease “The viral RNA synthesises two long polyproteins when it infects human cells via a human cell surface protein. The role of the protease protein is to cut the polyproteins to individual proteins, so that new viruses can be assembled. This is important for its replication and survival,” explains Arijit Roy from the Life Sciences Division of TCS Innovation Labs, Hyderabad, in an email to The Hindu.  The chymotrypsin-like protease or the main protease primarily does the function of cleaving the polyprotein into proteins and the papain-like protease also aids in this process. The former was chosen as the drug target by the group for their research. First, using a database of approximately 1.6 million drug-like small molecules from the ChEMBL database, the researchers trained the generative deep neural network model. As a second step, the network was re-trained with protease inhibitor molecules. This was done with a view to narrow the focus of the neural network on to a smaller subset of the chemical space. “We trained the system with all available protease inhibitors and asked the pre-trained model to produce more new molecules that possess the characteristics of protease inhibitors,” says Dr. Roy, who is an author of the preprint. “Finally, we checked how well these newly produced molecules can bind to the target protein — chymotrypsin-like protease of the virus.” Starting from a space of nearly 50,000 molecules, the team has made a short list of 31 candidates. Two of the designed molecules had a high degree of similarity to Aurantiamide, a naturally occurring antiviral-compound. “Our aim was to create new molecules which possess the characteristics of protease inhibitors. We checked, whether these molecules retain all the drug-like properties. We also checked how easily they can be synthesised. All these were part of the AI-based model,” says Dr. Roy. Drug discovery is a complex process, needing several layers of validation before the drug may come in use. In this work, the researchers have brought down the time taken for the initial step of designing suitable candidate molecules for testing from years to just a week, reinforcing the power of AI in handling huge datasets. Clinical trials “TCS has signed an MoU for collaboration with CSIR. The clinical trials will take time. The first step is the chemical synthesis and biological testing in vitro, followed by pre-clinical testing on laboratory animals,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/coronavirus-tcs-uses-ai-for-drug-discovery/article31260801.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Novel coronavirus can be transmitted even before symptoms show up||A study of seven clusters in Singapore by Vernon J. Lee and others from the Ministry of Health, Singapore, provides some evidence that virus transmission to others (resulting in infection) can happen from one to three days before a person shows symptoms. But the World Health Organization maintains that the risk of getting infected with the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) from someone with no symptoms at all of Covid19 is “very low”. And it says that it is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of the virus. The transmission one to three days prior to onset of symptoms was seen in four clusters, while in three clusters the precise timing of transmission could not be established as the index case and the contacts lived together. The results were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.  Early detection and isolation of patients and contact tracing are important to contain the spread the virus. However, the existence of presymptomatic or asymptomatic transmission adds a new layer of complexity and challenge in tracing contacts. The first cases in Singapore was confirmed on January 23, and during the period from January 23 to March 16, 243 cases were reported of which 157 were locally transmitted. Of the 157 cases of local transmission, 10 (6.4%) cases have been during the period before the person who spread the virus to others showed any symptoms and hence were presymptomatic. Evidence from China This is not the first case where presymptomatic transmission has been seen. Looking at the serial intervals (the number of days between symptoms onsets in a primary case and a secondary case) in China, researchers had in a study suggested that 12.6% of transmission was presymptomatic. According to Los Angeles Times, a choir practice for 150 minutes in Washington on March 10 where 60 people participated left 45 people infected with the virus; two died from COVID-19. The county health officials concluded that the “virus was transmitted through the air from one or more people without symptoms”. Similarly, presymptomatic transmission of the virus has been documented in a nursing facility in Kind County, Washington. The results were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. In this case, a healthcare provider, who showed symptoms since February 26, tested positive on March 1 and seven others, too, tested positive for the virus by March 6. An investigation by the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that 23 of the 76 residents tested positive for the virus on March 13. Of the 23, 13 did not have any symptoms on the date of testing. Ten of the 13 asymptomatic residents developed symptoms seven days later and hence were presymptomatic at the time of testing. Some cases in Singapore and other countries suggest that viral shedding can occur in the absence of symptoms and before symptom onset. Avoidance of grouping “These findings suggest that to control the pandemic it might not be enough for only persons with symptoms to limit their contact with others because persons without symptoms might transmit infection. Finally, these findings underscore the importance of physical distancing in the public health response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the avoidance of congregate settings,” the authors write.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/novel-coronavirus-can-be-transmitted-even-before-symptoms-show-up/article31260802.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Shutdown alone is not enough to break the chain’||In an unprecedented measure, India on March 25 began a country-wide shutdown for 21 days to cut the transmission chain of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). Till Wednesday, India had adopted the containment measures of screening, testing, isolating and tracing contacts.   On March 25, The WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said: “Shutting down population movement is buying time and reducing the pressure on health systems. But on their own, these measures will not extinguish the epidemic. The point of these actions is to enable the more precise and targeted measures that are needed to stop transmission and save lives.” Among other measures every country should take, the WHO chief said the production, capacity and availability of testing has to be ramped up, and a system to “find every suspected case at community level” has to be implemented.   Giridhara Babu,Head of the Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, in an email to The Hindu explains how the shutdown along with testing can help flatten the curve.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi said 21 days of lockdown will help cut the transmission chain. Is that true?  Yes, it is the bare minimum period we require to be sure. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a 21-day nationwide shutdown is an effort to break the chain of transmission. India’s COVID-19 fight could make or break the global war. The “incubation period” means the time between catching the virus and beginning to have symptoms of the disease. Most estimates of the incubation period for COVID-19 range from 1-14 days. A lockdown for 21 days would be a great social experiment which allows physical distancing. If followed strictly, it will contribute to delayed peak and to an extent, in flattening of the curve. Lockdowns may have to get extended in the areas with high transmission. It is important to identify such areas. India has imposed the lockdown much earlier than many countries, including China, which failed to contain the initial spread of the virus. Although it started late, the Wuhan shutdown slowed the dispersal of infection to other cities by an estimated 2.91 days, delaying epidemic growth elsewhere in China. Other cities that implemented control measures pre-emptively reported 33.3% fewer cases in the first week of their outbreaks compared with cities that started control later. Why were Wuhan and other cities under lockdown for two months? In Wuhan, the measures started much later as compared to what India is doing. It takes that much longer when you start late. The initial outbreak of COVID-19 started in China and it was spread across before diagnoses and prreventive measures could be established. Not just China, by then the virus had spread to other countries as well. As a result, longer lockdowns of nearly two months were required in some regions. Before the interventions, scientists estimated that each infected person passed on the coronavirus to more than two others, giving it the potential to spread rapidly. But between January 16 and 30, a period that included the first seven days of the lockdown, the virus reproduction decreased from 2.35 to 1.05. The number of new daily infections in China seems to have peaked on January 25 just two days after Wuhan was locked down. Epidemiologists say that measures implemented during this time did work. But China’s mammoth response had one glaring flaw: it started too late. This delayed the measures to contain it. In China, implementing the measures three weeks earlier, from the beginning of January, would have cut the number of infections to 5% of the total. Will complete shutdown for 21 days alone be enough to break the chain? Is it right to say that shutdown only buys time? It is right to say that shutdown not only buys time but also decreases the overall burden and delays the outbreaks in most places. Stronger containment measures done together with these mitigation measures will ensure flattening the epidemic. Mitigation measures or shutdown alone are not enough to break the chain of emerging COVID-19 pandemic. The containment strategies include identifying all cases which are positive and identifying their contacts, too. Once identified, cases will have to be isolated, and contacts will have to be placed under quarantine. Mitigation is a precursory measure and if containment is also not done, it is not going to help. Both need to go hand-in-hand. Also, reviewing of States where any single case is confirmed is need of the hour. Contact tracing of all those people who might have got the infection is highly needed. Only then will India succeed in current strategies to combat COVID-19. What then should be done during the lockdown? Aggressive testing alone without mitigation doesn’t help in breaking the chain of transmission. Without mitigation, the spread of the infection from one person to another will happen at a faster rate. We may find a certain number of cases doubling every week, also the number of deaths. The lockdown is an opportunity for us to rapidly scale up the capacity to have enough resources to manage, isolate and provide intensive care for those who needed it. Both measures going hand-in-hand could have a reasonable effect on flattening the epidemic curve. The revisions in testing strategy involving accredited private laboratories too could not solve the issue since only a particular number of suspected can be tested in a day. With its high population, testing everybody in India is out of the question. Therefore, we need to follow mitigation measures. I recommend the syndromic approach now, wherein we need to manage every case of fever, cough and respiratory distress as COVID-19 unless otherwise proved. Once testing is scaled up, this can get better. Should India find all suspected cases in the community and test them, as per WHO’s recommendation? This virus effectively hides and quickly doubles. By testing only suspect cases, we might miss many of those who are asymptomatic during screening. The best strategy is to test among the SARI (severely affected respiratory infections) admitted in the hospitals and the OPDs of these areas. Many States have not even begun testing such cases. This is part of March 23 national recommendations. Therefore, strong national and local surveillance review is needed. There is a potential to cause illness suddenly in large numbers of people. Without having an idea of the total number of cases, it would become guesswork to plan for the future management of COVID-19. Can contact tracing, quarantining and testing of contacts of people who participated in the religious congregation in Nizammudin alone be sufficient? Tracing such contacts, quarantining them and testing such cases are definitely most necessary but not sufficient by themselves. Wherever hot spots are present, stricter enforcement of lockdown, even beyond what is already announced is needed. There should be enforcement of active surveillance in these areas for any flu-like illness, and people should be encouraged to self-report. Other measures such as providing accurate information and building awareness in the hot spots, especially on personal hygiene, hand hygiene and cough etiquettes are necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/shutdown-alone-is-not-enough-to-break-the-chain/article31260799.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Update on India’s war against COVID-19||Since early March, our war against COVID-19 has been making steady progress in India. This has involved detection, protection, prevention, prescription and participation. Purposefully, private groups, industries, medical fraternity, scientists and technologists have joined hands together with the government in this war, both through financial contributions and participation by involving their R&D expertise. Government agencies such as DST, DBT (and its BIRAC), SERB, CSIR, ICMR, DMR, MHFW, DRDO, and others have announced several grants focusing on specific aspects related to this war, while the Tata Trust, WIPRO, Mahindra, the Wellcome Trust India Alliance and several multinational pharma companies have come forward in this joint effort. Detection, prevention, protection The first thing is to detect whether a person has been infected by the virus. Since COVID-19 spreads within the moist part of the inner nose and throat, one measures the temperature of the individual around his nose and face, using a thermo-screening device (as used with arriving passengers in airports, or entering buildings and factories). Better devices of greater speed, detail and accuracy, such as whole-body scanners which depict body temperatures with colour codes on a computer monitor have come about from abroad. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has been offered 1,000 digital thermometers for screening, and 100 full-body scanners. Clearly India needs these by the thousands. This need has triggered some computer industry people in India to make such body scanners here at home, a positive step. We hope these can come about at the soonest. Once an individual is tested positive this way, it needs to be confirmed by doing a biological test to make sure that it is coronaviral infection. Until a month ago, we needed to import kits to do this. Today, more than a dozen Indian companies (most notably by the MyLab-Serum Inst.duo which can make several lakhs of these kits a week) have made them, each certified by the national body. This has rapidly expanded the scale of reliable testing rapidly across the country. Once tested positive, the patient has to be isolated and quarantined in appropriate centres. This has been done with remarkable speed and reliability, as mentioned below. An important way to protect oneself against the invasion by the virus is to wear a mask. We constantly hear about how these are not available or sold at exorbitant cost. The notion that it is not always necessary is wrong. As the well known infection expert Dr. Jacob John of Vellore clarifies ( The Hindu, April 2), it is vital that we mask ourselves as we move about in streets, since the virus is also airborne. Towards this, even as many entrepreneurs and firms across India have started making these at affordable costs, social media such as WhatsApp show the typical jugaad ways of using a baby diaper (unused!), male banian (unused!), the pallu of a saari, or dupatta and such. Happily enough, after the government clarifications and advice on this matter, more and more people are now seen to mask themselves. TV channels are also doing a useful service by inviting experts and asking them to offer relevant advice to people who have specific questions and doubts about protection in specific individual instances. In this connection, a very recent piece of advice on protection has been given to people wearing glasses, (and also to eye doctors whom they consult) by my colleague Dr. Muralidhar Ramappa of the L V Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad. He says: (1) If you wear contact lenses, switch to glasses for a while. (2) Wearing glasses may provide a layer of protection. (3) Do not skip your eye exam, but take precautions. (4) Your eye doctor may recommend some more precautions. (5) Stock up your prescribed eye medicines, if you can and (6) avoid rubbing your eyes. In addition to what the Central and State governments and notable private hospitals (for example, Apollo, Medanta and others) have set up as isolation and quarantine centres, several private agencies have helped set up these in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Haryana, West Bengal, and helped equip them (for example, Infosys Foundation, Cyient, Skoda, Mercedez Benz, and Mahindra). These are some examples of how governments and private agencies have joined hands — as they say: We are all in this together. Another exciting advance towards protection (and prevention of spread) has been the large scale production of incubators, ventilators and devices to monitor the individuals who have been placed in such quarantine centres. Mahindra has successfully made ventilators in large scale at affordable prices, and DRDO has come up with a special kind of tape in order to make patient protection gowns for clinicians, nurses and paramedics. Can India offer drugs? While the possibility of a preventive vaccine for large scale use in India is at least a year away, we need to turn to molecular and drug-based approaches, in which India has great internal expertise and teams of excellent organic and biological scientists. Rightly, the government and some drug companies have turned to them to locally prepare and use several drugs (favilavir, remdesavir, avigen and such), and also modify them using well-known methods. Indeed, the CSIR has already roped in organic chemists and bioinformatics experts who can predict the 3D structures of proteins, so as to look for potential areas on their surface to which molecules can fit (lock and key approach). I have every hope that with such team efforts, India will come out with ‘made in India’ drug molecules to overcome this killing virus. Yes, we can. Despite their full knowledge that millions of people have settled in cities and large towns, as daily wage labourers, far away from their families in villages, State and Central governments did not plan ahead for them, nor did they plan to reimburse their wages during the lockdown which blocked their getting back home. This led to a toss of social distancing and possible community spread. Social distancing is, alas, not in Indian culture, while herd mentality is. This could have been thought of by the social scientist advisors to the governments, and could have been avoided. (Disclosure: it is important to note that I have chosen to highlight only some examples here. There are several more ‘unsung heroes’ across the states and the nation. I hope they will not be offended that I have ignored them.) dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/update-on-indias-war-against-covid-19/article31260797.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||How long does SARS-CoV-2 stay potent?||The story so far: With a nascent virus, SARS-CoV-2, causing a global pandemic, the scramble has been, so far, and will be for a time to come, to understand the virus. While it belongs to the coronavirus family — variants of which cause the common cold — scientists and health-care workers are trying to fathom the nature of the virus, its behaviour and patterns, and gain familiarity with the pathogen, hoping that it will give them a better handle on this pandemic. It is known that coronaviruses, which primarily affect the upper respiratory tract in people, are transmitted through respiratory droplets. The simple act of being close to persons who sneeze or cough, even speak loudly (if they are carrying the infection) and the involuntary act of touching surfaces where the viruses have been deposited can infect someone. The period that the virus remains on the surface and remains capable of spreading infection, can be considered the period for which the virus is viable. What guides our understanding of viability? The Atlanta-headquartered Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has said that current evidence suggests that SARS-CoV-2 may remain viable for hours to days on surfaces made from a variety of materials. Information listed on the CDC website says: “Cleaning of visibly dirty surfaces followed by disinfection is a best practice measure for prevention of COVID-19 and other viral respiratory illnesses in households and community settings.” One of the studies that guides our understanding of the viability of SARS-CoV-2 was done by the National Institutes of Health, CDC, UCLA and Princeton University scientists who found that SARS-CoV-2 was detectable in aerosols for up to three hours, up to four hours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard and the longest — up to two to three days — on plastic and stainless steel. The study was published in The New England Journal of Medicine on March 17, 2020 (https://bit.ly/3dTewEN), and postulated that the stability of SARS-CoV-2 was similar to that of SARS-CoV-1, but also that the novel coronavirus was more stable. The researchers wrote: “SARS-CoV-2 remained viable in aerosols throughout the duration of our experiment (3 hours)… Our results indicate that aerosol and fomite (materials capable of transmitting the infection) transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is plausible, since the virus can remain viable and infectious in aerosols for hours and on surfaces up to days.” An analysis by the CDC on the cruise ship Diamond Princess which had 3,700 passengers and which was quarantined after a large number of them developed COVID-19, showed that the SARS-CoV-2 RNA was found on surfaces in the cabins of people who were infected, for up to 17 days after the passengers disembarked, and before disinfection procedures were initiated. However, the analysis mentioned that “data cannot be used to determine whether transmission occurred from contaminated surfaces,” meaning the scientists were not the wiser about whether the virus on the surfaces infected people on the ship. Scientists are trying to estimate the decay rate of the virus on various surfaces to determine how long they will be potent or capable of spreading the infection to others who come into contact with the surfaces. There are, of course, no rules about survival on surfaces, since everything depends intensely on the environment as well. The World Health Organization (WHO), reacting to a global fear of the infection spreading via newspapers, said: “The likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes COVID-19 from a package that has been moved, and exposed to different conditions and temperatures is also low.” Additionally, the International News Media Association has recorded that there has never been a documented incident whereby the COVID-19 virus has been transmitted from a print newspaper, print magazine, print letter, or print package, citing doctors and scientists. The good news, scientists say, is that by themselves, viruses are not capable of multiplying; they need a host for that. So disinfecting surfaces, and practising hand hygiene, besides avoiding touching the face, will greatly reduce the chances of people catching infection from surfaces that are not reinfected. What is the solution? Disinfection helps in reducing the viral load in the environment, public health experts say. A 1 % hypochlorite solution is an effective disinfectant on various surfaces. Presently, massive disinfection efforts are being carried out in public places as a control measure. This is assuming that people would have spit in the open or sneezed without covering their mouth. Floors, walls and surfaces frequently touched by hands should be disinfected as per guidelines. This is because handrails of staircases, elevators, door handles, armrests of chairs, table surfaces can be contaminated by droplets. The CDC has also recorded on its website: It is unknown how long the air inside a room occupied by someone with confirmed COVID-19 remains potentially infectious. Facilities will need to consider factors such as the size of the room and the ventilation system design (including flowrate [air changes per hour] and location of supply and exhaust vents) when deciding how long to close off rooms or areas used by ill persons before beginning disinfection. Taking measures to improve ventilation in an area or room where someone was ill or suspected to be ill with COVID-19 will help shorten the time it takes respiratory droplets to be removed from the air. Is there something that people can do themselves? A good part of avoiding COVID-19 infection indeed rests on each and every individual. Following hand hygiene —washing hands frequently with soaps and sanitisers is key. Maintaining physical distance between one another is also very important. Measures such as a lockdown attempt to do precisely this: restrict the access of people to public spots, thereby making sure that there is no opportunity for gatherings in large numbers. It is important to respect the rules of the lockdown, those under quarantine must remain indoors, since asymptomatic people making sorties outside the home might spread the infection to others.  The good news, scientists say, is that by themselves, viruses are not capable of multiplying; they need a host for that. So disinfecting surfaces and practising hand hygiene will reduce the chance of infection||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-long-does-sars-cov-2-stay-potent/article31260745.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Future of north-east Delhi students at stake||With board examinations delayed due to the countrywide lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak, siblings Muskan and Sonam Ansari, residents of northeast Delhi, say their “career and future” is at stake and uncertain. Their examinations were first disrupted by the riots and now the epidemic. Uncertainty prevails Muskan, a student of St. Michael’s school in Gokalpur, said, “My physical education examination was on February 24 and that is the only paper I have been able to appear for. Due to the riots which broke out, the examination got postponed and since then, we have been waiting. First, we thought it would be rescheduled once everything calmed down but as luck would have it, now due to the lockdown, things are uncertain again.” “My last exam was supposed to be on March 31 but now I have only appeared for one. After the riots we are still trying to get our lives together and it is definitely not the same as earlier. These days we are having issues with ration also. While I am continuing to study, it is difficult at times as the situation is not conducive. I do not know what will happen. All our plans have gone haywire since February,” said Ms. Muskan, while stating that she wanted to pursue law. Her sister, Ms. Sonam, said, “I wanted to be a police officer and was hoping to fill up the requisite forms. But since the riots everything has become so hazy and all plans have been put on hold. Our house was looted.” “While the situation has improved, our future is quite uncertain. Had the examinations been done, it would still be better but because of the virus outbreak, now we don’t even know what the final dates will be,” she added. Irum Mansoori, a Class 10 examinee, said, “I have stopped studying as it is difficult to concentrate also. I will resume studies once the schedule is announced.”  While I am continuing to study, it is difficult at times as the situation is not conducive. I do not know what will happen. All our plans have gone haywire since February Muskan Northeast Delhi resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/future-of-north-east-delhi-students-at-stake/article31260993.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Why must COVID-19 clusters be identified?||The story so far: On Monday, the Delhi police cordoned off the area around a masjid located around 100 metres from the Nizamuddin dargah. Around 9,000 people from across the country, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Saudi Arabia had attended a gathering at the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi in March. Many returned home, and the government was alerted about a disease cluster when cases of COVID-19 surfaced in several States in people who had attended or were linked to the Nizamuddin gathering. Tamil Nadu, for instance, has identified all 1,103 people (from the State) who attended the conference in Delhi, helped by cooperation of the participants themselves. Several State governments have struggled to identify the participants as some of them switched off their phones or have simply gone off the radar. What is a disease cluster? A disease cluster is defined as “an aggregation of cases in an identifiable subpopulation.” Dr. Daniel Wartenberg, who spent more than a quarter century investigating such clusters in the United States, coined this definition in a research paper he wrote for the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society . The word ‘cases’ in the definition stands for people with similar symptoms or a medical condition and ‘subpopulation’ points to those who share or belong to the same space, time, family, workplaces, etc. Reports show that the novel coronavirus can travel about six feet from a diseased person and cause infection between two and four individuals. Thus, when people congregate in a place — typically for worship/shopping/commute — the chance of a disease spread multiplies, resulting in a cluster of cases. The size of a disease cluster could vary widely from just four cases to as many as 5,000 depending on the place visited by the infected individuals. All patients who belong to a disease cluster need not have shared space and time. For instance, a person who picks up the infection from a co-passenger during a flight may infect a taxi driver who picks him up from the airport. Such secondary transmissions also belong to the same cluster with the primary source being the passenger. The cluster keeps growing as the driver could infect a family member, the passenger could infect a nurse in a clinic after developing symptoms and so on. How are clusters identified?  Health workers often stumble upon clusters accidentally. In a paper published in The Lancet journal by the Singapore 2019 Novel Coronavirus Outbreak Research Team, the process of discovering clusters is described in detail ( see graphic ). The graphic shows one such cluster of cases which originated in a company conference in Singapore. The conference that happened between January 20 and 22 was attended by 111 participants from 19 countries and at least one of them was from Wuhan, China, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak. On February 4, Malaysia declared a person who had been to the conference as a COVID-19 case. Singapore authorities were alerted. The health workers contacted the other participants and quarantined them. Then they mapped their secondary and tertiary level of contacts (all those not infected by the primary case) — as shown in Part A of the graphic . Then they were tested and isolated if necessary. Once they found a set of cases among those who attended the conference, it was identified as a cluster. In parallel, the activity trails of the primary infected during the conference and also of others outside the conference were pieced together like a puzzle. Those who had come in contact with the infected during such activities, for example the hotel workers, were called in for testing. This is called contact tracing. Part B of the graphic shows detailed activity trails of all the primary, secondary and tertiary contacts. Such mapping also helps in calculating the time taken by each individual to show symptoms, or to be declared as suffering from COVID-19, from the time he or she was infected. This information impacts how future cases are handled. What are the challenges after identifying a cluster? Discovering a cluster is akin to a fire alarm going off. Every moment wasted will spread the fire further. The faster the infected individuals are identified and quarantined, the lesser the number of future contacts. But this is easier said than done. As of Saturday at least 1,023 positive cases in 17 States/Union Territories have been linked to the recently discovered Nizamuddin cluster in India. The cluster which was discovered in late March originated in a religious congregation in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi. As of April 2, 9,000 people linked to the event which happened in mid-March have been traced, according to the Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, Lav Agarwal. Close to 1,300 of them were foreigners, he said. In such large clusters, identifying the participants will be challenging. Reports from Tamil Nadu show that the attendees came forward in numbers after the State’s Chief Minister issued an appeal. On Friday, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that around 1,400 people from the State, who had attended the Delhi event, had been traced. Mr. Tope said these people are being isolated or quarantined by the district administrations. Sources said Andhra Pradesh is tracing the digital footprints of those who tested positive for COVID-19. As those who were infected respond differently in each State, a common protocol cannot be followed and this has pushed the States to adopt various uncharted methods making the process challenging. Why must the activity trail be followed? A group of attendees took an early morning flight from Delhi on March 24 and landed in Port Blair, Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Another group boarded a train to Erode, Tamil Nadu. One of the attendees, Navi Mumbai’s index patient, had visited Noor Masjid in Vashi, Maharashtra. This led to a secondary transmission to six people, including the secretary of the mosque, his friend, son, grandson and maid and another person who was present at the mosque. This shows that the attendees fanned out to various locations after the conference and engaged in a variety of activities. This leads to the possibility of a wide range of secondary and tertiary transmissions across many States of India. How have clusters functioned in other countries? Almost all countries have discovered a large cluster and in most of them, the number of COVID-19 cases shot up after identification of the infected and contact tracing began. As of April 4, South Korea has mapped 83% of its cases to some clusters. More than 51% of the country’s cases originated from the Shincheonji Church of Jesus. And most of the infections were allegedly brought to the church by a 61-year-old woman who ignored her symptoms and attended the church. In Austria, the Ischgl Ski Resort is said to have been linked to 600 cases. A funeral in George Town, Albany, U.S. may have resulted in more than 600 infections. The Osaka Live Music Venue in Japan is directly linked to 80 cases. A dinner party in Singapore is linked to 43 cases.  Discovering a cluster is akin to a fire alarm going off. Every moment wasted spreads the fire further. The faster the infected individuals are identified and quarantined, the lesser the number of future contacts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-must-covid-19-clusters-be-identified/article31260741.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||CNG cremation for COVID-19 deceased at Punjabi Bagh||Punjabi Bagh cremation ground has decided to send the bodies of those who die of COVID-19 — in case they arrive — straight to CNG machine cremation space and not let them be cremated according to the traditional method. The head priest of one of the noted cremation grounds in the Capital, Pankaj Sharma, said, “In case a person who has died of COVID-19 is cremated here, the family will be informed to send the body to the CNG machine. The bodies also come with a doctor and municipal staff, we have been informed,” he said. The traditional method of placing the mortal remains on the pyre of wooden logs to cremate is not allowed for COVID-19 deceased because, in his opinion, “the virus can spread with the fumes” and also, “it’s just a decision that has been made”. “Also, the bodies will not be unclothed for the last rites like they normally are. They’ll be cremated in the same clothes they are wrapped in by the hospital,” he said. Explaining the normal process, a staffer at the cremation ground said that first, the body is first showered with holy water and then placed on the pyre while the puja goes on simultaneously. The process will not be followed in case of a COVID-19 deceased. Talking about the measures taken by the crematorium in the wake of the epidemic and subsequent lockdown, Mr. Sharma said that not more than 10-15 persons are allowed inside the cremation ground from one family. “If there are more than 10-15 persons, they are asked to stand outside while maintaining distance. Also, as people enter and exit, not only are they asked to wash hands but also are provided with sanitisers,” he said, adding that chairs, gates and the entire premises is sanitised first thing in the morning. Ambulance sanitised The cremation ground also runs its free ambulance service and said that on an average, bodies of about 10-12 persons are arriving everyday. Ambulance is also sanitised after each body is brought. As a procedure, details of the deceased, including cause of death, is maintained in the diary kept by the crematorium for record. Talking about a change, ambulance driver Pritam said that most people, these days, are bringing the body straight to the cremation ground from the hospital in case the person dies in the hospital. “As a ritual, the body is usually taken home but these days, most people bring it straight here,” he said. A small group of men, a family from Punjabi Bagh who had lost a member of the family, were at the cremation ground. Apprehensive of sharing details, one of them said that movement for this purpose during lockdown was hassle free. “In fact, our relatives from Uttar Pradesh had also come. We had sent them the death certificate on WhatsApp which they showed to the police while on their way here,” one of them said.  The bodies will not be unclothed for the last rites like they normally are. They’ll be cremated in the same clothes they are wrapped in by the hospital  Pankaj Sharma  Head priest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cng-cremation-for-covid-19-deceased-at-punjabi-bagh/article31261000.ece
05 April 2020||Greater Noida,||Crematorium bars staff from touching bodies||The management at Moksh Dham, one of the largest cremation grounds in Greater Noida, has prohibited its staff from engaging in any physical contact with bodies being brought to it for funeral rites lest they contract COVID-19. While the number of funerals performed here, a daily average of one to two, remains more or less intact, the rush of family members who used to accompany the bodies has become negligible compared to the usual. “We have 24 chita sthals [funeral pyre spots]. This is the biggest cremation ground in the area. We see one to two cremations daily. That number hasn’t been affected due to this pandemic. Death is death. It comes when it wishes, irrespective, of whether or not there is a lockdown. And especially when such a disease has spread,” said Pandit Sachin Sharma, chief priest at the facility. Asked whether any COVID-19-related cremation had taken place at the facility, Mr. Sharma said he suspected one took place on Friday, but he chose not to know the truth. One suspected case “There was one body here yesterday [Friday]. The relatives said the death had happened at a hospital. There was something visibly wrong with the mouth of the deceased. I didn’t ask what the reason of the death was. But we are very careful since this virus outbreak. We do not touch the bodies, at all. Especially, those of individuals who passed away during treatment for one condition or another at hospitals,” he said. Apprehensions related to COVID-19 and the strict enforcement of the nationwide lockdown aimed at containing its community spread had, however, affected the footfall at its 15-bigha campus. “This entire parking area used to get packed with vehicles of the kin of the deceased who would be part of the funeral, but since this pandemic broke out only the immediate family accompanies the body,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/crematorium-bars-staff-from-touching-bodies/article31260989.ece
05 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Ensure transparency in ration distribution’||In a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRAA) has urged the State government to ensure transparency and accountability in distribution of ration in the city. Shops shut The letter stated that in the daily audits conducted by the food rights group, several ration shops were found to be shut due to supplies running out. The letter to the CM read: “In the absence of proper availability of stock and details of cardholders who have accessed their entitlements, it is impossible to verify such claims. This results in hardships to people who are unable to get their ration in the time of crisis.” In its April 4 report, the DRAA said that 10 of the 34 shops visited by the team were found to be closed. Citing the Delhi government’s March 26 order that said that supplies for two months would be delivered to ration shops, the letter added: “It is, therefore, not clear how the stock has finished already, especially since the update put out by the Delhi government on April 3 mentions that ration has been distributed to only 60% of cardholders. This raises serious concerns about the possibility of diversion of grains.” The DRAA also demanded the operationalisation of a grievance redressal mechanism to address issues faced by people who cannot obtain their share of ration. “At times of crisis, when people are facing food shortages, it is absolutely essential that people who are unable to access their ration entitlements are empowered to lodge a complaint and get time-bound redress,” the letter to Mr. Kejriwal read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-transparency-in-ration-distribution/article31260995.ece
05 April 2020||New Delhi,||Hospital seeks details of staff online groups||To “prevent” any “adverse comments or statements” on social media and the spread of fake news by hospital or college staff, the Vardhaman Mahavir College and Safdarjung Hospital in the Capital has asked for names and details of all admins of WhatsApp groups of staff members. The hospital is among those treating COVID-19 patients. Social media “This is required to prevent the spread of fake news, rumours or adverse comments/statements on social media and in the institution by any hospital/college staff. Therefore, you are requested to submit names, mobile numbers, e-mail of all administrators of WhatsApp groups pertaining to hospital staff in the office of the under signed,” an order issued by Prem Kumar, Additional Medical Superintendent, said. The order further said that it was for “urgent” and “strict” compliance. “This is issued with prior approval of competent authority,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hospital-seeks-details-of-staff-online-groups/article31260991.ece
05 April 2020||April 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Bounty from oil plunge||The story so far: Till U.S. President Donald Trump’s tweet the past week, on his conversation with Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Brent crude prices had been declining in an unprecedented manner, touching an 18-year low. Mr. Trump’s assurance that the West Asian kingdom and Russia, major oil producers, would soon announce a production cut sent prices up again. Earlier this year, Saudi Arabia and Russia had fallen out on agreements to cut production which would have kept oil prices up. What has helped oil prices swing wildly both ways? Brent crude had tanked about 50% over the month of March and was trading in the region of $26 per barrel till Thursday. Prices jumped, and crude now trading at about $33 per barrel, after the U.S. President’s tweet that a production cut could be ‘as high as 15 million barrels’ per day. To set that in context, when talks on production fizzled out earlier, Saudi Arabia said it would raise its production from 9.8 million barrels per day (bpd) to 12.3 million bpd. Why does it matter to the U.S. how much oil its competitors produce? Profits that companies make in selling oil depend directly on the cost of extraction, which is influenced by factors such as the terrain where the oil field is located. There is still a staggering quantity of oil in the world left to be extracted but the cost of extraction is increasing. For example, fracking, which helps extract oil from rocks, and which is a significant source for U.S. extraction firms, does not come cheap. So, a spike in production by Saudi Arabia and Russia typically drives down oil prices, following the traditional concepts of supply and demand. Beyond a certain point, U.S. producers may not be able to withstand declining oil prices, considering their costs. A January 2020 Haynes and Boone’s Oil Patch Bankruptcy Monitor report said that since 2015, when oil prices began to drop save for a few spikes in between, 208 North American producers have filed for bankruptcy involving $121.7 billion in aggregate debt. But now, if Saudi Arabia and Russia too are considering a production cut to help bring prices back up again, it is a signal that oil prices have gone too low for even these producers to profit from. Significantly, neither of these oil producers has publicly committed to production cuts. How has COVID-19 influenced prices? With the virus which originated from Wuhan in China in late 2019 bringing global economic activity to a near-complete halt, demand for fuel is bound to have dropped significantly. This would have had a dampening effect on oil prices. After all, if you do not move out for work or entertainment but only occasionally for grocery shopping, how much fuel would you burn over the period of the lockdown? Even before the virus-induced lockdown, India’s consumption of petrol by volume grew a marginal 2% in February 2020, over April 2019 and diesel consumption fell by 2.2% in the same period. What is happening to Indian oil prices? The country’s oil bill may have fallen in the recent past and could remain low if Saudi Arabia and Russia do not behave as the U.S. President expects them to, but Indian end-customers may not benefit. Indian prices of petrol and diesel have remained steady. Between March 2014 and April 2020, the price per barrel of the Indian crude basket fell from $107 to $21. The average retail selling price of petrol in Delhi has fallen by Rs. 1.82 from March 2014, to Rs. 69.59 per litre in February 2020. Of this amount, the portion that goes to the Centre in the form of duties has more than doubled from Rs. 10.38 to about Rs. 23. In March, the Central government reacted to declining international oil prices by raising excise duties by about Rs. 3 per litre on fuel sold in India, such that the end user saw little or no change in the retail price. This was only the latest in a series duty increases over the past few years. Why the excise duty hike? Even before the virus-induced lockdown paralysed the economy, the government had been battling a fiscal deficit problem. The nearly four-year-old Goods and Services Tax has not immediately yielded robust collections; consumer demand has fallen and there have been calls to put more money in the hands of the consumer, fuelling expectation of a tax cut. The Centre could not afford a blanket cut in income tax rates but it did offer taxpayers the option of moving to a lower tax slab without deductions or rebates. With international oil prices declining, the government has used the opportunity to keep end-user fuel prices stable while increasing its own prospects for collection. With consumer inflation being largely influenced by poorer supply of specific food items, and not necessarily by rising fuel prices, the government has chosen to keep Indian end-user fuel prices stable with higher taxes to augment its otherwise-emaciated kitty. Before the COVID-19 lockdown was announced on March 24, there were reports that the most recent duty hike would give the Centre Rs. 43,000 crore for the fiscal year 2020-21.  With international oil prices declining, the Central government has used the opportunity to keep end-user fuel prices stable while increasing its own prospects for collection by hiking excise duties||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bounty-from-oil-plunge/article31260743.ece
