06 July 2020||New Delhi,||China doubles down on claims on eastern Bhutan boundary||Days after Bhutan sent China a demarche protesting against Chinese claims to the Sakteng wildlife sanctuary in eastern Bhutan, Beijing has doubled down, including Bhutan’s “eastern sectors” to the boundary dispute between the two countries for the first time. “The boundary between China and Bhutan has never been delimited. There have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sectors for a long time,” said the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a statement to the media in Beijing. The MFA was responding to questions about China’s attempt last month to stop funding for the Sakteng sanctuary from the UN Development Program’s Global Environment Facility (GEF), on the grounds that it was “disputed” territory. According to written records, there has been no mention of eastern Bhutan, or Trashigang Dzongkhag (district), where Sakteng is based, that borders Arunachal Pradesh, in 24 previous rounds of boundary negotiations held between the two countries, between 1984 and 2016. So far, the talks have been about three specific areas, including Jakarlung and Pasamlung in the north, and the Chumbi Valley, where Doklam is situated, in west Bhutan. The negotiations have not been held since the Doklam stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in 2017. In July 2018, Chinese Vice-Foreign Minister Kong Xuanyou visited Bhutan and met with the Bhutanese King, Prime Minister and other officials, but the 25th round of talks has not yet taken place. Sources said the talks could not be held in 2019 due to scheduling difficulties, and the coronavirus pandemic has delayed them further this year. The Bhutanese government and its Embassy in Delhi declined to comment on the issue.  Discreet silence Bhutan has always maintained a discreet silence on its boundary negotiations with China, and it does not have any formal diplomatic relations with Beijing. The Ministry of External Affairs too declined to comment.  The Hindu has learnt that Bhutan had issued a demarche to the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi last month, protesting against the Chinese statement at the Global Environmental Facility meeting that decides on global grants for various projects. The Sakteng sanctuary has in the past, too, received such grants, including in 2018-2019 for a project on preventing soil erosion, without any objection from China. “Bhutan has sent a strong message to China,” said one source, adding that Bhutan’s response was also given through the GEF council meeting where China had raised the issue. At the time, Bhutan had assumed that since the Chinese representative was not a Foreign Ministry official, but a Deputy Director General (DDG) in the Chinese Financial and Monetary Cooperation Division, that the decision to stop the grant, which failed, was not thought through.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-doubles-down-on-claims-on-eastern-bhutan-boundary/article31997939.ece
06 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. criminal’s aide caught, says police gave them info||A key aide of Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur last week, said the wanted criminal had received information about the police raid through a phone call from the local police station. Daya Shankar Agnihotri was arrested by the police after an alleged encounter in Kalyanpur area of Kanpur early on Sunday, the police said. Agnihotri, who was shot in the leg during the encounter, was among the men who ambushed the police team on the intervening night of June 2 and 3, the police said. A bounty of Rs. 1 lakh has been announced for Dubey and Rs. 25,000 each for the 18 other identified accused persons who are on the run. Two accused, relatives of Dubey, were killed in an alleged encounter hours after the incident. Talking to media after his arrest, Agnihotri said Dubey had received information about the incoming police team through a call from the local police staion. Dubey then made phone calls to his other associates who reached his house with weapons, said Agnihotri. Though he claimed he did not remember how many people attacked the police team, Agnihotri said there were between 25 and 30 men. Agnihotri’s claim came a day after the SHO of Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari was suspended amid allegations that he played a role in tipping off the assailants. Tiwari was part of the police team that had gone to arrest Dubey. IG Kanpur Mohit Agarwal said every staff member and personnel of the Chaubeypur police station was under the scanner. Mr. Agarwal stressed that any policeman found involved in the case would be charged with murder and dismissed from service. Six illegal country-made pistols, 15 bombs, 25 cartridges and bomb-making material were recovered from Dubey’s house during a search, said the police. Kanpur Rural SP B.K. Srivastava said as per the cache of ammunition found in his residence, Dubey operated in the “mode of a Naxal,” and added that he had managed to get several weapon licences issued in the name of his associates. Mr. Agarwal said Agnihotri was Dubey’s “right-hand man” who had been living with him for the past 25 years. As police raid possible hideouts of Dubey, an abandoned car was found in neighbouring district Auraiya and three others in Kanpur district. Police said they were probing if the vehicles were used by Dubey and his men to escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-criminals-aide-caught-says-police-gave-them-info/article31997933.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS records 1,590 COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 23,902 on Sunday as 1,590 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Seven patients succumbed to the disease. The new cases include 1,277 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 125 from Medchal, and 82 from Rangareddy. Of the total 23,902 cases, 10,904 are active cases, 12,703 were discharged and 295 died. According to data on age-wise distribution of the 23,902 cases, a little over 84% were recorded among people of age 13 to 60 years, 10.9% among people above 60 years, and the remaining 4.9% among children of 0 to 12 years. The data was mentioned in the daily medical bulletin issued by State Health department. Senior officials from the State Health department have been urging youngsters to wear masks and maintain physical distance while speaking to elderly family members or those with compromised immunity, even at home. When distribution of cases according to sex is considered, 15,559 affected are among males and 8,343 among females. The Test Positivity Rate for coronavirus in Telangana continues to increase as 20.63% of positivity rate was reported till July 5. A total of 1,15,835 tests were conducted and 23,902 samples were positive for the virus. When compared to other States TS recorded 20.1%, the highest in our country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-records-1590-covid-cases/article31998217.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students in limbo as UGC yet to decide on final year exams||Eleven days after the Centre asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to review its guidelines on final year university examinations, there is still no clarity for many anxious students across the country. At least seven States have cancelled their college and university examinations — Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal — without waiting for the UGC’s fresh guidelines. However, some private universities will continue to conduct online examinations in these States. Gujarat cites MHRD Gujarat Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama told mediapersons that the Union Human Resource Development Ministry had sent a communication to all States asking them to postpone all exams till further notice, and the State has done so. The HRD Ministry did not respond to requests for confirmation on this. Karnataka’s Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwathnarayan said the State is waiting for instructions from the HRD Ministry and the UGC. “After we receive some instructions from them, the state government will make a decision,” he told The Hindu . Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, has set up its own panel to recommend a decision. For Central universities, the UGC decision is still awaited, with Delhi University students scheduled to begin online open book examinations in a week’s time, despite multiple difficulties with mock tests. With COVID-19 cases increasing at the rate of more than 22,000 per day, some students have stepped up a campaign — through letters, social media, and court cases — to cancel examinations and grant degrees on the basis of their performance in internal assessments and previous semester examinations. The hashtag #NoMoreWaitUGC was trending on Sunday with almost 40,000 tweets. “Students, parents & teachers are not ready to risk lives during COVID-19,” tweeted an Andhra Pradesh student’s group, using hastag #StudentsLives Matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-in-limbo-as-ugc-yet-to-decide-on-final-year-exams/article31997935.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 225 new cases||Kerala reported 225 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, the cumulative case burden in the State reaching 5,429. Of the new cases, 51 are cases of local transmission, while the rest 174 are imported ones. Many districts are reporting an increase in cases of local transmission, with the authorities unable to link many of these cases to a particular source of infection. Local transmission of COVID-19 is rampant in Thiruvananthapuram with 22 out of the 27 new cases reported on Sunday contracting the disease from the locality. Of the 22 cases, 14 have no epidemiological link. The 51 cases of local transmission in the State also include cases diagnosed in seven Defence Security Corps and two CISF jawans in Kannur, two BSF jawans in Thrissur, and two ship crew. The State reported 126 recoveries on Sunday. The number of active cases now is 2,228. The total number of recoveries in the State so far is 3,174. The total number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 7,461.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-225-new-cases/article31998287.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Vaccine trials take 6 to 9 months: WHO Chief Scientist||Days after the Indian Council of Medical Research issued a letter calling for fast-tracking the trial process of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine, Chief Scientist at the World Health Organisation Soumya Swaminathan said a vaccine trial usually takes at least six months to complete. “A realistic (but very optimistic) timeline from the start of Phase-1 to the completion of Phase-3 [trials] could be about six to nine months (if all goes exactly according to plan),” Dr. Swaminathan told The Hindu , responding to questions via email .   On the specific question of whether Phase-3 trials can be skipped for making the vaccine available for public use in light of the pandemic, Dr. Swaminathan said: “Any vaccine must demonstrate efficacy and safety on a sizeable number of participants. The WHO has published target product profiles for a COVID vaccine [and] immunogenicity data alone would be insufficient for a vaccine use policy. It is possible to have protocols which flow seamlessly from Phase-2 to Phase-3 based on interim analysis of data.” After scientists and experts raised serious concerns over the ICMR’s communication, the nodal agency issued a clarification saying the letter was meant only to “cut unnecessary red tape” and “speed up recruitment of participants”. Experts globally have been saying it would take at least 12 to 18 months to launch a vaccine for COVID-19. Bharat Biotech has got an approval to conduct only the Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-trials-take-6-to-9-months-who-chief-scientist/article31997937.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees biggest single-day spike of 998 cases||Fourteen COVID-19 patients died and 998 new cases were reported in the State during the past 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The number of fatalities and new cases is the highest reported in a single day so far. The number of samples tested so far too has crossed the 10-lakh mark. With the new cases, the tally went up to 18,697 and the toll increased to 232, the bulletin issued by the Health Department said. Recovery rate Most of the deaths in the last 24 hours occurred in Kurnool (5) and Anantapur (3). Chittoor and Kadapa districts reported two deaths each and Krishna and Visakhapatnam one each. Having witnessed over 14,000 cases in the last month, the State now has over 10,000 active patients undergoing treatment at various COVID hospitals, COVID Care Centres and in home isolation. During the last 24 hours, 414 recovered, taking the total recoveries to 8,422 and the active cases to 10,043. The recovery rate is 45.04. The district-wise tally of new cases was as follows: Guntur 157; East Godavari 118; Kurnool 97; Srikakulam (which doubled its tally in single day) 96; Visakhpatnam 88; Anantapur 87; Chittoor 74; Krishna 62; Kadapa 52; Nellore 45; West Godavari 40; Prakasam 27; and Vizianagaram 18. The bulletin further said that 36 cases pertained to people from other States and one was a foreign returnee. The district-wise tally of local cases was as follows: Kurnool 2,451; Anantapur 2,186; Guntur 1,827; Krishna 1,743; East Godavari 1,607; Chittoor 1,324; Kadapa 1,245; West Godavari 1,164; Nellore 730; Visakhapatnam 721; Prakasam 700; Vizianagaram 215; and Srikakulam 189. Cases of people from other States 2,179 and foreign returnees 416.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-998-cases/article31997930.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||4 districts emerge from total lockdown today||Chennai and its three neighbouring districts — Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu — will emerge from a 17-day intensive lockdown on Monday with the easing of curbs. However, certain relaxations announced earlier, such as allowing restaurants to operate at 50% capacity, have been reversed in Chennai. According to the government, the intensive lockdown was necessitated by the rising COVID-19 cases in the city and its surrounding regions. It was expected that the shutdown would give healthcare systems a respite and facilitate the tracing of the contacts of COVID-19-positive persons. Officials said the lockdown had provided much-needed breathing space for ramping up healthcare facilities for treating patients. Autorickshaws, cycle-rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators like Ola and Uber can resume operations in the city from Monday. IT/ITeS companies, private offices, industrial establishments and export-oriented units in Chennai are allowed to function with 50% staff strength, though for IT/ITeS companies, the upper limit on staffing has been fixed at 80 employees.    “IT companies have informed us that their productivity has actually increased during the lockdown, when their employees have been working from home. Even under the earlier lockdowns, many firms were staffing only some key operations on the technical side to ensure that their businesses did not suffer any technological disruptions,” a senior State government official told The Hindu . In Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, small temples in rural areas and small mosques, dargahs and churches will be allowed to reopen for public worship. IT/ITeS firms have been permitted to operate at 100% capacity, but 20% of the staff have been advised to work from home. Private companies can operate with 100% employee strength. The official said many industries had been functioning with enough operational capacity, and this was likely to continue, though some industries were facing issues with labour shortage. Vegetable and provision shops can stay open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., as they used to before the intensive lockdown, when they were allowed to function till 2 p.m. only. Restaurants in Chennai can only offer takeaway services. In Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu, however, they are allowed to operate with 50% dine-in capacity. From July 6, those already in possession of an e-pass that was valid till June 19 for travel between districts can continue to use it. However, those who need to travel between districts and do not have an e-pass must apply for one, and travel only after the pass is issued. With Chennai seeing a decline in cases in the last couple of days, authorities say the lockdown has served its key purpose — identifying symptomatic cases, providing treatment to those who have tested positive, and identifying and isolating contacts of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-districts-emerge-from-total-lockdown-today/article31998041.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||Former Cong. MLA dies of COVID in Mandoli jail||A former Congress MLA serving a 10-year jail term in an anti-Sikh riots case died due to COVID-19 at a hospital here, the second inmate of Mandoli prison to have succumbed to the infection, officials said on Sunday. Mahender Yadav, 70, was lodged in jail number 14, the same barrack where Kanwar Singh, another convict who died last month of COVID-19, was kept. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said that Yadav complained of uneasiness and heart-related issues on June 26. He was taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, from where he was referred to Lok Nayak Hospital the same day. Later, on his family’s request, he was shifted under police guard to a private hospital in Dwarka on June 30. “We received information that Mahender Yadav expired in Akash hospital on July 4,” said Mr. Goel. Yadav was lodged in jail since December 31, 2018. His son and Delhi Congress leader Raghuvindra Yadav alleged that the jail authorities did not take care of his father and did not inform the family about his admission to hospital. The jail authorities, however, said they had informed Yadav’s family over the phone on June 26 evening, when he was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-cong-mla-dies-of-covid-in-mandoli-jail/article31998155.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,||1,925 new cases, 37 deaths in State||As many as 1,925 new COVID-19 cases and 37 deaths were reported in the State on Sunday. The number of positive cases on Sunday is the highest reported in one day. With this, the total number of cases stands at 23,474 and COVID-19 deaths at 372. As many as 64 % of the total 1,925 positive cases reported in the State on Sunday were from Bengaluru Urban. Out of the 37 deaths, 16 are from Bengaluru Urban and 10 from Bidar. The media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that two deaths each had been reported in Belagavi and Kalaburagi. Davangere, Chickballapur, Hassan, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Davangere, and Dharwad recorded one death each. According to the bulletin, six asymptomatic people are also among the 37 who died of COVID-19. As many as 24 out of the 37 who died had Influenza Like Illnesses or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. A total of 603 patients were discharged on Sunday. With this, the State’s recovery rate stands at 41.94 per cent. The recovery rate has slipped in the last couple of days as there has been a huge spike in the number of positive cases reported in the State. Of the total 13,251 active cases in the State, 243 of them are admitted in intensive care units in designated hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1925-new-cases-37-deaths-in-state/article31997988.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature’s fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/natures-fury/article31997926.ece
06 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Four Maoists killed in Odisha’s Kandhamal||The Odisha police scored a major success in their anti-Naxal operations when four CPI (Maoist) cadres were gunned down in Kandhamal district on Sunday. On a tip-off, personnel of the Special Operation Group (SOG), an anti-Naxal force, and the District Voluntary Force (DVF), a special constabulary unit of the State police, rushed to a forest area of the Sirla gram panchayat under the Tumudibandh police limits of Kandhamal early on Sunday. “There was an exchange of fire between Maoists and SOG and DVF near Tumudibandh. The security forces were fired upon and they retaliated in self defence. There were four casualties on Maoist side. Some of them were injured. Combing operations were going on in the area,” said Director-General of Police Abhay. The exchange of fire continued for hours before the Maoists fled the spot with their injured cadres. Among the four deceased, who belonged to Bansadhara-Ghumusura-Nagabali (BGN), two were women cadres. The police party recovered six sophisticated weapons from the spot along with improvised explosive devices. Among those seized include three self-loading rifles, one INSAS rifle and several rounds of magazines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-maoists-killed-in-odishas-kandhamal/article31997931.ece
06 July 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||West Bengal records 895 more cases, 21 deaths||Marking a fresh single-day high in the pandemic, West Bengal on Sunday recorded 895 new COVID-19 cases, and 21 deaths, taking total cases to 22,126 and the death toll to 757. Eight deaths were recorded in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas districts each, while Howrah accounted for two, and one each in South 24 Parganas, Malda and Jalpaiguri districts. North 24 Parganas has emerged as a new hotspot with 214 new cases. Experts said the case load is rising even though the number of tests conducted in the State remained steady at 11,000 per day. Samples tested per million stands at 6,012. Meanwhile, the State health department issued a fresh advisory for all hospitals in the State on Sunday urging that “indiscriminate use of antibiotics, particularly of higher generation, on admission, should be stopped”. The advisory also suggested that “super-speciality teams should be available, especially nephrology and pulmonology for appropriate advice in relevant cases”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-records-895-more-cases-21-deaths/article31998364.ece
06 July 2020||Mangaluru,||Man escapes from hospital||An 18-year-old man hailing from Puttur escaped from the Government Wenlock Hospital a few hours after he was found positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the Mangaluru South Police said. The police said that Devaraj (18), who lived in his grandmother’s house in the city, voluntarily came to the hospital after developing COVID-19 symptoms on July 1. On Sunday, he was found positive for COVID-19. At around 4 p.m., he escaped from the hospital. Those who find this man or have any information can call the police control room on Ph: 9480802300 or the Mangaluru South Police Station on Ph: 0824-2220530.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-escapes-from-hospital/article31998195.ece
06 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Nine more die of COVID-19 in Bidar||After reporting six COVID-19 deaths on Saturday, Bidar reported nine deaths on Sunday sending shock waves across the district. With the fresh deaths, COVID-19 toll in the district rose to 37. As per information provided by the district administration, all the nine people died on different days between June 24 and July 3, while their throat swab samples tested positive for the disease later. The new deaths included four elderly persons aged between 60 and 75 having co-morbidities — a 70-year-old man with hypertension, a 63-year-old man with diabetes, a 60-year-old woman with hypertension and diabetes and a 65-year-old man with hypertension. The youngest among the deceased was a 25-year-old woman having peripartum cardiomyopathy who got admitted to hospital on June 24 upon developing breathlessness and died on June 26. The other deceased persons were a 45-year-old man who died of a snake bite, a 54-year-old man with hypertension and diabetes, a 45-year old man and a 32-year-old woman. The district also recorded 20 new cases — 15 from Bidar taluk, four from Basavakalyan taluk and one from Bhalki taluk. Among the newly infected persons, four were aged above 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-more-die-of-covid-19-in-bidar/article31998193.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||4,150 new cases take tally to 1.11 lakh||As many as 4,150 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 1,11,151. It was a day when 2,186 patients were discharged from hospitals after treatment, bringing the total so far to 62,778.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4150-new-cases-take-tally-to-111-lakh/article31998038.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Positivity rate in Chennai stabilising: Health Secy.||The positivity rate in Chennai, which had been rising until recently, is gradually stabilising. But that does not mean people can drop their guard, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positivity-rate-in-chennai-stabilising-health-secy/article31998039.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Fuel outlets to insist on face masks||With the government relaxing lockdown norms in the State, fuel outlets have officially decided to sell fuel only to those wearing masks. “Over 90% of our customers comply with the rules,” said a dealer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fuel-outlets-to-insist-on-face-masks/article31998040.ece
06 July 2020||Srinagar,||Two slain militants test positive, say J&K police||The J&K police on Sunday said that two militants killed in the Kulgam encounter on Saturday were found to be infected with COVID-19 — the first such case since the police began taking samples from slain militants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-slain-militants-test-positive-say-jk-police/article31998153.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista project: DUAC member quits||The Centre’s proposal to construct a new Parliament building was approved by the Delhi Urban Art Commission last week. The same day a member of the panel put in her papers on “personal grounds”, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-vista-project-duac-member-quits/article31998154.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 2,244 fresh COVID-19 cases||The national capital reported 2,244 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 99,444, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. Also, 63 deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 3,067.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-2244-fresh-covid-19-cases/article31998152.ece
06 July 2020||BENGALURU,||Beds promised by pvt. hospitals yet to come||Urging private hospitals to cooperate with the State government in handling COVID-19, Minster K. Sudhakar on Sunday said that the government was yet to receive the full number of beds it had asked from private hospitals in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beds-promised-by-pvt-hospitals-yet-to-come/article31997989.ece
06 July 2020||BELAGAVI,||Vaccine trial to start in Belagavi hospital||Covaxin, the first possible vaccine against COVID-19, will be tested on a team of 200 healthy volunteers in and around Belagavi. The clinical trials will be conducted by doctors and staff members of Jeevan Rekha, a multi-speciality hospital here, monitored by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-trial-to-start-in-belagavi-hospital/article31997991.ece
06 July 2020||Mumbai,||Ten Mumbai DCPs' transfer orders scrapped||In an unprecedented move, the transfers of 10 Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) rank officers in Mumbai were cancelled on Sunday, barely three days after they were notified by the Mumbai Police Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ten-mumbai-dcps-transfer-orders-scrapped/article31998421.ece
06 July 2020||Pune,||State crosses 2.06 lakh with 6,555 new cases||The surge in new COVID-19 cases continued in Maharashtra with 6,555 new cases — the second-highest single-day surge till date — recorded on Sunday to take the tally to 2,06,619. Mumbai reported 1,287 cases, with 69 deaths taking the toll to 4,899. As many as 151 new deaths pushed the death toll to 8,822. Of the total tally, though, only 86,040 are active cases, said Health Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-crosses-206-lakh-with-6555-new-cases/article31998420.ece
06 July 2020||Pune,||‘Donate smartphones, laptops to poor students’||With online teaching the only way ahead for students in the backdrop of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Pune Zilla Parishad has appealed to citizens to donate old smartphones and used laptops to help poor students continue with e-classes during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/donate-smartphones-laptops-to-poor-students/article31998422.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Morale of armed forces very high: ITBP chief||The morale of the armed forces is “very high”, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ladakh last week and his address to troops “have raised the morale of all the forces at the border”, Director-General, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), S.S. Deswal, said on Sunday. “The complete national leadership, political leadership and the forces and jawans… they are dedicated to the nation. They are dedicated to border security and the morale of all forces, be it the Indian Army, Air Force or ITBP, is very high,” Mr. Deswal told presspersons on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate a 10,000-bed COVID care centre. The facility, which will be operated by the ITBP as the nodal agency, was inaugurated by Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal. Mr. Deswal stated that personnel of the armed forces had sacrificed their lives in the line of duty in the past and they were ready to do so in the future as well. The ITBP, which is tasked with guarding the LAC along with the Army, has inducted an additional 30 companies — around 3,000 personnel — to augment numbers during the ongoing standoff at several locations in eastern Ladakh. DRDO hospital Meanwhile, in the national capital, a 1,000-bed COVID hospital, which includes a 250-bed intensive care unit (ICU) designed and constructed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) with the Tata Trust, was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah. “Visited the 1,000 bed Sardar Patel COVID Hospital, which has 250 ICU beds, along with Rajnath Singh. DRDO built it in record time of 12 days with assistance from Home Ministry, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), armed forces and Tata Trust. Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) team will run it and DRDO will maintain,” Mr. Shah said on Twitter later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/morale-of-armed-forces-very-high-itbp-chief/article31997899.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Foodgrain offtake by States rises sharply||Relief measures being implemented in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic have paved the way for States and Union Territories in the country to draw more than double the quantity of rice for distribution during April to June this year, compared to the corresponding period last year. In the corresponding three months of 2019, the total amount of rice lifted by the States and Union Territories from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) under the Centre’s various schemes was 90.71 lakh tonnes. This year the figure was 192.34 lakh tonnes. Increased entitlement The reason is obvious. After the breakout of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Central government had announced that Priority Household (PHH) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cardholders in the country, regarded as the poor, would receive free additional entitlement of 5 kg per person per month, initially for three months (April to June) and now up to November. This was in addition to their entitlement under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The Centre also came up with a scheme for providing wheat and rice to ration cardholders not covered under the NFSA or non-priority household (NPHH) cardholders at the rate of Rs. 21 per kg and Rs. 22 per kg respectively. This has been used by Tamil Nadu to provide additional entitlement of rice to about 85.99 lakh such cardholders. Migrant labourers’ needs In addition, aimed at addressing the requirements of migrant labourers who were not covered under the NFSA or any scheme of the States, the Union government announced one more scheme — distribution of free food grains at 5 kg per person per month for May and June. The post-pandemic measures coupled with existing schemes have made a difference to the off-take position of rice. A perusal of FCI data reveals that seven States availed over 60% of the total quantity of rice during the three-month period. These are Uttar Pradesh (30.8 lakh tonnes), Bihar (20.94 lakh tonnes), West Bengal (14.04 lakh tonnes), Maharashtra (13.84 lakh tonnes), Andhra Pradesh (13.6 lakh tonnes), Tamil Nadu (13.5 lakh tonnes) and Karnataka (13.44 lakh tonnes). As for wheat, the rate of increase was not as high and stood at around 30%. Compared to 59.45 lakh tonnes lifted in the three months of 2019, the amount this year was 78.16 lakh tonnes. Rajasthan had drawn the highest quantity of 14.84 lakh tonnes of wheat followed by Uttar Pradesh (14.01 laksh tonnes).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foodgrain-offtake-by-states-rises-sharply/article31997924.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||6 of 37 Karnataka fatalities were asymptomatic||Kerala reported 225 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, and the cumulative case burden of the State was 5,429. Of the new cases, 51 were due to local transmission, while 174 were imported. Many districts reported an increase in local transmission and the authorities could not link many of these to a particular source. The situation was acute in Thiruvananthapuram district, where the government declared a triple lockdown. In Thiruvananthapuram 22 of 27 cases reported on Sunday were acquired by people from the community. Of the 22, there was no epidemiological link for 14. Disease transmission was steadily on the rise in the urban areas as well as the coastal areas in the capital. A similar situation existed in urban Ernakulam. The 51 cases of local transmission also included those of seven Defence Security Corps and two CISF jawans in Kannur, two BSF jawans in Thrissur, and two ship crew. As many as 1,925 new COVID-19 cases and 37 deaths were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. The positive cases were the highest for a single day. With this, the case total for the State stood at 23,474 and COVID-19 deaths at 372. As many as 64% of the total 1,925 positive cases were from Bengaluru Urban. Of the 37 deaths, 16 were from Bengaluru Urban, and 10 from Bidar. The Department of Health and Family Welfare said two deaths each were reported in Belagavi and Kalaburagi. Davangere, Chikkaballapura, Hassan, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Davangere and Dharwad reported one death each. The bulletin said six asymptomatic people were among the 37 who succumbed to COVID-19. A total of 603 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of 13,251 active cases, 243 were in intensive care. Fourteen patients died and 998 cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. Fatalities and new cases were the highest in a single day. The tally rose to 18,697 and toll to 232, the Health Department said. Most new deaths were in Kurnool (5) and Anantapur (3). Chittoor and Kadapa districts had two deaths each and Krishna and Visakhapatnam one each. The State had over 10,000 active patients. During the last 24 hours, 414 recovered, taking total recoveries to 8,422 and active cases to 10,043. The new cases were in : Guntur 157; East Godavari 118; Kurnool 97; Srikakulam (which doubled its tally in single day) 96; Visakhpatnam 88; Anantapur 87; Chittoor 74; Krishna 62; Kadapa 52; Nellore 45; West Godavari 40; Prakasam 27; and Vizianagaram 18.  Chennai records 1,713 new cases On Sunday, 4,150 new patients were added to the number of persons who tested positive in the state for COVID-19, taking the total positive cases to 1,11,151. The total number of deaths due to the infection rose to 1510 as 60 more deaths were recorded on Sunday.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-of-37-karnataka-fatalities-were-asymptomatic/article31997890.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||The Beijing-Islamabad equation of the 1960s||Two conversations that Communist Party Chairman Mao Zedong and Premier Zhou Enlai had in the 1960s with their Pakistani interlocutors reveal the nature of close consultations between Islamabad and Beijing when it came to India. In comments to a visiting Pakistani Minister, Mao was quoted as saying, “I once said to the former Indian Ambassador [to China], the younger [R.K.] Nehru, that our main enemy is the United States. You are not our enemy. Later, I ordered that Chinese soldiers are not allowed to shoot at the Indian Army. A Chinese soldier ran to India and told them about it. They thought we would never shoot. They are [were] very happy and went to our rear areas to walk around. We changed our plan. We increased our strength to three-and-a-half divisions, hit them, and then retreated. They weren’t expecting that.” R.K. Nehru was India’s Ambassador to China from November 1955 to July 1958. Mao also reveals what it means for a country to be “rich” in his strategic view: “The main thing is that if you can get rich, you will be fine. You will be able to boycott the United States, Britain and India, and you will be fine. You will need to make weapons. Can you make them? Start by repairing them and move up to building them yourself later.” The Chinese leader also asks Pakistani Commerce Minister Wahid Zaman in July 1964 why Pakistan did not fear the Communist Party but the “capitalists” and then proceeds to answer his own question. The conversation is available in the Wilson Center’s Digital Archive. “I think this is because we have no conflicts of interest and no border disputes. We don’t want to encroach on your land. You don’t want our Tibet or Xinjiang either. Neither of us wants to exploit and oppress. We are equal and as equals we can be friends,” Mao tells Zaman. “We had good relations with India for several years. Then when we took Tibet back, India got annoyed... India not only infringed on 90,000 square kilometres of Chinese territory but they want all of Tibet as well…The Indian people are good, but capitalists like [Jawaharlal] Nehru are not good,” Mao added. Zhou on Kashmir Mao’s conversation with Zaman and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai’s talks with Bangla peasant leader Maulana Bhashani in November 1963 also shows the depth of discussion between Pakistan and China on Kashmir and other issues. Zhou takes great pains to emphasise why in public China advocates the route of bilateral talks between India and Pakistan to settle the Kashmir dispute. “If we were to say that we support self-determination for the people of Kashmir, India would simply suggest self-determination for the people of the Aksai Chin region in Xinjiang; following that, it would raise the issue for Tibet. These are both our territory, why should they have self-determination,” he says. In Zhou’s view, India wanted to occupy the Aksai Chin region — namely, “their so-called Ladakh”. The Chinese Premier said that while Pakistan wanted China to support the right of self-determination of the Kashmiris “but in fact our actions already go beyond this”, a transcript of the November 1963 conversation, also available in the Wilson Center Digital Archive, stated. “We have settled the Sino-Pakistani border question with you; the people of the world understand this, and it indicates that we acknowledge that this region belongs to you. Even though there remains something left unsaid, this is only because of the stipulations of international law – [Pakistani] Ambassador [Agha Mohamed] Raza knows this; but we will talk again after the sovereignty jurisdiction issue has been settled,” Zhou added. “Our concrete actions offer benefit than abstract statements…In fact, the right to national self-determination is stipulated explicitly in the United Nations Charter and the UN has also adopted a resolution of abstract principles. We have consistently supported these abstract principles of national self-determination, but settling these issues requires relying on concrete measures. Therefore, the two of us opposing India’s aggression together is most concrete and effective,” Zhou added. Both Mao and Zhou’s comments suggest that the top Chinese leadership was far from averse to sending false signals to India or saying something in public to safeguard their national positions — like on Kashmir. As these two candid conversations reveal, India — yesterday and today — is dealing with a formidable adversary, which can set abstract principles in opposition to concrete measures, and whose foreign policy is guided by domestic compulsions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-beijing-islamabad-equation-of-the-1960s/article31997895.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||A year since exit, Rahul still steers Congress||A year after Rahul Gandhi formally resigned as Congress president on July 3, 2019, holding himself responsible for the party’s Lok Sabha election debacle, he continues to shape the party’s response on most issues. From brainstorming at a recent virtual meeting to discussing the upcoming Bihar Assembly election and from leading the party’s attack on the Modi government over the India-China face-off, COVID-19 management and the rising fuel prices, Mr. Gandhi is leading the charge, even as his mother Sonia Gandhi continues as the party’s interim president. “I think COVID-19 has put a pause to our leadership issue. We are a big national party and are conscious of the fact that we should have a full-time party president and formalise the process as early as possible. I think madam Sonia Gandhi is also contemplating about it,” Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told The Hindu on Sunday. Last Friday, virtually addressing party colleagues on the Bihar election, Mr. Gandhi committed himself to “spending as much time as the party wants”, and advised on how to go about the tricky issue of alliances. Constant attacks Almost on a daily basis, the former Congress chief has been attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the India-China face-off, especially over Mr. Modi’s statement during the June 19 all-party meet that “none had occupied Indian land or any Indian post”. Though the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) clarified that Mr. Modi’s speech only referred to the area where the clashes took place, the Congress leader continued to attack him personally. Since June 15, when the Galwan clashes between the Indian and Chinese troops took place, Mr. Gandhi has targeted the Prime Minister 19 times, either on Twitter or in video messages. Accusing Mr. Modi of “surrendering” before the Chinese, on June 21, he tweeted, “Narendra Modi Is actually Surender Modi’. “Ladakhis say: China took our land. PM says: Nobody took our land. Obviously, someone is lying,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted when Mr. Modi was on a visit to Ladakh. The former Congress chief has also been very active in sharing his views on the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. He started a series of virtual dialogues with experts from different fields on how to handle the pandemic, including Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee, economist Raghuram Rajan, industrialist Rajiv Bajaj among others, and became a part of the Congress’ internal group on COVID-19 that is headed by former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh. No response Since the March 25 nationwide lockdown, Mr. Gandhi held at least three press conferences to highlight the different aspects of the Modi government’s handling of the pandemic. Yet, when a journalist asked him at a virtual press conference on May 8 that whether he was ready to take over the party’s reins again, Mr. Gandhi replied, “Please see my letter from a year ago.” The leadership question Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, backed by other colleagues, again raised the issue on June 23 at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee, but Mr. Gandhi kept quiet. However, another leader, known to be close to Mr. Gandhi, said the party did not have any other option as “Mr. Gandhi is the most acceptable leader to the workers after his mother”. The delay in settling the leadership question, however, could also be deliberate, as a powerful section, including MPs, is not eager at Mr. Gandhi’s return and the party may not risk open dissidence now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-year-since-exit-rahul-still-steers-congress/article31997906.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Streets deserted on Sunday lockdown||The streets were deserted and traffic was non-existent in the State as the Sunday lockdown came into force again. In Bengaluru, the police had closed all flyovers and had put up barricades on all major roads, disrupting any travel plans. Except a few autorickshaws at Majestic, all forms of public transport were off the road. Sunday began with violations of the lockdown, but there was almost complete compliance within a few hours. Despite the lockdown beginning from 8 p.m. on Saturday, the city saw morning walkers take to the streets on Sunday, even though all parks were closed. The police were seen talking to them and sending them home. Those not wearing masks and maintaining social distance were penalised. Small gatherings were also seen at meat shops, a Sunday morning ritual, where the police enforced queues with social distancing. The police shut down the meat shops by mid-morning in most areas. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa remained at his official residence Cauvery, spent time with his family and had no official meetings on Sunday. Only pharmacies and grocery stores were open. While all places of worship remained closed, police officials said people turned up at Sai Baba temples across the city on the occasion of Guru Poornima and were seen offering prayers from the streets, despite the temples being closed. As hotels remained open for takeaways, food delivery personnel worked through the day. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said e-commerce and food delivery partners were the most overworked since the breakout of the pandemic and potentially exposed. “The city needs to think of them too. The boys work hard and they need a day’s rest too. They should also be safe,” he said. Mr. Rao said the Sunday lockdown would continue for the next few weeks and appealed to the people to make it a people-driveninitiative rather than an event of police enforcement. “People have cooperated with us for the lockdown for most parts. But we have had a barrage of requests made for permissions and exceptions, including for non-emergency purposes that can easily be postponed by a day. The lockdown is for our collective good and we must stay home, not made to stay indoors,” he said, hoping such requests come down over the next few Sundays when the lockdown will be in force. The Sunday lockdown in Mysuru city and rural was near total. Similar reports have come from neighbouring Mandya, Kodagu, and Chamarajanagar districts as well. In Raichur district, more than 300 motorcycles were seized for violating lockdown rules, according Sri Hari Babu, Additional Superintendent of Police. In Belagavi district, MLA Mahesh Kumthalli held a meeting with traders’ association leaders at Athani to review the situation. He asked them to shut down the market voluntarily for a few days till the rising COVID-19 cases come under control. The Sunday lockdown received an overwhelming response from the people in Kalyana Karnataka region. In Dharwad, officers enforced a 36-hour curfew from Saturday evening. It was nearly total in the city and rural areas. Except essential services, the lockdown was total in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/streets-deserted-on-sunday-lockdown/article31997876.ece
06 July 2020||Patna,||Nitish to kick-start virtual poll campaign on August 7||With the Bihar Assembly election just months away, Chief Minister and ruling Janata Dal(U) president Nitish Kumar is all ready to kick-start his party’s poll campaign by addressing a virtual rally on August 7. The election is due in October-November. JD(U) leaders said over 10 lakh people, including party workers and leaders, would be connected through social media to Mr. Kumar’s rally. The party has also constituted four teams headed to hold virtualsammelans(conferences) in all 243 Assembly constituencies from July 18 to 31. Each team is supposed to address at least six virtual conferences every day. “We’ll also hold virtual State-level meetings of party’s senior leaders and office bearers at district and regional level on July 16 addressed by senior party leader RCP Singh”, said a senior JD(U) leader. Besides, the JD(U) has also scheduled a series of virtual meetings of its different cells from July 7 to July 15. The student’s wing of the party has already announced to hold ‘Tuesday Talk’ every Tuesday to connect with the members and leaders. Alliance problems The buzz in State’s political corridor is that ahead of the polls, the Lok Janshakti Party may come out of the NDA alliance to join the Congress, and that the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) partner Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) could be a part of the NDA. LJP president Chirag Paswan is said to be sulking over his sour relations with Mr. Kumar, while the HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has publicly expressed his displeasure against the principal mahagathbandhan party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal. “If Chirag Paswan wants to come along with us, we’re open to have all like-minded people with us…,” said senior State Congress leader and party MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. Even during a recent virtual meeting of Bihar Congress leaders with Rahul Gandhi, a senior State leader is said to have briefed Mr. Gandhi about Mr. Chirag Paswan being unhappy with the NDA alliance. Similarly, the talk is that both the BJP and JD(U) leaders are mulling ways to welcome the HAM(S) into the NDA fold to compensate the possible loss of dalit vote after LJP’s exit from the block. “Being party president, Mr. Manjhi is free to take his next political move in the larger interest of the party’s future”, said HAM(S) leader and spokesperson Danish Rizwan. Earlier, Mr. Manjhi had given a deadline to mahagathbandhan parties to form a coordination committee by July 2 to take a decision on seat-sharing adjustments but his ultimatum was not taken on a “serious note”, said the party leader.  Another mahagathbandhan partner, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, too, is said to be unhappy with the “way things are moving among grand alliance partners”. Party leader Upendra Kushwaha, sources said, was in touch with Congress leaders mulling over his party’s future move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-to-kick-start-virtual-poll-campaign-on-august-7/article31997892.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Issue compulsory licences for generic Remdesivir: CPI(M)||The Polit Bureau of the CPI(M) on Sunday said the government should issue compulsory licences for the manufacture of a generic version of remdesivir, an anti-viral drug being used to treat COVID-19 patients. In a statement, it said the government should invoke Clause 92 of the Patent Act that allows it to issue compulsory licences so that Indian manufacturers can produce a more affordable generic version. “Gilead Sciences’ anti-viral drug Remdesivir has shown efficacy in treating COVID-19 patients. Media reports indicate that the U.S., which is hoarding all drugs found to be useful in combating the pandemic, has bought the entire stock of Remdesivir from Gilead for the next three months. It will therefore not be available for the rest of the world,” the statement said. The statement said while the price of the drug was Rs. 2.25 lakh or $3,000 in the U.S., Indian companies were in talks for manufacturing under a Gilead’s licence for sale at Rs. 30,000-Rs. 35,000. Patent monopoly “The cost of manufacturing Remdesivir for a full course — as worked out by experts — is less than $10 or Rs. 750 in the U.S. And about Rs. 100 in India. Gilead, by virtue of its patent monopoly, is holding the world to ransom by asking a price that is hundreds of times its cost,” it said. The statement said while the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had sped up the approval process for using Remdesivir, with the U.S. buying up the stocks and the high cost, “Indian patients will either not get the drug, or if it is available, find the cost prohibitive”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/issue-compulsory-licences-for-generic-remdesivir-cpim/article31997915.ece
06 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||NSCN (IM) reduces its ‘tax’ rate to 3%||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland or the NSCN (IM) has reduced its ‘tax’ rate in view of the “prevailing COVID-19 pandemic crisis”. The outfit calls itself the National Socialist Council of Nagalim to differentiate from other factions. The economic crisis induced by the lockdown is the stated objective of the NSCN (IM) for reducing the rate of “tax payable” to its government of the People’s Republic of Nagalim from 5% to 3%. But the decision follows the controversy over Governor R.N. Ravi’s June 16 letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio complaining about extortionist “armed groups” running the show in the State. The NSCN (IM) did not specify the periodicity of the “payable tax” but the outfit is known to levy 25% ‘tax’ on a month’s income, payable once a year, of every salaried employee in the government or private sector. The group also levies several other ‘taxes’. The NSCN (IM) is not the only organisation that levies such ‘taxes’. Reacting to the Governor’s letter, almost all the organisations justified their ‘taxes’ and said it goes to running the administration of their legitimate governments. A resistance has been building up in Nagaland against multiple ‘taxes’. The Against Corruption and Unabated Taxations, an organisation formed in 2017, has been asking all the extremist groups to come together so that the people get some relief by paying “one tax to one government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscn-im-reduces-its-tax-rate-to-3/article31997902.ece
06 July 2020||Srinagar,||Amarnath Yatra to skip traditional route||The J&K administration on Sunday performed the rituals to start the annual Amarnath pilgrimage, where only 500 pilgrims will be allowed to trek to the holy shrine from the Baltal area of central Kashmir. Due to the pandemic, the pilgrimage is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 only from the Baltal track and not the traditional route of Pahalgam in south Kashmir. Only 500 pilgrims will be allowed a day by road from Jammu, an official said. Lieutenant-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, accompanied by officials, on Sunday performed the “Pratham Aarti” at the holy Amarnath cave. It was telecast live by Prasar Bharti. Mr. Murmu is also the chairman of the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB), the body regulating the pilgrimage. “The pilgrimage will be telecast live by Prasar Bharti till the culmination of the yatra on August 3,” an official said. The Amarnath yatra is the first religious event allowed in J&K since the pandemic broke. However, in the wake of the growing number of COVID-19 cases in J&K, no other religious event will be allowed in the Union Territory (UT). Nine out of 10 Kashmir districts are designated as red zones. Under the Disaster Management Act, the J&K administration has laid down the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the pilgrims and prescribed RT PCR test for all the persons travelling to J&K. “All entrants into J&K will have to be sampled, tested and quarantined till they are reported to be negative,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarnath-yatra-to-skip-traditional-route/article31997920.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Private hospital holds COVID warrior ‘hostage’ over bill||A government hospital doctor, who tested positive for COVID-19, has released a video clip in which she alleges that a private hospital in Chaderghat, where she was undergoing treatment, held her hostage over bill payment. Dr. Asra Sultana, a Civil Assistant Surgeon at Sir Ronald Ross Institute for Tropical and Communicable Diseases (Fever Hospital), Nallakunta, has alleged that the hospital demanded that she pay over Rs. 1 lakh for one-day treatment and did not let her leave despite her pleas to accept Rs. 50,000 and clear the dues later. No police compaint yet Based on her video clip, a team of Chaderghat police visited the hospital for an inquiry. The police, however, said they are yet to receive a complaint from the doctor or her family. Dr Sultana had attended COVID patients and suspects at the hospital till June 18. After testing positive for the virus, she isolated herself at home for around 14 days. She is diabetic and has hypertension too. “Upon developing respiratory distress, I went for a CT-Scan,” she said. Increased bill She got admitted to the private hospital in Chaderghat on July 2 midnight. “They charged me Rs. 1.15 lakh for one-day treatment. I requested the hospital’s administration to reduce the bill considering that I am a COVID frontline worker and that we cannot afford to pay the amount. But they did not agree. A day later, the bill was increased to Rs. 1.4 lakh,” Dr Sultana said. Scramble for money After arranging money, including putting her credit cards to use, she paid Rs. 1.3 lakh and was let go on July 3. Speaking to The Hindu , she said she opted for private hospital treatment despite working at a government hospital since two of her relatives were already admitted there and her sister, who stayed close by, could attend all of them when needed. After members of Telangana Government Doctors Association (Director of Health wing) intervened, she was assured admission to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), a semi-autonomous institute in the city. Her condition is stable now. The private hospital management could not reached despite multiple calls on the landline number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-hospital-holds-covid-warrior-hostage-over-bill/article31997871.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||This doctor goes down fighting||K.V.R. Prasad, a prominent senior physician in the city who had been diagnosed with COVID-19, passed away on July 2. He was 85. He had continued to attend to patients at the Sridevi Nursing Home, Sithaphalmandi, when COVID-19 cases were increasing in the city. His children forced him to stop going to the hospital. However, they could not hold him back beyond a few days. Born on March 15, 1936, Dr. Prasad pursued medicine at Bankura Medical College, West Bengal, and got his postgraduate diploma in chest diseases from Chest Hospital, Hyderabad. Dr. Prasad started practising at a small clinic in Sithaphalmandi 55 years ago. He established the nursing home which grew from 15 beds to 150 beds in course of time. Scores of people from the city opted for his treatment and generations of people waited to consult him for illnesses. Over the past 55 years, he attended to 100 patients on any given day. Even at 85, he did not have any health issue. During the pandemic Even when COVID-19 cases started to rise, he continued to attend to the same number of patients, taking all precautions till June 10, when he developed sore throat and fever. When his children held him back from going to the hospital, he retorted by saying, “Who will take care of my patients?”. Dr. Prasad tested positive for COVID-19 and fought the virus for three weeks before succumbing on July 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/this-doctor-goes-down-fighting/article31997873.ece
06 July 2020||Mangaluru,||Two children die in landslip in Mangaluru after heavy rain||Two children died in a landslip at Banglagudde in Gurupura on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. The Bajpe police identified them as Safwan, 16, and Sahala, 12, who belonged to the same family. According to the police and firemen, the landslip occurred at about 2 p.m. following rains. Three houses were fully damaged in the incident. Twenty firemen from Moodbidri, Kadri, and Pandeshwar fire stations were sent to the spot. In all, 15 personnel from the State Disaster Response Force, personnel from National Disaster Response Force, and the city police, besides the public were involved in the search and rescue operations that went on till 5 p.m. “It appears the two children were caught and buried under the rubble as they were running away along with other residents,” Chief Fire Officer G. Thippeswamy said.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. He said 118 persons had been shifted from 19 houses in the area. People from another 60 houses nearby were being shifted. They would be rehabilitated in Bondantila village by building houses. The Dakshina Kannada district administration has issued directions in this regard, he said in a statement. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader visited the spot. Mr. Kateel directed officials to shift the residents of 14 houses in the vicinity to nearby relief centres as they are likely to get affected if there were more landslips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-children-die-in-landslip-in-mangaluru-after-heavy-rain/article31997879.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||11-year-old Royal Bengal tiger dies at Nehru Zoological Park||A Royal Bengal male tiger ‘Kadamba’, aged eleven years, died at the Nehru Zoological Park on Saturday night. The zoo curator Kshitija told The Hindu that Kadamba died all of a sudden due to heart failure at 9.20 p.m. Since Kadamba was not taking his food since Friday morning, he was administered saline on Saturday after his condition became serious. The animal became too weak. The authorities were planning to collect his blood samples and take up a test on Monday, but death came too soon even before they could react. Ms. Kshitija said the zoo authorities initially believed the illness may have been due to temperature fluctuation on account of changes in the weather. A release of the curator also said Kadamba was brought to Nehru Zoological Park from Pilukula Biological Park at Mangalore on March 6, 2014, under an animal exchange programme. With his death, the zoo now has 20 Royal Bengal tigers, including 11 yellow and 9 white. There were eight adults and three cubs among yellow tigers, but all the white tigers were adults. Three yellow tigers Roja (21), Soni (20) and Aparna (19) have already surpassed their average lifespan. Ms. Kshitija also said the zoo has drawn up a breeding plan with the three tiger cubs in view of the ageing of three adults. The release added Kadamba did not show any apparent signs of illness earlier, but was off feed frequently for the last few days. He was under observation of the zoo veterinarians. As per the post-mortem report, the cause of death of Kadamba was shock due to congestive heart failure. All the required blood and tissue samples were collected and sent to College of Veterinary Science at Rajendranagar, Veterinary Biological Research Institute at Shantinagar and LaCONES-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology at Attaapur for further investigation. The post-mortem was conducted by a team headed by Prof. Laxman at the College of Veterinary Science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-year-old-royal-bengal-tiger-dies-at-nehru-zoological-park/article31997995.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Entomology workers under the shadow of disease||Disease prevention is an onerous task fulfilled by the GHMC Entomology field workers under testing circumstances, putting their own safety in peril. They are on the forefront, be it control of vector-borne diseases or COVID-19 spread. However, allegations are that they are not being provided enough safety gear by the corporation, even while being expected to disinfect areas where COVID-19 positive cases have been detected. Contrary to the state of affairs in Entomology wing, the disaster response teams from the Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management wing, who were initially seen spraying the disinfectant solution in public places, were given full PPE gear, complete with hazmat suits. Later, for reasons best known to the GHMC authorities, the entire spraying operations have been handed over to Entomology wing.  Though the corporation initially gave safety kits to the workers comprising masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, now, the latter complain that the same are not being replenished any more. “We have got only one mask, a single pair of gloves and one bottle of hand sanitiser. How do they expect them to last three to four months, worn eight hours a day? We are forced to buy our own masks to protect ourselves,” says Chinna Mallesh, a worker in Jahanuma division. He says the workers are being sent to risky locations where they could contact the deadly infection, such as quarantine centres, hospitals and graveyards, besides the areas where COVID-19 cases have come to fore. “Already, 30 to 40 workers from various circles have been infected. Though we are forced to risk our lives on daily basis, no safety gear is being provided. When we ask our immediate supervisors, they blame the head-office for the apathy,” one more worker revealed under the condition of anonymity. Entomology wing is getting several localities in the city sprayed with the disinfectant on a large scale, even while being unsure about its efficacy in preventing COVID-19 infection. The disinfectant being deployed is sodium hypochlorite solution, which is but ordinary bleach. Every day, over 700 litres of the solution is being sprayed across various localities of the city. “There is no proven study to vouch for the efficacy of the solution in COVID-19 prevention. But we keep getting calls from across the city, seeking disinfection of their respective localities. Even public representatives such as corporators and legislators call every now and then, and we are forced to oblige,” says a senior official. Several positive cases have surfaced in Pragathi Bhavan too recently, though the premises is disinfected regularly twice a day.  Psychologically affected Entomology workers are also getting psychologically affected, owing to the work pressure and the burden of having to visit infected zones on daily basis, the official informed. However, no counselling services are being provided for them. Officials said a set of safety gear had been provided to the workers, and a request has been placed for another round of distribution, and the Engineering wing is processing the tenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/entomology-workers-under-the-shadow-of-disease/article31997993.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista project: DUAC member quits||The Centre’s proposal to construct a new Parliament building was approved by the Delhi Urban Art Commission last week, on the same day that a member of the panel put in her papers on “personal grounds”, according to government officials. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, whose construction arm, the Central Public Works Department, is carrying out the project, accepted architect Sonali Rastogi’s resignation as a part-time member of the DUAC on July 2, a notification issued that day said. Ministry’s spokesperson Rajeev Jain said in a written response: “Resignation has been accepted on application for resignation quoting personal grounds.” Asked about the approvals and timelines for the project, he said the “DUAC has approved the Parliament project” and that the construction would take around two years from start to finish, “subject to improvement of the COVID-19 situation. The CPWD has recently started the process for pre-qualification of contractors for the project, which is a part of its larger Central Vista redevelopment plan. “The step of pre-qualification is based on security concerns. Only pre-qualified contractors will be provided details of building of Parliament,” he said. Ms. Rastogi had been appointed to her second three-year term as a member of the commission, which is the government’s adviser on preserving the urban and environmental design aesthetic of Delhi, on April 3, 2018. The notification said Ms. Rastogi had submitted her resignation via e-mail on July 1. Declines to comment On July 1, the DUAC met to discuss the project, according to sources familiar with the matter. Ms. Rastogi had attended part of the meeting, before leaving early and emailing her resignation later that day, a source said. Ms. Rastogi declined to comment on the matter. The DUAC had discussed the project and sent it back with comments, according to sources, on June 5. It has not made the minutes of the meeting, or of any meeting since May 29, public via its website. The CPWD’s consultant for the project, HCP Design, Planning and Management, told The Hindu on June 22 that the DUAC had asked for “additional details on provisions for landscape, parking, day-lighting and ventilation”.    (With inputs from   Sidharth Ravi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-vista-project-duac-member-quits/article31997917.ece
06 July 2020||Srinagar,||Two slain militants test positive, say J&K police||The J&K police on Sunday said that two militants killed in the Kulgam encounter on Saturday were found to be infected with COVID-19 — the first such cases since the police began taking samples from slain militants. Meanwhile, one CRPF jawan was injured when militants detonated an improvised explosive device (IED) in south Kashmir's Pulwama. “While carrying out the medico-legal formalities, the samples of the killed terrorists were taken and sent for COVID-19 test. On Sunday, the test reports were received from the Chest Disease Hospital, Srinagar, and both the killed terrorists were confirmed as coronavirus positive,” a police spokesman said. The two militants, one of whom was a non-local while the other is yet to be identified, were killed in a daylong operation in Kulgam. “The bodies of these killed terrorists shall be buried as per COVID-19 protocol at Baramulla,” the police spokesman added. Isolated graves The police said since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure the safety of people from inherent risk of contracting the infection, the burial of the terrorists is carried out at designated places in north and central Kashmir. Dozens of militants have been buried in far off and less populated hilly areas. No bodies have been handed over to the families for burial in their native places since April. On April 22, Director General of Police, Dilbagh Singh, expressed fears over “Pakistan trying to export coronavirus patients to Jammu & Kashmir”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-slain-militants-test-positive-say-jk-police/article31997903.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Students in limbo as UGC yet to decide on exams||Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, has set up its own panel to recommend a decision. For Central universities, the UGC decision is still awaited, with Delhi University students scheduled to begin online open book examinations in a week’s time, despite multiple difficulties with mock tests. With COVID-19 cases increasing at the rate of more than 22,000 per day, some students have stepped up a campaign — through letters, social media, and court cases — to cancel examinations and grant degrees on the basis of their performance in internal assessments and previous semester examinations. The hashtag #NoMoreWaitUGC was trending on Sunday with almost 40,000 tweets. “Students, parents & teachers are not ready to risk lives during COVID-19,” tweeted an Andhra Pradesh student’s group, using hastag #StudentsLives Matter. A group of students from the Gujarat Technological University wrote to UGC asking that their exams, which have been postponed, be cancelled and alternative assessment methods approved, so that they can go ahead with future plans. Other GTU students, however, said they were depending on the final year examinations to boost their grades. In April, a UGC panel headed by Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Haryana R.C. Kuhad had recommended that final year examinations could be held in July, while intermediate semester students could be graded based on internal assessment or examinations where possible.  (With inputs from Tanu Kulkarni in Bengaluru )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-in-limbo-as-ugc-yet-to-decide-on-exams/article31997885.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||More antigen tests in Thiruvananthapuram||The spurt in COVID-19 cases along the coastal belt in Thiruvananthapuram has prompted the Kerala government to intensify rapid antigen detection tests in the region. At least 15 people have been reported to have contracted the infection through a contact within a few days in the area. These included several people from Poonthura alone. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who has been spearheading the containment efforts in the district, pointed out that the critical situation called for further curbs on public movement. Steps were afoot to boost testing in Poonthura and nearby places on a war-footing. While over 200 swab samples were collected over the last two days, many more would be subjected to the test on the days to come. Mr. Surendran said the 27-year-old medical representative, a Poonthura resident, is known to have come in close proximity with several doctors, especially in hospitals at Kazhakuttom and Nalanchira. His route map had been prepared and would be circulated soon. He said Thiruvananthapuram was “sitting on an active volcano” with the rising number of cases and there was no guarantee that there would be no community spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-antigen-tests-in-thiruvananthapuram/article31997882.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||China doubles down on boundary claims||“Bhutan has sent a strong message to China,” said one source, adding that Bhutan’s response was also given through the GEF council meeting where China had raised the issue. At the time, Bhutan had assumed that since the Chinese representative was not a Foreign Ministry official, but a Deputy Director General (DDG) in the Chinese Financial and Monetary Cooperation Division, that the decision to stop the grant, which failed, was not thought through. According to the GEF Council Chairman’s summary released on June 16, of the virtual meeting held on June 2-3, Aparna Subramani, the World Bank official representing Bhutan, as well as India, Bangladesh, Maldives and Sri Lanka, had said that “Bhutan totally rejects the claim made by the Council Member of China. Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary is an integral and sovereign territory of Bhutan and at no point during the boundary discussions between Bhutan and China has it featured as a disputed area”. “Bhutan hoped its response would close the matter,” the source added. According to Bhutanese experts, the claim on Sakteng will open new fronts of negotiation when the next round of boundary talks are held. “Such claims undermine the boundary talks and wild claims on either side by officials will only exacerbate issues as Bhutan too can lay claims far north,” said Tenzing Lamsang, Editor of T he Bhutanese  newspaper in Thimphu, in a series of tweets last week. “Ultimately Bhutan and China need to resolve its boundary disputes or such false claims will come up as a pressure tactic,” he added.  (with inputs from Ananth Krishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-doubles-down-on-boundary-claims/article31997887.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine trials take 6 to 9 months: Swaminathan||So launching the vaccine for public use before August 15 this year would mean that the Phase-3 trial, which tests the efficacy of the vaccine on a large number of participants and takes the longest time to complete, may have to be skipped or rushed. In the midst of the pandemic and in the absence of any safe and efficacious vaccine, attempts are being made to accelerate vaccine development. On whether vaccine development can be rushed through, bypassing certain critical stages of testing, Dr Swaminathan said: “The pandemic demands unprecedented efforts to develop a vaccine. That is why the WHO and partners launched the ACT [Access to COVID-19 Tools] accelerator to accelerate the development, deployment and delivery of COVID vaccines. While clinical trials need to be performed with scientific rigour and demonstrate efficacy and safety, timelines can be shortened by investing in manufacturing upfront, preparing sites in advance, regulatory harmonisation, collaboration between the different government agencies and anticipating the next steps. Performing trials in areas and among groups with a high risk of infection will also help by accumulating the necessary endpoints in a shorter time.” Recently approved China has recently approved the use of one of its COVID-19 vaccines, which has completed Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials, to be used exclusively by the military for one year. The vaccine is not currently being made available for public use. Reiterating the need to conduct a Phase-3 trial before launching the vaccine for public use, Dr. Swaminathan told The Hindu : “Any vaccine that is going to be used at large scale must demonstrate efficacy and safety. The WHO has offered our support to vaccine developers all over the world to enable that the best science is performed, and to facilitate multi-country clinical trials.” “The scientific establishment in India has a long history of rising to national challenges and delivering the needed products. Indian manufacturers supply over half of childhood vaccines procured by the UNICEF and the GAVI. I am optimistic that with the capacity available in the public and private sector in India, that one or more successful vaccines will emerge,” she said. She also added that the WHO, along with the GAVI and the CEPI, is in dialogue with Secretary, DBT, and five Indian vaccine manufacturers to provide any kind of support and facilitate advancing the candidates to trials. Dr. Swaminathan added: “It is encouraging to see that at least seven Indian companies are developing COVID-19 vaccines. All of them must be tested, through the various phases, in collaboration with the DBT and the ICMR, and till we see results from these trials, we cannot predict which of them will be successful. Having a regulatory standard and clear criteria for advancing vaccines through the various stages, will be very helpful (the FDA has recently produced such a document, and so has the WHO).” “At the same time, it is important to start preparing for vaccine delivery and preparing the strategy and policy for deployment among various risk groups. Community engagement and preparedness will be an important component and must be addressed,” Dr Swaminathan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-trials-take-6-to-9-months-swaminathan/article31997886.ece
06 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Heavy rains cause landslips in Manipur||Torrential rains in the past few days have triggered massive landslips in Noney and Tamenglong district in Manipur, said official reports. Almost all rivers in the two districts are flowing above the danger mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heavy-rains-cause-landslips-in-manipur/article31997897.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||FAO issues locust alert for India||India, which is tackling the worst locust attack in 26 years for the last three months, should remain on “high alert” during the next four weeks, says the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Meanwhile, the Indian government has stepped up efforts and is using equipment such as drones and Bell helicopters to control the menace. Rajasthan is the most affected State in the country. The other affected States are Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fao-issues-locust-alert-for-india/article31997907.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||PM briefs President||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday and briefed him on issues of national and international importance, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. “Prime Minister @narendramodi called on President Kovind and briefed him on the issues of national and international importance at Rashtrapati Bhavan today [on Sunday],” said a tweet from the official handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The meeting comes just two days after Mr. Modi visited Leh and addressed soldiers at Nimu following the violent face-off between the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley. It is also reportedly the first meeting between the Prime Minister and the President ever since the border hostilities between India and China flared up. During Mr. Modi’s visit to Ladakh last Friday, the first since the stand-off started in the first week of May, Mr. Modi said the “era of expansionism is over,” without directly referring to China. “Friends, the age of expansionism is over, this is the era of development … whenever we have seen expansionist tendencies, these have spelt danger for world peace,” Mr. Modi had said while addressing troops in Nimu, a short distance from Leh town. As the Supreme Commander of the Indian Armed Forces, President Kovind had lauded the ‘exemplary courage and supreme sacrifice to protect the sovereignty and the integrity of the country.” “All those who laid down their lives in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh have upheld the best traditions of the Indian armed forces. Their valour will be eternally etched in the memory of the nation,” President Kovind said while offering deep condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-briefs-president/article31997909.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Drugs under review after trial results||Drugs Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir/Ritonavir and Favipiravir, currently being used for COVID-19 patients, have come under the Health Ministry’s scanner. Senior officials have confirmed that with both national and international information and trial results coming in for these drugs, “constant monitoring and review for use are essential.” “We are waiting and watching,” said a senior Health Ministry official. Top on the chart for review is Remdesivir, which is presently allowed for restricted use in moderate cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drugs-under-review-after-trial-results/article31997913.ece
06 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||8 killed as fire engulfs ‘candle’ factory in U.P.||Seven women were among at least eight people killed and four injured when fire engulfed a ‘candle’ factory in a village near Modinagar in Ghaziabad district on Sunday afternoon, officials said. Ram Kishore, Station Fire Officer, Modinagar, said two fire tenders were pressed into service. “The cause of the fire is being ascertained,” he said. Local sources said the factory, run by Nitin Chaudhary, made light firecrackers, particularly sparklers and party poppers used in birthday parties, and was in operation for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8-killed-as-fire-engulfs-candle-factory-in-up/article31997911.ece
06 July 2020||Belagavi,||Covaxin trial to kick off in Belagavi soon||Covaxin, the first possible vaccine against COVID-19, will be tested on a team of around 200 healthy volunteers in and around Belagavi. The clinical trials will be conducted by doctors and staff members of Jeevan Rekha, a multi-speciality hospital here, monitored by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd., the private company that has developed the chemical molecule, doctors at thehospital said. Jeevan Rekha is one of the 12 hospitals and health centres in the country chosen by the Union government for clinical trials of the vaccine, whose technical name is BBV152 COVID vaccine. “We are happy to be part of the trial of the first indigenously developed vaccine for this dreaded disease,” said Amit Bhate, director of the hospital. He said ICMR officials have been giving them instructions through online meetings. He said while a vaccine trial usually takes around three months, the COVID-19 vaccine trial was being put on the fast track. TheICMR has announced that the drug could be recommended for general usage after the second week of August. “We have been asked to speed up the process. We have been asked to work around the clock, if need be, andrelease the data as soon as possible,” he said. “We are conducting the trials only on healthy individuals as of now.” According to Dr. Bhate, the hospital will send out invitations to 150 to 200 volunteers willing to take up injectable doses of the vaccine. “They will be closely observed. The drug’s effects on them will be recorded and shared with ICMR. That will be considered before recommending general usage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-trial-to-kick-off-in-belagavi-soon/article31997869.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,||ICUs to be set up at COVID Care Centres in Bengaluru||The State government has decided to set up Intensive Care Units (ICUs) at COVID Care Centres (CCC) in Bengaluru as part of measures to tackle the pandemic. A note from the office of Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that every CCC would be equipped with 10 ICUs, and the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC), which is being converted into one, would have 100 ICUs. On Sunday, he visited the BIEC to take stock of the preparations under way there. The note said that the government had already set up CCCs at the GKVK campus, Haj Bhavan, and the Art of Living Foundation campus, and similar facilities would be operational at the BIEC, Government Ayurveda College, and Koramangala Indoor Stadium soon. The decision to have ICUs at CCCs came after a meeting with medical experts at the BIEC. By Monday, 7,000 beds will be ready at the BIEC, while another 3,000 will be made available later in the week. Asymptomatic patients will be diverted to the BIEC now, he said. No non-medical duty The Deputy Chief Minister said that all medical staff would be relieved from their non-medical duty at the CCCs since the government was deploying additional staff. “With this, the medical staff will be free from routine works and can focus on COVID-19 care,” he said. When the medical staff at the CCC brought to his notice the shortage in supply of drugs, he directed the officials concerned to ensure all the required medicines and drugs are supplied on priority basis, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icus-to-be-set-up-at-covid-care-centres-in-bengaluru/article31998021.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED to register another money-laundering case against Sanjay Bhandari||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has initiated the process of registering another money-laundering case against middleman Sanjay Bhandari and others. It is related to an alleged illegal consultancy agreement with Samsung Engineering Co. Limited (SECL) to help the company get a project worth Rs. 6,744.32 crore in Gujarat. Last month, in the same matter, the CBI booked the accused persons in a corruption case. In June last year, the CBI had booked Mr. Bhandari and others for alleged corruption in the Rs. 2,895-crore deal for 75 Pilatus aircraft for the IAF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-to-register-another-money-laundering-case-against-sanjay-bhandari/article31997896.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||America loves India: Trump||U.S. President Donald Trump sent a message of solidarity to India during the weekend. The remark from Mr. Trump was issued on his official social media accounts after Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished him on the 244th independence day of the United States. “Thank you, my friend. America loves India,” Mr. Trump said. In his message, Mr. Modi had said as the “largest democracies” of the world, both India and the U.S. cherish “freedom and human enterprise”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/america-loves-india-trump/article31997901.ece
06 July 2020||Kolkata,||Civil society groups, prominent citizens denounce arrest of journalists in Bengal||Several civil society organisations and prominent citizens from West Bengal have signed a statement protesting against the arrest of journalists running a YouTube channel “Arambag TV”. Sheikh Shafikul Islam, chief executive of the channel, his wife Alima Khatun and another journalist Suraj Ali Khan were arrested on June 29. They were sent to police custody by a district court. Retired Supreme Court Justice Asok K. Ganguly, former State Chief Secretary Ardhendu Sen and Prasad Ranjan Ray are among the signatories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civil-society-groups-prominent-citizens-denounce-arrest-of-journalists-in-bengal/article31997904.ece
06 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Undergo quarantine before tying the knot, Rourkela tells grooms||With COVID-19 positive cases rising rapidly across Odisha, the Rourkela administration has come out with a peculiar order, stating that any groom coming to city from districts with high COVID-19 loads for marriage will have to undergo 14-days of quarantine before tying the knot. The city administration would advise those coming from 14 identified districts to go for either institutional or home quarantine. People from highly infected districts should not spend more than 72 hours in the city, and should not interact with anyone, the Rourkela ADM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/undergo-quarantine-before-tying-the-knot-rourkela-tells-grooms/article31997912.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. blocks 40 websites of Sikhs For Justice||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has issued orders for blocking 40 websites of the U.S.-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), which has been banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The ban orders came on recommendations from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The outfit, which was banned by the MHA about a year ago, has been running an online campaign for recruiting supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-blocks-40-websites-of-sikhs-for-justice/article31997918.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM-CARES Fund’s opacity risking lives, says Cong.||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that ‘non-transparent’ functioning of the PM-CARES Fund was ‘risking Indian lives’. Meanwhile, former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh accused the Centre of trying to manage headlines by giving out a deadline to launch a vaccine against COVID-19. The party said such a move would ‘destroy’ the credibility of the ICMR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-funds-opacity-risking-lives-says-cong/article31997922.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||30 kg of gold seized from consulate cargo||Customs enforcers on Sunday inspected an air cargo consignment addressed to the Consular General of the United Arab Emirates here and found 30 kg of gold concealed in imported plumbing material. Officials valued the contraband at Rs. 15 crore. The shipment had arrived at the international airport here five days ago. It was kept unopened pending customs clearance at the air cargo complex. Possibly acting on a tipoff, Customs enforcers summoned consulate officials to the air cargo complex and opened the shipment in their presence. They found the gold concealed in cylindrical form inside pipes, faucets and an air-compressor. The UAE consulate has denied any knowledge of the smuggling operation. Under scrutiny Customs investigators said local people working for the consulate were under their scrutiny. They said investigators might have uncovered a part of an international gold smuggling operation using diplomatic goodwill as a cover. The method of operation was, arguably, hitherto unreported. The Customs rarely conducted intrusive inspections of shipments imported by foreign diplomats. It, often as a rule of thumb, accepted the testimonial given by foreign embassy and consular officials. An official said the consulate here regularly flew in large shipments from abroad via the international airport here. “All such consignments are now suspect,” he said. The operation spanned international borders and seemed well-entrenched given its audacity. The method of concealment and the quantity of gold imported illegally testified to its scale. Insider help Investigators said it was not a single-carrier operation and involved operators in the UAE and their collaborators in Kerala. “It has all the markings of an operation carried out with insider help. The suspects could include consular staff, airport insiders and their local collaborators,” they said, Investigators said the smuggling ring could have raked in a profit of Rs. 1.5 crore if they had succeeded. The differential between the price of gold in the country and abroad had caused a resurgence in gold smuggling. The Central government had hiked the tax on gold to make up for the country’s yawning current account deficit.  Rise in smuggling It also caused a startling increase in the amount of gold smuggled into the country using educated women, blue-collar workers, expatriates and professionals as carriers. Gold smuggling has also spawned a financially powerful mafia with international links.  UAE consulate denies any knowledge of the smuggling operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-kg-of-gold-seized-from-consulate-cargo/article31997880.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka’s former house allotted to BJP MP||The bungalow that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was asked to vacate by August 1 after the allotment was cancelled on July 1 has now been allotted to BJP spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni, a Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry official said on Sunday. The Congress general secretary had been asked to vacate 35, Lodhi Estate as her Special Protection Group security cover had been withdrawn, the Directorate of Estates had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyankas-former-house-allotted-to-bjp-mp/article31997893.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State briefly/RSP||The CPI(M) and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan have become proponents of neoliberal policies, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) alleged on Sunday. The e-mobility consultancy awarded to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is the latest example of this policy, RSP leaders said. The CPI(M) central leadership should clarify its stand on the path taken by the party State unit, the RSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-brieflyrsp/article31998293.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPCL Board for investment approval for refinery||The Board of Directors of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL) has recommended to the Board of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL), its holding company, investment approval for the construction of the 9 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) refinery at its Cauvery Basin Refinery (CBR) in Nagapattinam. The project will help increase the refining capacity in Tamil Nadu and ensure uninterrupted supplies to the southern parts of the State and neighbouring States. It will also aid in economic development of these areas. CPCL has also notified the National Stock Exchange of its board’s recommendation for the project that would be a joint venture between IOCL and CPCL, where the two companies would hold 25% of shares each. The balance would be held by financial or strategic or public investors who would be identified later. The project would cost an estimated Rs. 28,980 crore, said a company source. Now, the investment proposal awaits the approval of the board of the IOCL. The environmental clearance for the project is awaited. As far land acquisition, a team of Revenue Department officials, formed by the Tamil Nadu government, has started its work, said a company official. CPCL already owns 650 acres in the area since the CBR had been functioning there with a capacity of one MMTPA. The first-stage approval for the project was received from CPCL/IOCL Boards in September 2017. Subsequently, selection of technology and preparation of process packages were completed. A detailed feasibility report has also been completed. The company has plans to install a single-point mooring to source crude oil for the project. Crude oil will be transported to the refinery through a pipeline from the mooring. The bulk of the refined products will be despatched through a cross-country pipeline to Tiruchi, and the balance through coastal evacuation using nearby port facilities. CPCL’s refinery at Manali has a refining capacity of 10.5 MMPTA. Its products include fuel, wax, naphtha and LPG. The CBR was set up in 1993 with a capacity of .5 MMPTA, which was later enhanced to 1 MMPTA. The refinery at the CBR is being replaced with a state-of-the- art refinery of 9 MMTPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpcl-board-recommends-investment-approval-for-refinery-at-nagapattinam/article31998094.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 4,150 fresh cases; 2,186 patients discharged||As many as 4,150 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 1,11,151*. With 2,186 patients having been discharged from various facilities after treatment on Sunday, the total number of persons discharged stands at 62,778. There are 46,860 active cases in the State. Among the fresh cases were 73 returnees. While 22 of them had returned from abroad, the rest had come to Tamil Nadu from other States. With 1,713 fresh cases, Chennai saw a dip in its daily case count, while 1,000 persons were discharged after treatment. As of date, 24,890 persons are undergoing treatment in the city. The number of active cases (including those in isolation) stands at 46,860, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health. Madurai recorded 308 cases, followed by Chengalpattu (274) and Tiruvallur (209). As many as 34,102 persons were tested for the infection in a single day. Health officials said they had tested 12,83,419 persons so far. The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 rose to 1,510. As many as 60 deaths were recorded in the State on Sunday. Seventeen deaths were reported at private hospitals and 43 at government institutions. Three persons, whose deaths were reported by the Health Department on Sunday, had no co-morbid conditions. A 57-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who was admitted to the government medical college there on June 30, tested positive for the infection on July 3. He died in the early hours of Saturday. A 59-year-old man, admitted on June 19 to the Omandurar Medical College Hospital in Chennai after testing positive two days earlier, died on July 3. A 48-year-old man from the city, who was admitted to the Government Stanley Hospital on June 28, died on July 3. At the Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital, an 84-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease died on Saturday. He was admitted on June 29 with complaints of fever and cough for three days. The hospital recorded his death as having occurred due to cardio-pulmonary arrest. Deaths in districts Deaths were recorded at hospitals in Madurai, Chengalpattu, Virudhunagar, Theni, Karur, Kancheepuram, Thoothukudi, Tiruvallur, Virudhunagar, Villupuram, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Sivaganga, Pudukottai and Kanniyakumari districts. The government has added one more laboratory for the purpose of testing. The SRM Institutes for Medical Sciences’ laboratory in Chennai has been approved to test COVID-19 samples. With this, Tamil Nadu has 95 laboratories for testing. While 49 are in the government sector, 46 are in the private sector, officials said.  (*Two deaths were cross notified to other states and one patient died after turning negative for infection.)   As many as 34,102 persons were tested for the infection in a single day. Health officials said they had tested 12,83,419 persons so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-4150-fresh-cases-2186-patients-discharged/article31998085.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Check dam near Tiruttani to bolster Chennai’s water supply||As part of its efforts to save flood waters, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has proposed to construct three check dams across various waterways in Tiruvallur district. One of them, built at Illupur, about 20 km upstream of the Poondi reservoir, will help augment Chennai’s water supply. The department has submitted the proposal to build two check dams across Kusa river in Pallipattu taluk at Sangeethakuppam and Kumarajapet and another structure in Illupur at a cost of Rs. 26.75 crore. Officials of the WRD said the project to build the 230-metre long check dam will be implemented across the Nagari river at Illupur near Tiruttani. This will partially fulfil the city’s drinking water demand by providing 30 million cubic feet of water. The Rs. 18-crore storage structure will increase the groundwater potential in agricultural wells located within a 3-km radius and stabilise irrigation on 296 hectares of land. Nagari tributaries Lava and Kusa rivers are tributaries of the Nagari river that originates in Andhra Pradesh. Of the 17-km-long Kusa, about 4 km flows within Tamil Nadu limits. Both rivers join near Pallipet to become the Nagari and flow for 69 km till the Poondi reservoir. The reservoir mainly gets its inflow from these waterways apart from the Kosasthalaiyar. Following the 2015 floods, farmers of Sangeethakuppam, Venkatarajukuppam, and Veliyagaram villages made representations for two check dams to prevent floods in the Kusa that inundated several agricultural fields. Officials said the 66-metre check dam at Sangeethakuppam, nearly 65 km upstream of the Poondi reservoir, would help recharge 58 agricultural borewells around it and benefit nearly 53 hectares. Similarly, an 80-metre check dam to be be built at Kumarajapet to enhance groundwater potential would help recharge about 40 agricultural borewells. “We have already constructed four check dams upstream of the Poondi reservoir. The aim is to build such facilities at every 3-4 km of the rivers to store water. We plan to start work for new check dams in a few months,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-dam-near-tiruttani-to-bolster-chennais-water-supply/article31998063.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stay at home, police urge citizens||People should come out only for essential needs from Monday and not roam around after the total lockdown is relaxed, said Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. Speaking to media persons near Anna Arch on Sunday, he said that experts had stated that lesser public movement would help break the chain of transmission. “When people come out, they should wear masks and ensure personal distancing,” he said. All deputy commissioners of police in the city held a meeting with traders in their jurisdiction to ensure that safety measures were followed. The officers had told the traders to ensure that customers had masks on, used sanitisers in the shop and followed personal distancing. “Announcements about safety measures are made through the public address system in Madhavaram fruit market and the fish markets in Kasimedu and Chintadripet. Police personnel have been deployed there. If all precautions are followed, we can continue with our routine life without getting infected,” he said. From June 19 till date, 1.10 lakh cases had been registered for violation of Section 144 and 87,000 vehicles seized, Mr. Aggarwal said. Regarding reports of a ban on Friends of Police (FoP) in many districts, he said that it was just a form of community policing and some people came forward to serve the public. Friends of police “In some places they are called volunteers and some call it FoP. Community policing ensures transparency. Sometimes traders volunteer to regulate traffic and ensure other shop owners follow lockdown rules. But they do not have police powers. Neither the police nor such volunteers should display high-handedness,” said Mr. Aggarwal. He said that police officers had been directed not to encourage volunteers who had cases or complaints against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-at-home-police-urge-citizens/article31998056.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dedicated vehicles to transport residents to screening centres||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched vehicles for each of the 200 wards to transport residents to COVID-19 screening centres. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash told journalists on Sunday that each of the sanitary inspectors of the 200 wards would get one 10-seater vehicle to transport residents to 12 screening centres. This is aimed at avoiding delay in transport. “The city has COVID-19 screening centres at 12 locations. We are planning to increase the number of screening centres. Medical college professors will screen the residents, taking X-ray and a complete blood count, and carry out gradation of the patients before sending them to tertiary care hospitals, COVID-19 health centres or COVID-19 care centres,” Mr. Prakash said. Many COVID-19-positive residents, who have been asymptomatic, have also been sent to home isolation, monitored by FOCUS volunteers. At least 75% of the positive patients in the city are asymptomatic. Most of them are in home isolation. According to estimates, more than 12,000 positive patients are in home isolation. Around 10% of the patients are in tertiary care hospitals and around 15% in COVID-19 health centres. Following an increase in the number of positive cases in more than 9,500 streets of the city in the last week of June, the civic body initiated measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. As a result, the number of streets with active cases had come down by 1,100. According to data compiled on July 3, 8,402 of the 39,506 streets in the 15 zones have active cases. Stressing the need for reducing the time taken for screening, Mr. Prakash said the time would be brought down to three hours. “COVID-19 management is a major activity. In April, we were directed by the Chief Minister to focus on patient management. So, we started five screening centres. Now, the number of screening centres has increased to 12. The Chief Minister has ordered that the screening process be completed in three hours,” Mr. Prakash said. “As we are relaxing lockdown, we need cooperation from residents. The number of beds in the COVID-19 care centres is 17,500. New care centres will be opened in seven days. Consequently, the number of beds in these centres will increase. Fever camps have been successful, preventing the spread of COVID-19,” he said. The city had 24,195 active cases on Sunday. At least 41,000 positive patients had recovered. The case mortality rate in the city was 1.55%., Mr. Prakash added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dedicated-vehicles-to-transport-residents-to-screening-centres/article31998048.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to absorb burden if Centre cuts share in crop cover premium||The State government will absorb the anticipated additional burden in the payment of premium for the Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme (Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana — PMFBY) in the light of the Centre’s move to reduce its share of premium payment, according to senior officials of the Agriculture department. This year, the State government may have to shell out up to Rs. 150 crore so that farmers are not taxed in any way. Till now, after giving allowance for farmers’ share of 2% generally, the Union and the State governments shared the premium amount equally. Effective this year, the Centre introduced the element of the status of irrigation in a given district for determining the premium amount and sought to restrict its assistance. Consequently, it divided each State into two broad categories — irrigated and non-irrigated districts. In respect of the irrigated districts, the Centre has decided to limit subsidy in premium to 25% of the sum insured and in non-irrigated districts to 30%. The hitch will arise if insurance companies charge higher premium rates than the Centre’s stipulation. For example, if an insurance company fixes the premium rate of 33% for a crop in a non-irrigated district, the Centre and the State government would bear only 14% each, with farmers taking the load of 2%. In such a case, the State government has to take care of the balance 3%, the officials said. Irrigated districts are those having 50% or more irrigated areas and non-irrigated ones are those having less than 50%. Going by this definition, Tamil Nadu has nine non-irrigated districts of Salem, Virudhunagar, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Perambalur, Thoothukudi and the Nilgiris. The other change in the guidelines is that enrolment has been made voluntary. Earlier, all those who wanted to take loans had to have insurance cover. But this will have no impact on Tamil Nadu as farmers who did not take crop loans constituted 70% to 80% of those covered by insurance. In another development, farmers, who insured their crops during samba season last year, may start receiving the claim amount later this month. The compensation for 2019-20 is expected to be less than that of the previous year in view of a bumper harvest during the samba season. With kuruvai cultivation under way, the authorities are taking steps to intensify enrolment of farmers. The cut-off dates for coverage of paddy in the delta are July 31, and in Madurai and Krishnagiri August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-absorb-burden-if-centre-cuts-share-in-crop-cover-premium/article31998133.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Economic activity picking up pace; green shoots emerging in some sectors’||Economic activity in many of the districts that did not go into an intensified lockdown has picked up significantly, and the easing of curbs in the regions that did face such a shutdown — Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu — from Monday is likely to add momentum to what the Tamil Nadu government hopes will be the beginning of an economic revival. Senior government officials said economic activity had reached 60-65% in several districts, and close to 70% of pre-lockdown levels in a few regions that did not face an intensified lockdown. “The momentum of economic activity has picked up. Electricity and fuel consumption has gone up. The bulk diesel consumption for freight hasn’t really stopped. There have been no real complaints about the disruption of cargo movement by road, except during the initial phase of the lockdown,” a senior official said. Another official said many industries had indicated that they had seen green shoots, especially in the automobile and textiles sectors. The IT/ITeS sectors too have been performing well, with government officials saying, citing feedback, that productivity has gone up to 90-95%, with employees working from home. According to officials, in districts like Tiruppur and Coimbatore and the western belt, textile manufacturing facilities are functioning at almost full production capacity, and have sought further relaxations to allow them to function on Sundays as well. As far as Chennai and its surrounding districts are concerned, the extent of the economic revival would be known only after a month, an official said. While industries continued to function with limited capacity in these regions, the availability of labour was a major issue, the official said. “However, some industries told us that they were able to find labour, albeit at a slightly higher cost. Other issues like supply chains need to be addressed, and we are looking at those,” the official added. “For example, the automobile industry has told us that even if they produce [vehicles], showrooms and dealers can’t reopen. So, the entire [supply] chain has to slowly come back,” the official pointed out. When asked if there would still be a demand for products, considering that a number of industries have slashed jobs and instituted pay cuts, officials said this was one of the primary reasons why the State government took a conscious decision not to defer the salaries of government staff. “This was a very conscious decision. Two reasons — one, we are telling the private sector not to cut salaries, and we cannot do something contrary to that; two, we believe that when expenditure needs to pick up, people need to have purchasing power. If we are able to put that money into the system, people are going to be able to spend,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/economic-activity-picking-up-pace-green-shoots-emerging-in-some-sectors/article31998092.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. decides to go for pool testing in low prevalence areas||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to go in for pool testing of COVID-19 samples. The protocols are expected to be ready in a few days. Pool testing is a method by which multiple samples, up to a total of five, are tested together, in one single RT-PCR test. In mid-April, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) put out an advisory, recommending pool testing as the number of positive cases began to rise rapidly. Pool testing can be done only in a population where the positivity is known to be low. Five samples are taken together and analysed, and if the result of a pool is positive, individual samples are tested again. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the government had decided to go ahead with the testing methodology in areas where it was sure that case positivity rate was under 2%. “It will not work in an area like Chennai, where the positivity rate is about 20%. But there are several areas where the positivity is way lower than that, which will qualify. One area we are directly looking at is people returning from abroad. That category of people has only about 1.5% positivity. Pool testing would be ideal in that situation.” Pool testing is recommended as a tool to increase the number of tests quickly, and a cost-saving measure while doing so. As per the ICMR advisory, it must be used only in areas with low prevalence of COVID-19. In areas with positivity of 2-5%, sample pooling for PCR screening may be considered, only in community survey or surveillance among asymptomatic individuals, strictly excluding the pooling samples of individuals with known contact with confirmed cases, and health care workers in direct care of COVID-19 patients. It says that it is preferable that the number of samples to be pooled is five, though more than two samples can be pooled, because of the higher possibility of missing positive samples with a low viral load. No antigen testing The State government has also decided that since it has ramped up its RT-PCR testing and will go in for pool testing as well, antigen testing is not necessary. Antigen tests involve drawing a blood sample and testing it to show if a person has antibodies for COVID-19, indicating that he/she has, at some point, been positive. “In this scenario, we feel that antigen tests are not necessary here. Given that its sensitivity (correctly identifying those with disease) and specificity (those without the disease) is lower than RT-PCR, we would rather go for the latter,” Dr. Radhakrishnan explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-decides-to-go-for-pool-testing-in-low-prevalence-areas/article31998093.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Velachery flyover work picks up pace||The Highways Department has utilised the lockdown period to remove encroachments from 850 sq m of land that had come in the way of building the double decker flyovers in Velachery. There were around 20 shops in that space and they were removed a few weeks ago. “We have removed all the hurdles as far as this project is concerned. The compound wall of a private property is to be demolished shortly. The owner is constructing a new wall inside,” said an official concerned with the project. Water mains passing beneath that portion had been shifted and foundation work taken up. The contractor was trying to get more workers from West Bengal to speed up the construction. Velachery resident Kumararaja said he was delighted to see the pace of the work. “This is really good news during this lockdown time. All the departments concerned have done a great job despite manpower shortage,” he said. The department had to complete three spans of 40 metres each, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velachery-flyover-work-picks-up-pace/article31998050.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special teams to regulate traffic||The Chennai traffic police have formed special teams to regulate traffic in the city as the lockdown rules have been relaxed. From midnight of July 5, the total lockdown in the city has been relaxed. “We are expecting some increase in vehicle movement. Hence, we have identified places that are expected to witness high traffic. Special teams will be deployed at these spots to ensure smooth movement of traffic,” said N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic). The entire trafffic police force would be on the road. “We are going back to the restrictions that were in place prior to June 19. All the 400-odd signals in the city will function from Monday,” he added. Meanwhile, the traffic police convened a meeting with representatives of traders’ association, private transport operators, autorickshaw drivers’ union, Koyambedu vegetable, flowers and fruit traders’ association, and private water lorry owners’ association on Saturday. During the meeting, Mr. Kannan told the participants that only two passengers would be allowed to travel in an autorickshaw at a time. Cycle rickshaws too would be permitted. Cabs could operate with three passengers. Vehicles running for IT and other private firms would be permitted. The police had stressed that autorickshaws and cabs should disinfect the vehicles regularly. Passengers and drivers should wear masks and failure to do so would attract action under Section 144, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-to-regulate-traffic/article31998058.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate in Chennai stabilising, but people should remain vigilant: Health Secy.||The positivity rate in Chennai, which had been rising until recently, is now gradually stabilising. But that does not mean people can drop their guard, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Sunday. After inspecting a fever camp, Dr. Radhakrishnan said 12,354 such camps had been held in the city till date, and over 8 lakh people had attended them. He pointed out that there were 1,979 slums under the Greater Chennai Corporation, and that the government had deployed one person on pandemic-related work for every 150 houses. It had also roped in non-governmental organisations, he added. “We identified nearly 37,000 persons with influenza-like infection, and swabs were collected from 32,861 persons for testing. So, the fever camps have been useful. This strategy helped in isolating people and providing them treatment. The same activities will be continued,” he said. With the government relaxing lockdown restrictions from Monday, the Health Department is concerned about the possibility of people ignoring the precautionary measures that need to be taken. Dr. Radhakrishnan urged people to follow protocols like maintaining physical distance of at least six feet, washing their hands frequently and wearing masks in public places. He also appealed to the public not to crowd shops and markets. “The biggest challenge is that we should continue observing these [norms] diligently and not take them lightly,” he said, urging people to visit a fever clinic if they develop symptoms like fever, cough or cold. He reiterated the importance of public support for the government’s measures. The next step would be to increase the number of samples collected in Madurai, where the case count has been rising, he said. Dr. Radhakrishnan also visited Tiruvallur on Sunday and held meetings with health officials there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-in-chennai-stabilising-but-people-should-remain-vigilant-health-secy/article31998082.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspension of flights to Kolkata may hit hundreds of passengers||With the Kolkata airport suspending flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad, from July 6 to 19, hundreds of Kolkata-bound passengers from Chennai are likely to be affected. But arrival operations have not been stopped, and hence, flights from Kolkata will continue to land at Chennai airport. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that every day, 4-5 flights leave for Kolkata from Chennai. “We still see many workers and those stuck here heading back to Kolkata. There are also those who may have arrived in Chennai for treatment before the lockdown and now want to return home. Such passengers may be affected,” an official said. Passengers who have already made bookings are worried about the announcement. Some of them are also transit passengers, heading from Chennai to places like Patna via Kolkata. Sale of tickets Despite the order, a few airlines and online travel portals continue to sell tickets to Kolkata. If a passenger, unaware of the order, makes a booking, he will have to wait for months to get a refund or a credit shell. Fares for the flights range between Rs. 7,000 and Rs. 8,000, one way. “The workers will especially be affected, as they may not even be aware of the announcement,” an official said. A few weeks ago, workers living in a camp near Pallavaram came all the way to the airport to travel to Kolkata. Only on arrival were they informed that their flight had been cancelled, and with the help of some State authorities, they had to take a bus, and then a train, to get home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspension-of-flights-to-kolkata-may-hit-hundreds-of-passengers/article31998088.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State power utility to resume meter reading from today||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has asked its assessors to resume door-to-door meter reading from Monday. A senior official of the power utility said that although the COVID-19 lockdown had been extended till July 31, there would not be any exemption henceforth for meter reading, even if the lockdown was to be extended beyond July. Electricity Minister P. Thangamani said that the reading had not been taken in April and May because of the lockdown. He said that the exercise was resumed in June but was stopped after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a total lockdown in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts from June 19. However, consumer activists have been critical of the government for exempting assessors from taking meter readings even while other electricity staff have been engaged in maintenance work. Consumer activist M. Somasundaram, who received an “exorbitant” electricity bill, said that since electricity supply was an essential service, meter reading could have been carried out. He said meters were fixed on the ground floor and taking a reading did not involve any human interaction. V. Rajagopal, a resident welfare activist, said that Tangedco, having worked out a calculation to find the average units consumed, could have avoided controversy over meter reading exemption.  The meters are fixed on the ground floor and taking a reading does not involve any human interaction M. Somasundaram Consumer activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-power-utility-to-resume-meter-reading-from-today/article31998080.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Long wait for JEE means more time for students||For several students who took up their Class XII board examinations in March, it has been a long wait to write several competitive examinations including the JEE-Main and JEE-Advanced. The exams, which were originally scheduled to be held in April, were rescheduled to July owing to the national lockdown and now have been postponed to September. What would normally be a gap of around a month between their board exams and the JEE-Main has now stretched on for months. While some students have taken up the JEE-Main exam during the first round held earlier this year, many others are waiting to take it up only in September. Student groups “We have taken advantage of the extra time and are identifying different student groups to address their needs with regard to their preparation. Even small concepts that they might have previously omitted due to lack of time are now being given attention to,” said Pawan Kumar, deputy director, FIITJEE, Chennai. Mr. Pawan, however, says that they are taking care to address the psychological concerns students might be facing as well, due to the long gap. For students like Renuka Gollamudi, the long break between the boards and the JEE meant that they have been able to space out their preparation better. “While we would normally be studying around 12 to 14 hours a day before the exams, we are now able to divide our time better and study for shorter hours. I have realised it is important to take breaks as well and just relax on some days,” she said. While several students enrol in coaching classes from Class XI to crack the JEE exams, the added time has been a big bonus for students who enrolled in coaching classes in March. “Thanks to the time available, many students have managed to complete our long two year course over the last two months,” said Balaji Sampath, founder, AhaGuru. Mr. Sampath said that since a majority of his students were confident about the concepts, the focus was on giving them worksheets and regular tests. Students too, have been taking up tests available through their coaching classes or through apps like the National Test Abhyas and are using their scores to identify areas that might need attention. “There is no dearth of material or resources to keep the students engaged. However, both teachers and parents need to ensure that they stay motivated and continue to work towards taking up the exams well,” Mr. Pawan said. The JEE-Main exam will now be held from September 1 to 6 and students who qualify will take up the JEE Advanced on September 27.  For some students, the long break between the boards and the JEE meant that they have been able to space out their preparation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-wait-for-jee-continues-students-make-effective-use-of-time/article31998068.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-China sentiment looms over Ritchie Street||With the anti-China sentiment running high after the border face-off issue along with calls to boycott Chinese products, Chennai's electronics grey market hub, Ritchie Street, is feeling the pinch already. Traders here, who have been depending on Chinese goods for decades, said that the anti-China sentiment is slowly seeping into southern States too. A trader said: “We had closed down businesses from June 19 and will be opening on Monday. Once the market is operational and consumers start coming, we will know the impact.” “Anti-China sentiment is becoming very strong in northern markets and now it is slowly picking up in south too,” said R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders Association, Ritchie Street. “Consumers are now ready to pay more and buy India made products,” he said. On the trade front, Mr. Chandalia said that there had been no impact and materials and consignments have been coming from China. Mukesh Khubchandani, president of the All India Electronics’ Association (AIEA), Chennai, said that anti-China sentiments were brewing in the electronics hub across India but one needed to watch for another month to see what happens. “I visit China once in two months. Based on my experience, my suggestion to the government here is that create industrial towns where people can start manufacturing locally. At AIEA, we encourage our members to look for opportunities and ways to make products locally. We are also taking up with the Government to help us in meeting these challenges. We should get funding at interest rates similar to China and land at cheaper prices,” Mr Khubchandani said. Rise in prices On the other hand, there is a shortage of Chinese products because of which prices have gone up. A trader on Narasingapuram Street said that his counterparts in Delhi mentioned about the anti-China sentiments. “This is temporary and won't last long. Even spare parts come from China and so after a point, consumers will move on,” he said. Dharmendra Kumbhat, who runs Sunshine Tele Link, said customers were now demanding Indian products. A section of traders said the issue would fizzle out as people were more worried about COVID-19. But if the government imposed a ban on Chinese goods, it would impact businesses in not just Ritchie Street but in several manufacturing firms who rely on traders here for spare parts and accessories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-china-sentiment-looms-over-ritchie-street/article31998052.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Storage firm makes Chennai foray||Leaving the city for a few months or years and wondering where to drop off your household items? Safe Storage, a startup providing storage space for people to keep their household goods and help businesses to store and manage their corporate documents will soon be entering the Chennai market. The startup has entered into a lease agreement for a 5,000 square feet space in Katupakkam. The firm intends to scale this space up to 50,000 sq. ft. in the next one year. “Individuals want to save rent as they will be working from their hometown over the next few months. They temporarily want to park their household goods somewhere and that's where we come into the picture. They can leave all their things with us including vehicles for a particular fee and we will ensure that it is safe. People can store their household things when they want to renovate their house, they can store their extra items to free up their space or declutter,” said Nageswar Midam, co-founder of Safe Storage.  Temporary storage “There are small e-commerce companies looking for space without much strings attached to it as maintaining a warehouse would involve costs and so they don’t want to maintain big warehouses. “There are small IT companies which are vacating their premises to reduce monthly maintenance and asking their employees to work from home. “There are other businesses like restaurants, playschools, etc., that are looking for temporary storage until the situation becomes better. We can provide storage space for all of them,” he added. The firm has already done a study to evaluate its business potential in the Chennai market and claims that the response was good. Explaining how the process works, Mr. Midam said, “We made the self-storage concept to suit the Indian customers where we will go to the customer's place, pack all their household items with packing materials like brown corrugated sheet, bubble wrap, wrapping film and carton boxes, transport these goods to our warehouse and stack them neatly on wooden pallets. “As of now we are not providing separate rooms but we have plans to extend it in future. We are keeping all the items in a common warehouse next to each other with barcodes to distinctly identify the customer items.” Currently, Safe Storage has 10 warehouses in Bengaluru and two in Hyderabad. “In the next five years, we would be expanding the business from the current 1 lakh sq ft to 5-10 lakh sq ft,” Mr. Midam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/storage-firm-makes-chennai-foray/article31998069.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rentals slashed but not many takers||Many houses in Chennai have been lying vacant for the last three months and owners are now approaching real estate brokers and informing that they are ready to further reduce the rent. Despite that there are no takers, say brokers in the business. Shankar, who has been in the real estate business for over 20 years now, said that there were instances where the owners slashed rentals by 10-20% and yet there were no takers. “In the case of big apartments even if the owners agree, the other tenants don’t want any new clients to come in to see the houses. Recently, a doctor approached me for a house and when I took him to see the house the other tenants disapproved,” said Shankar. According to him, many houses in T. Nagar, Alwarpet and Teynampet are lying vacant for over three months now. “Some house owners are voluntarily reducing rents for their tenants who have been with them for a long time. Due to this many people are not shifting houses,” he said. V. Veera from Kodambakkam, who has been in the business for 18 years now, said that earlier he used to get 10-15 calls per day for rentals. “During the lockdown, it is hardly one call a week,” he said. Those who had given commitment to move into new houses in March are still unable to move out and some have called agents and informed that they prefer staying in their old houses. Real estate agents indicate that if this situation continues for the next few months, rentals are likely to fall by 10-15%. The agents point out that there have been instances where people living in rented houses paying Rs. 40,000 and above are now looking for houses with a budget of Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rentals-slashed-but-still-not-many-takers/article31998065.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrol bunks adopt ‘no mask, no fuel’ policy||With the government relaxing lockdown norms in the State, fuel outlets have officially decided to sell fuel only to those wearing masks. Though this has been a practice in most retail outlets for over a month now, the dealers have made it official now. “Over 90% of our customers, including car and truck drivers, comply with the rules and follow physical distancing norms and wear masks. A small percentage, however, comes in with their masks in their pockets. In such cases, pump attendants request customers to wear them. But some two-wheeler riders create a ruckus. We refuse to serve such customers,” said a dealer. Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers’ Association president K.P. Murali said: “Taking into consideration the safety of our men and our customers, we are insisting that people use masks or kerchiefs to cover their mouth and nose while at the bunk”. There are a total of 4,800 bunks in the State. The association has also decided to ensure the presence of one staff member at the outlets, on Sundays, when bunks will remain shut due to the complete lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-bunks-adopt-no-mask-no-fuel-policy/article31998089.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayanthi is dean of Omandurar GH||R. Jayanthi has been posted as dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, with effect from July 3, according to an order issued by the Health Department. Dr. Jayanthi relieves R. Narayana Babu, the present dean. Dr. Jayanthi, who was earlier the dean of the Madras Medical College and its affiliated institution, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, had proceeded on leave from June 12, citing medical reasons. Dr. Narayana Babu has been promoted as Director of Medical Education. He had been holding the post of DME, as additional charge, for the past 10 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayanthi-is-dean-of-omandurar-gh/article31998087.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Merchant vessel rescues six SL fishermen||A merchant vessel m.v. YM Summit rescued six Sri Lankan fishermen from a capsized fishing boat around 170 nautical miles off Chennai in rough seas in coordination with the Indian Coast Guard’s Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC). On Sunday morning, as the crew of YM Summit, which was on its way to Visakhapatnam, saw a capsized fishing boat with six survivors atop. Following this, a message was relayed to the MRCC, Mumbai. The MRCC Chennai, which was alerted by its Mumbai counterpart, then coordinated the rescue operation. The six sailors were reportedly adrift at sea for the past four days and were identified as natives of Trincomalee, Sri Lanka. MRCC Chennai further coordinated with the Sri Lankan Deputy High Commission, Chennai, and MRCC Colombo to verify the credentials and arrange for their safe return to home, a Defence press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/merchant-vessel-rescues-6-sri-lankan-fishermen/article31998096.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stipend rules framed for junior lawyers||The State government has made it clear that junior lawyers who do not own a four-wheeler and whose family income is below Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum alone would be eligible for themonthly stipend of Rs. 3,000 to be given to newly enrolled lawyers for two years. According to a government order dated June 30, the applicants must be below 30 years of age on the date of application and must possess an Aadhaar card or some other identity proof, apart from being a resident of the State. It was made mandatory that their degree must be from a Government Law College and they must be enrolled with the Bar Council. BCTNP chairman P.S. Amalraj said applications open online (http://ams.bctnpy.com) from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stipend-rules-framed-for-junior-lawyers/article31998134.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Submit report to Centre on Devendrakula Vellalar: BJP||BJP State president L. Murugan on Saturday urged the Tamil Nadu government to immediately submit to the Centre the report on ‘Devendrakula Vellalar’ compiled by IAS officer Hansraj Varma who was appointed as the one-man commission in 2019. One of the main demands of a section of the community has been the renaming of seven Scheduled Castes in south Tamil Nadu as ‘Devendrakula Vellalar’. In a statement, Mr. Murugan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to fulfilling the demands and urged the State to expedite the process. “In May 2012, the BJP’s ‘Thamarai Sangamam’ conference passed a resolution demanding that the Scheduled Caste communities of Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadaiyar, Devendrakulathar, Pallar and Vadhiriyar be grouped as ‘Devendrakula Vellar’. In August 2015, Amit Shah, the BJP’s national president then, supported the demand while participating at a conference organised by the community members. In September 2015, 101 representatives of the community met Mr. Modi and presented a petition,” Mr. Murugan recalled. The BJP’s manifesto for the 2016 Assembly elections had said the seven communities should be called ‘Devendrakula Vellalar’. “Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami had accepted the petition in 2017 and said the demands would be considered. A report was compiled by Madras University’s Anthropology Department head S. Sumathy and submitted to the State as mentioned by her in a letter in 2018. When I was the vice-chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, I had said at a press conference in Madurai that the Commission had accepted the demands and the State government must send a recommendation,” he said. Mr. Murugan pointed out that Mr. Modi also spoke in support of the demands at the function to lay the foundation for the AIIMS, Madurai, in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-report-to-centre-on-devendrakula-vellalar-bjp/article31998419.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to operate counters for filing hard copies||After having decided to continue functioning through virtual mode for a few more weeks due to the lockdown, the Madras High Court on Saturday informed lawyers that separate counters and drop boxes will be installed on the court campus from Monday for filing hard copies of case papers besides forwarding them to the Registry by e-mail. The arrangement has been made since many judges insist on hard copies. The Registry stated that the counters would function from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on all working days. Drop boxes Case papers should be tied along with filing slips and dropped into the boxes after obtaining due acknowledgement on one of the copies of the filing slip from the personnel manning the counters. “The case papers so filed will be taken up for further course of action only after a day of quarantine in order to give sufficient time for the COVID-19 virus to become extinct. No hard copies/case papers shall be returned physically under any circumstances during this lockdown period or till the normal case filing is restored, except with the leave of the honourable court.  Guidelines “Attendees to the filing counter shall adhere to all necessary guidelines issued by the Government of India and Government of Tamil Nadu on the restrictions to prevent COVID-19 viral infection and also ensure that the bearer of the case papers shall not be the resident of a hot spot area/containment zone notified by the local body concerned,” the notification read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-operate-counters-for-filing-hard-copies/article31998104.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Milk packets stolen in TNHB complex||Some residents of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) complex in Avadi have complained that milk packets go missing from the bags kept in front of their homes. According to them, there are over 6,000 houses in the Avadi TNHB complex. Over the past few days the milk packets, that are dropped in the bags by the milkman, have been missing. “This has been happening for many months. But many were under the assumption that the milk man was not delivering the packets properly,” said Ganesh Babu, a social activist living in the housing board complex. On Saturday, some of the residents complained to the milk man and he said that he had been delivering it every day. “We then checked the CCTV footage and to our surprise we found a man, with his face covered, stealing the milk packets from the bag,” he added. “As of now we have not complained to the police. But we will do so soon. We will also try to nab the thief ourselves. He must be from the neighbouring area,” said A. Dharanidharan, organiser, Avadi TNHB Kootamaipu Sangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-packets-stolen-in-tnhb-complex/article31998059.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal country-made firearms seized in Vellore||The Vellore police on Sunday seized illegal country-made firearms at Thongumalai, Thekkumarathur, Palampattu and Sengadu Hill villages. The raids were carried out by four teams, according to a statement. The teams seized two country- made single barrel muzzle load guns from Sengadu village and arrested accused Periyasamy, under provisions of the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-country-made-firearms-seized-in-vellore/article31998101.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner terms lockdown a success||Total lockdown helped the Greater Chennai Corporation to ramp up testing and effectively detect symptomatic cases as most people stayed home, said Commissioner G. Prakash. In a release, Mr. Prakash said: “The tracing of contacts during the lockdown was more effective and we did it swiftly.” “Most of the COVID-19 patients were asymptomatic. Scores of persons who would have been earlier infected and in the incubating cycle, remained indoors and the spread from them was, to a great extent, avoided. Yes, lockdown has been a definite hit,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-commissioner-terms-lockdown-a-success/article31998046.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Order CBI to probe transfer of Chief Engineer: Stalin||Opposition leader M.K. Stalin on Sunday challenged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to order a CBI inquiry into the transfer of the Chief Engineer of the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration and replace him with another engineer, who is on extension. “Since the Chief Minister always says that he is ready for any inquiry let him order a CBI inquiry. If the Chief Minister is not ready for it, the Centre, through the CBI, can initiate an inquiry, since it is getting funding from them,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said the transfer of Mr. Natarajan was shocking, especially when he was in-charge of projects with a collective value of about Rs. 12,000 crore, including the Smart Cities Mission. “Though it is not new that IAS officials and others, who could not cooperate with Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, to face transfers, this illegal change has paved the way for corruption in 121 municipalities and 15 municipal corporations,” Mr. Stalin alleged. He said Mr. Natarajan was replaced by Mr. Pugazhendhi and it was against rules since engineers from the Chennai Municipal Corporation should not be appointed as the Chief Engineer of the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration. “Mr. Pugazhendi was due to retire in June 2016 but was given an extension and made Principal Engineer as per the letter written by the Chennai Corporation Commissioner. This happened only in his case and on the grounds that he was in-charge of projects worth Rs. 5,000 crore. After getting four extensions, now he has been made the Chief Engineer,” the DMK president said. A thorough investigation was necessary to find out whether the move was a proper one, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-cbi-to-probe-transfer-of-chief-engineer-stalin/article31998076.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage in stormwater drains irk Chennai residents||The growing number of COVID-19 cases in the localities managed by municipalities and panchayats in the southern parts of the city has brought to the fore the neglect in executing regular civic works like cleaning stormwater drains and disinfection of the canals by sanitary workers. The stormwater drain network meant for preventing flooding has not been desilted during the past month, leading to spread of mosquitoes, complained residents in Pallavaram. V. Santhanam, a resident welfare activist of Chromepet, rued the dumping of sewage into the stormwater drains and added that officials of the Pallavaram Municipality had not taken action against offenders. Several stretches of the stormwater drain network including the open canal flowing in Gandhi Nagar, streets of Radha Nagar, and from MIT to Nemilichery in Hasthinapuram, which flowed into the Veeraraghavan Eri, were clogged plastic, Mr. Santhanam said. He said that despite commissioning of an underground drainage network, wastewas being illegally dumped into the open stormwater drains. Residents in Pammal Municipality also complained about lack of desilting in Shankar Nagar during the past month. However, a senior municipal official said desilting of stormwater drains would be undertaken in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-in-stormwater-drains-irk-chennai-residents/article31998074.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Absconder surrenders||Purushotamman, who was absconding in connection with the suicide case in Chengalpattu, surrendered on Sunday. A woman of Nainarkuppam in Kancheepuram district reportedly ended her life on June 24. The family tried to bury the body but the Cheyyur police recovered it and sent it to Madurantakam Government Hospital for post-mortem. During investigation, the police found that she was in a relationship with Purushotamman, her cousin. Her family fixed her marriage with another man. The police have altered the case from that of suspicious death to abetment to suicide. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/absconder-surrenders/article31998061.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New appointments||Makkal Needhi Maiam on Sunday appointed Kameela Nassar, Mayilsami G., A. Renganathan, Premnath, Sripathi and Gandhi Kannadasan as state secretaries. In a statement, party’s founder Kamal Haasan said the new appointments were made in the run up to the 2021 assembly elections and to ensure coordinated efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-appointments/article31998078.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report on deaths submitted||The nine-member expert committee formed to study the reason for deaths due to COVID-19 in the city submitted its report to the State government on Sunday. According to T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, the report will be uploaded on the Health Department website after the government’s perusal. The committee was formed to “reconcile the COVID-19 death reports, with regard to the Greater Chennai Corporation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-deaths-submitted/article31998090.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases withdrawn||A group of civil contractors have withdrawn writ petitions filed by them in the Madras HC challenging the award of State highways and other road maintenance contracts for larger stretches ranging from 400 to 500 km and for a longer duration of five years. Consequently, the State government too withdrew its writ appeal challenging an interim order passed by a single judge in one of those writ petitions restricting the government from proceeding further after open technical bids received for maintenance of roads in Thanjavur. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy permitted the govt. to withdraw its appeal after it was brought to their notice that Justice R. Mahadevan had permitted the contractors to withdraw the writ petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-contracts-cases-withdrawn/article31998105.ece
06 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Bomb hoax at Vijay’s house||A hoax call was received at the police control room on Saturday night claiming that bombs were planted in the house of actor Vijay at Saligramam. The control room received the call around 12.15 a.m. The Virugambakkam police were alerted and the bomb disposal squad was rushed to his house. After checking, the bomb disposal squad declared it as a hoax. Meanwhile, the police traced the call to Marakkanam in Villupuram. The police said the person who made the call was mentally challenged. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bomb-hoax-at-vijays-house/article31998054.ece
06 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Man threatens to jump from mobile tower after police seize his two wheeler||A man climbed up a mobile tower in Gummidipoondi and threatened to jump after police seized his motorbike on Sunday. Arambakkam police seized Raja’s vehicle near Sunnambukulam. Angered over this, Raja climbed the mobile tower and threatened to jump if the police did not return the vehicle. The police convinced him to get down and promised to return the vehicle. He was let off with a warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-threatens-to-jump-from-mobile-tower-after-police-seize-his-two-wheeler/article31998077.ece
06 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rectified spirit worth Rs. 40 lakh seized in Chengalpattu||Police officers from Chengalpattu intercepted a truck, after a chase, and seized 6,000 litres of rectified spirit estimated at Rs. 40 lakh that was being smuggled into the district from Villupuram on Saturday night. According to the police, personnel from Orathi police station were conducting vehicle checks in their jurisdiction when a truck sped past them. They found the truck abandoned near Nedungal junction. The vehicle had a fake registration number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rectified-spirit-worth-rs-40-lakh-seized-in-chengalpattu/article31998066.ece
06 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||River Noyyal Rejuvenation Scheme to benefit over 36,000 acre||The Rs. 230-crore River Noyyal Rejuvenation Scheme will benefit farmers in over 36,304 acre. An important highlight of the Scheme would be the automation of the operation of opening and closing sluice gates at the Chithirai Chavadi and Kuniamuthur anaicuts, said sources in the Public Works Department’s Water Resource Organisation (WRO). At the touch of a button the WRO could open or close the gates at the two anaicuts. At present, it sent its lascars to manually open the gates. The Chithirai Chavadi anaicut regulated flow of waters to the Pudukulam, Kolarampathi, Narasampathi, Krishnampathi, Selvampathi, Kumarasamy (Muthannan), Selva Chinthamani, Periyakulam and Valangulam tanks. And, the Kuniamuthur anaicut fed Perur Periyakulam, Kuniamuthur Sengulam, Chinnakulam, Sottaiandikuttai and Ganga Narayanasamudram tanks. Though there were 23 anaicuts in the Noyyal basin, the WRO had taken up 18 of those under the Scheme as it had repaired and restored the rest under the Kudimaramathu Scheme. Likewise, the WRO had included to maintenance 22 of the 31 tanks in the basin – 17 in Coimabtore district and the rest in Tiruppur district. The 17 excluded the nine tanks that the Coimbatore Corporation had under its control. As a part of the Scheme, the organisation would also regulate water flow in River Noyyal and modernise the Padithurai in Perur, the sources said and added that it had proposed to take up the Scheme in three packages - the first from the origin of River Noyyal to the 34th km (Kurichi Anaicut), the second from the 34th km to 72nd km (Semmandampalayam) and the third from the 72nd km to the point where it joined River Cauvery in Noyyal village in Karur district. Once completed, the WRO would be able to regulate water flow as per farmers’ request to the ayacut and help recharge groundwater around the city. The sources further said that the WRO had started the work by marking the River and tank boundaries using surveyors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/river-noyyal-rejuvenation-scheme-to-benefit-over-36000-acre/article31998107.ece
06 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Thatched houses renovated||Thirty-five thatched houses of Malasar tribal community at Rottigounden Pudur near Coimbatore were renovated.  Rotary Club of Coimbatore Meridian renovated 21 huts and donated 15 bicycles to schoolchildren. It also had plans to provide skill training for women from the community. Another 14 huts were renovated under the aegis of Journalist Avinashilingam Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thatched-houses-renovated/article31998138.ece
06 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees poor SW Monsoon rain in June||South West Monsoon that was expected to bring rain to Coimbatore has thus far brought only disappointment as the rain the district received was less than normal and what was predicted for this year. The district received 22.5 mm rainfall in June, the first of the four-month Monsoon season, said SP. Ramanathan, Professor and Head, Agro Climate Research Centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The Centre had predicted 38 mm rainfall in June based on the last 50 years’ rainfall data for the district during the SW Monsoon season. For the entire SW Monsoon period – from June to September – it had predicted 189.6 mm rainfall, which it said was normal. The rainfall in July would be 40 mm, August 40.9 mm and September 70.7 mm. Mr. Ramanathan said though the Monsoon rain in June was less than what the Centre had predicted there was no room for disappointment as the district would see more rain in July and the two months thereafter. The 2019 SW Monsoon season too had started on a similar fashion, with June 2019 seeing only 21 mm rainfall. But at the end of the season in September, the district had received 308 mm, with August 2019 alone seeing 221.3 mm, which was unprecedented. The Indian Meteorological Department forecast for Coimbatore too was on the Centre’s lines and the district would see good rain in the coming weeks, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-poor-sw-monsoon-rain-in-june/article31998108.ece
06 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Complex heart surgery performed on infant||A nine-month-old boy with a rare congenital heart condition was discharged from a private hospital here recently following a successful surgery. According to a release from Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, a team of doctors placed the baby, hailing from Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district, in an artificial respiratory support as part of the resuscitative measures when he stopped breathing. The baby was diagnosed with congenital condition called Tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary atresia, which affects seven out of one lakh infants in the world. The condition is characterised by a large hole in the heart and a complete obstruction to flow of blood from the heart to the lungs. After about 10 days of observation, the boy was found to be stable and was discharged recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complex-heart-surgery-performed-on-infant/article31998117.ece
06 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA tests positive||Coimbatore south MLA ‘Amman’ K. Arjunan tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. He was admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. Swab samples of Mr. Arjunan, his wife, and a few others were collected for testing after his daughter, son-in-law, and granddaughter tested positive for the disease last week. Sources said that a swab sample of the AIADMK legislator that was collected initially tested negative. However, the result of a repeat test returned positive. Others from his family and close aides were asked to remain in home quarantine after their swab samples tested negative for the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-tests-positive/article31998132.ece
06 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||Mirakle Wellness Clinic is supplying the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department of Coimbatore district with 15-day supply of Mirakle Drink to aid 250 frontline workers. According to a press release, Mirakle is a liposomal drink with Vitamin C, Lysine, and Proline buffered with Phospholipids in a special process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article31998110.ece
06 July 2020||COIMBATORE/tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two die of COVID-19 in Coimbatore, one in Tiruppur||Two persons from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 late on Saturday. A 57-year-old man from Ganapthy in Coimbatore died of the disease at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital late on Saturday. He was admitted to the hospital on June 28. The man was also suffering from Type 2 diabetes, heart problems and systemic arterial hypertension, according to the Health Department. The other person who died of COVID-19 was identified as a 65-year-old man from Big Bazaar Street. He was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore where he died around midnight, said Health Department sources. They said that standard operating procedure was followed for the packing of the bodies. With this, the number of persons who died of COVID-19 in the district increased to four. A 44-year-old man from Kavundampalayam who died at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Chennai, on May 3 and a 28-year-old man from R.G. Pudur who died on June 14 are the other two cases. Death of another person hailing from Palakkad was cross-notified to Kerala. Two COVID-19 patients from Madurai also died at a private hospital here. Tiruppur district witnessed its second COVID-19 death on Sunday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that a 75-year-old man from Subramaniam Chettiar Street in Tiruppur Corporation limits, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Coimbatore, died. All of the deceased’s contacts have tested negative, he said in a tweet. On June 24, an ‘108’ ambulance worker from Mangalam died at ESI Hospital, Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-of-covid-19-in-coimbatore-one-in-tiruppur/article31998131.ece
06 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Death toll in boiler blast rises to nine||C. Ravichandran, 51, a permanent employee of NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), who had suffered severe burns in a boiler blast in Unit V of Thermal Power Station-II in Neyveli on July 1, succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Chennai on Sunday evening, taking the death toll to nine. Earlier, G. Selvaraj, 51, a worker attached to the Industrial Cooperative Service Society (Indcoserve) died on Sunday morning. Ravichandran, a junior engineer and Selvaraj, along with 14 others including an executive, two supervisors, three non-executive employees and contract workmen, were admitted to Apollo Hospital in Chennai with severe burns following the incident. The tragedy occurred when the employees and workers attempted to revive the boiler after it had tripped on Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-toll-in-boiler-blast-rises-to-nine/article31998067.ece
06 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL, Coal India sign pact||NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL), a Navaratna undertaking, has inked an agreement with Coal India Ltd., a Maharatna public sector undertaking (PSU) to form a Joint Venture Company to develop solar and thermal power assets with a capacity of 5,000 MW. The agreement was signed by N.N.M. Rao, Director (Planning and Projects), NLCIL, and Binay Dayal, Director (Technical), Coal India Ltd., in the presence of Rakesh Kumar, NLCIL CMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-coal-india-sign-pact/article31998100.ece
06 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents worried over garbage collection in containment zones||With many COVID-19 positive cases being reported and thousands of families under home quarantine in the Corporation limits, residents expressed concern over collection and disposal of municipal solid waste from the households in containment zones by the civic body. Collected wastes are segregated manually at each zone and are taken to the compost yard at Vendipalayam. Valayakarar Street and Rajajipuram are the two containment zones in the city, and barricades are placed outside the houses and apartments where positive cases were reported and the entry and exit is restricted. The residents living near the home quarantined areas said that the waste collected from the quarantined houses and from other households were dumped together in the garbage collection vehicle. “Masks, gloves and other household wastes from quarantined houses are handled by workers without any protective equipment,” said a resident at Sampath Nagar. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that waste from houses where positive cases were reported were collected in yellow bags in separate vehicles and transported to the compost yard and buried deeply. Solid waste was collected and disposed of effectively both from the containment areas and the quarantined houses. Medical waste Meanwhile, the residents of Thottampatti in the city submitted a petition to the district administration stating that a few private hospitals were dumping medical waste in a quarry in their locality. The issue was taken up with the corporation officials last week after which they inspected the quarry and confirmed the presence of medical waste. However, no action was taken against the hospitals or the quarry owner so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-worried-over-garbage-collection-in-containment-zones/article31998109.ece
06 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A day that saw total compliance with lockdown norms||Most of the arterial roads and streets in Madurai wore a deserted look on Sunday as residents stayed indoors in compliance with the complete lockdown. Except for a few two-wheelers, the roads were completely free of vehicles. All shops, vegetable markets and even petrol pumps remained closed. “Usually, huge crowds throng the vegetable markets every day and meat markets during weekends. The complete lockdown helped in preventing crowding at least for a day,” said the president of Central Market Wholesale Vegetable Vendors’ Association P.S. Murugan. A corporation health official said it was only on Sunday that residents completely followed the lockdown norms. “If people extend their cooperation for the next one week by avoiding crowding at public places, COVID-19 spread can be contained to an extent,” he said. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said the total lockdown helped health workers of fever camps to trace cases in a better manner. It also helped in intensive disinfection at the residences of COVID-19 positive patients. The week ahead With the further extension of complete lockdown in Corporation limits, Paravai town panchayat, and village panchayats in Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks till July 12, only essential services are allowed to function in these places. A government order, issued on Saturday, said the complete lockdown enforced in these areas from June 24 helped in controlling the COVID-19 outbreak to an extent, prompting to extend the complete lockdown by a week. Hospitals, medical labs, pharmacies, ambulance and medical-allied activities will be allowed. Vegetable shops, grocery shops and petrol pumps will operate with strict enforcement of personal distancing norms from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. People intending to buy essential commodities shall avoid travelling by vehicles and purchase from shops located within 1.5 km from their residences. Autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles will be allowed only for medical emergencies. However, prepaid auto, taxi and private vehicles will be allowed to ferry passengers from railway stations and airports, if they have an e-pass. Residents can collect takeaways from restaurants between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Customers can place orders over phone, but delivery persons must possess identity cards issued by their organisations. Tea shops are not permitted to function. Daily movement of workers from the areas where the complete lockdown is enforced is not allowed. Industries can accommodate workers within the premises for the seven days. Ration shops will function from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. State and Central government departments will function with a maximum of 33% of the staff. Curfew orders which prevailed before June 24 in Corporation limits and other areas shall remain in force from July 13 to July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-day-that-saw-total-compliance-with-lockdown-norms/article31998404.ece
06 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Infections on the wane in Paravai||Ten days of intensified lockdown in Paravai town panchayat has helped the administration prioritise containment. In the last week, only six persons from the area tested positive, say officials. Paravai town panchayat, which lies in the periphery of Madurai city, has 15 wards and a population of 20,042. A total of 28 people have tested positive for COVID-19 from the area out of which 17 have been discharged and 11 are undergoing treatment. An official said the first few cases were recorded in the town panchayat when traders and shopkeepers in Annai Meenakshi Nagar, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) Colony and Porkodam Nagar in Ward 7 began testing positive around mid-June. Collector T.G. Vinay called for the closure of the market on June 15 after a trader and his family tested positive. Soon, Paravai wholesale vegetable market, under the control of the Madurai Corporation, was seen as a cluster. Retail shopkeepers who visited the market also began to test positive. Apart from small-scale grocery shop owners, three policemen who worked at Samayanallur police station and a medical officer from Vadipatti block tested positive. To ensure minimum spread, eight containment zones were created in Paravai, including one in Muniyandi Koil Street in Sathiyamoorthy Nagar, an area located a little away from Paravai. None of them have been removed yet. “We barricade and disinfect the streets, provide groceries door-to-door as part of our containment measures," an official said. A recovered patient, who was among the first to test positive from AIBEA Colony, says that basic kitchen condiments are made available to them on time which is a relief to them as they cannot step outside. “Health workers also come and check whether we are doing okay now. It’s been a scary experience but we are fine and are happy to say we survived the virus,” he said. N. Nagarajan, who lives near Muniyandi Koil Street, says there was no containment zone there till Friday though two residents who tested positive were undergoing treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital. “The barricading began only two days ago after we raised the issue. No one is allowed to drive in or out,” he says. Resident of Mandhaiyan Street, P. Rajeswari, says health workers came every Monday to her area to check on fever cases. Currently, 40 health workers - 20 nursing students, 10 former dengue breeding checkers and 10 civic staff and PHC staff - take turns around the 15 blocks to check on symptoms in people. “Apart from Madurai Corporation, Paravai was the only part of the district which was under intensified lockdown. We have a population that includes travellers from Dindigul and Sivaganga, adding to the possibility of disease spread. We wish to ensure that there are zero cases in Paravai soon,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infections-on-the-wane-in-paravai/article31998402.ece
06 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online classes: as novelty fades, concern grows||With the closure of schools owing to COVID-19 pandemic, online classes have become the new norm for students of private schools in Madurai. The schools have a mix of live and pre-recorded classes for students from kindergarten to Class 12. However, there are growing concerns among parents and teachers regarding online safety and health impacts of the virtual teacher-student interface. A section of parents and teachers says online classes help in keeping the students engaged during lockdown. “This way they also keep in touch with the subjects,” says R. Santhosh Kanna, a parent. However, many others feel online classes might have a long-term effect on the children’s health. S. Bhuvana, a parent of a Class 3 student of a CBSE school, says her son complains of eye strain after attending online classes. “If online classes continue for many more months, then it will have profound health complications. All these days we have been telling our children to stay away from gadgets, but ironically we now ask them to use them,” she says. Since video can be muted, many students tend to lie down on bed or have a bad posture while attending classes, she adds. While some students use laptops or tablets, a majority of them use smart phones to attend these sessions, aggravating eye-strain, says K. Saravanan, Headmaster of Dr. T. Thirugnanam Primary School. The pop-up advertisements and links appearing during the online classes are not appropriate for children, says Victoria Gnana Deborah, whose two children study at a matriculation school. “This prompts for continuous parent surveillance, which becomes difficult when classes are held for many hours,” she adds. Students lose their attention easily. “Since their outdoor activities are restricted due to the lockdown, they are also disinterested in attending classes,” she adds. Online classes can never replace a normal classroom and rather it only increases the stress of students, says C. Indira Pandiarajan, a Headmistress and member of Global Nursery and Primary Schools’ Association. “When children, especially those studying in primary classes, are engaged in online classes, their thinking skill is affected. It also impacts them psychologically. A normal classroom is where a child learns social behaviour,” she adds. Parents say the duration and number of classes must be reduced “During testing times like these, at least students below Class 6 should be exempted from online classes,” says Ms. Bhuvana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-as-novelty-fades-concern-grows/article31998418.ece
06 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil-Brahmi and Vattezhuttu inscriptions found at Kinnimangalam||A Tamil-Brahmi inscription was found on a broken pillar of Ekanathan Mutt at the village of Kinnimangalam, located around 20 km from Madurai, on June 29 by a group of art historians and enthusiasts. K. T. Gandhirajan, an art historian who undertakes research and documentation of historical monuments across Tamil Nadu, said that he chanced upon the inscription while conducting research at a mutt in Kinnimangalam. The stone reads ‘Ekan Athan Kottam’ which refers to the name of the mutt, he said. He added that the stone on which the inscription was written was around 2.5 feet in length and 1 foot in width. Mr. Gandhirajan said that the inscription could be over 2,000 years old and that they had found artefacts transcending different eras including the Sangam period, the Nayak and the Pandya period and the British period. “The mutt seems to have been a place where education took place and martial arts was taught. It also seems like it was along a trade route to the capital -- Madurai, making it a transit point for several travellers. According to oral traditions from the head of the mutt that exist till date, the area seems like a sanctum for scholars with the cloak of religion,” he said. At the same site, another Vattezhuttu inscription that dates to a medieval period, was also found. This inscription was on a stone slab. It reads “Iraiyiliyaga EkanAtan Pallippatai Mandali IntAr.” It perhaps refers to some donation to the burial temple of Ekanathan in the later period, Mr. Gandhirajan said. Mr. Gandhirajan’s team, including two history enthusiasts C. Raja Vel and Ananthan Sannasi, also found brassware, designer pots, wooden boxes and colonial era artefacts in the area. Further research is necessary to understand the importance of these inscriptions and the history of the village, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-brahmi-vattezhuttu-inscriptions-found/article31998389.ece
06 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Head constable dies of infection||A head constable attached to Seithur Rural police station, who was admitted to the COVID-19 ward here, died on Sunday. Police said the deceased, Ayyanar, who was station writer at Seithur Rural police station in Virudhunagar district, had fever from June 26 and was on leave. On June 1, he applied for medical leave as the fever did not subside. Subsequently, he underwent a swab test. With symptoms of COVID-19, he was taken to Sattur government hospital where a COVID-19 special ward was set up for police personnel on July 2. As his health condition worsened, he was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai the same day. However, he did not respond to treatment, police said. Seventeen police personnel in Virudhunagar district had been infected with the virus. Three of them had been discharged till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-dies-of-infection/article31998393.ece
06 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner of Police takes charge||Prem Anand Sinha, the new Commissioner of Police of Madurai City, assumed charge on Sunday. A 2001-batch Indian Police Service officer, Mr. Sinha succeeds S. Davidson Devasirvatham, who has been transferred and posted as Additional Director General of Police (Technical Services). Mr. Sinha has hitherto, Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Chennai City. After assuming office on Sunday, Mr. Sinha said, “Government alone cannot take up installing closed circuit television camera network as deterrence for crime in the city,” he said appealing to people to come forward to install CCTVs in their homes and junctions. Mr. Sinha, who started his career as Assistant Superintendent of Police in Devakottai, has been Superintendent of Police in Perumbalur and Kancheepuram districts and Deputy Commissioner of Police in Chennai City. He has served in Narcotics Control Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-of-police-takes-charge/article31998416.ece
06 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Four weighing stones excavated at Keeladi||Four weighing stones of varying sizes, all spherical and black in colour, have been excavated from Keeladi as part of the sixth phase of the ongoing archaeological excavation. R. Sivanandam, Deputy Director of the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology, said that these weighing stones were found near a furnace, along with iron, copper objects and glass slag, indicating the possibility of the existence of trading activity. These stones were of various sizes — weighing 300g, 150g, 18g and 8g. They were all made out of basalt. All the stones have a flat base and a polished surface. The stones were excavated between June 20 and July 3. Mr. Sivanandam said that the stones were found near a furnace, with traces of firing activity. Charcoal was commonly found in all the levels the stones were excavated from. Copper, iron objects and beads made out of different materials, including glass, were also found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-weighing-stones-excavated-at-keeladi/article31998414.ece
06 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Huge COVID-19 care centre near MK University soon||The Information Technology Park at Vadapalanji will be converted into the district's fifth COVID-19 care centre in two weeks, Collector T. G. Vinay told The Hindu on Sunday. He said the IT park already had a sound structure in place and only required cots, bedding and better light fittings. It could accommodate 1,100 patients with asymptomatic or mild symptoms, without any comorbidities. It would be the biggest COVID-19 care centre in the district. Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar and the Collector inspected it on Saturday. “It is close to Madurai Kamaraj University where patients are already undergoing treatment. It is large and spacious too and will help in decongesting tertiary centres. The other COVID-19 care centres are functioning at Madurai Kamaraj University, Tamil Nadu Agricultural College, Yadava College and Thiagarajar College of Engineering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/huge-covid-19-care-centre-near-mk-university-soon/article31998398.ece
06 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Astronaut-in-waiting reaches out to needy||For D. Udhayakeerthika, 21, who wishes to literally reach the stars, philanthropy during COVID-19 pandemic, came naturally. The student, who is all set to undergo pilot training in Delhi after completing a rigorous astronaut training course in Poland’s Analog Astronaut Training Center and bachelor’s at Ivan Kozhedub National Air Force University in Ukraine, is distributing essentials to 400 families in need at her hometown at Allinagaram, two kms from Theni. She says her father, who paints billboards for a living and her mother who works as a typist in a lawyer’s office, can not afford to pay for her education. Her dreams of being an astronaut have been fulfilled till date through crowdfunding. “At every stage of my education, particularly going to Ukraine and Poland, required funds in lakhs. Thousands, including famous personalities in the field of cinema, music and many other good Samaritans, came forward to help,” she said. When COVID-19 struck, she was waiting to begin pilot training in Delhi but had to return. “When I came back to Theni, I saw many who were in need of help. Many did not even have a single meal. Since, I too have struggled in my life to purchase books and also for my education, I could empathise with the struggle,” she said. She had saved up money from crowdfunding and, after getting permission from donors, decided to use around Rs. 4 lakh to help 400 families with essentials. “Even if we cannot help everyone, we can try to help a few,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/astronaut-in-waiting-reaches-out-to-families-in-need-in-theni-district/article31998396.ece
06 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 test results go online||Results of COVID-19 tests taken at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Primary Health Centres (PHC), Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC), checkposts, railway station and the airport in the district are being uploaded on the Madurai Medical College’s website. The website currently has results of tests taken on July 1, July 3 and July 4 under the ‘downloads’ section of the website,mdmc.ac.in. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said they received several suggestions seeking better communication of test results. “People would ask whether or not they tested positive. This is now an easier means. It will also reduce the anxiety of people waiting to know the results," he said. The GRH began this exercise on Saturday. Collector T G. Vinay said that this exercise would help in faster and a more transparent means of providing information to the public. “When someone tests positive, they immediately come to know about it as we contact them and shift them to different healthcare facilities. Sometimes, there is a delay in conveying this information to those who test negative. Through the website, information will now reach quickly," he said. Although the data currently specifies the name and age of those from whom swabs have been collected, it will be rectified from Monday onwards. The Collector said patients can check the results based on their Test ID provided in the sample registration form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-test-results-go-online/article31998407.ece
06 July 2020||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s tally crosses 4,000 mark as 308 test positive||A total of 308 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 4,085. More antenatal mothers and frontline workers continued to test positive. More influenza-like illness cases than contacts of positive patients were among the new cases. While five patients died on Sunday, 54 persons were discharged from hospitals. The death toll in the district stands at 62. For the second consecutive day, the number of fresh cases in Virudhunagar district went past 100, and reached 113. The district’s tally is 895. On Sunday, 39 patients were discharged, and there are 502 active cases. Meanwhile, the death of a 39-year-old man from Virudhunagar was reported at Government Headquarters Hospital in Kancheepuram. With this, the number of deaths in the district has risen to eight. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli district reported 48 new cases – all indigenous – which took the tally to 1,030. So far, 671 persons have been discharged from hospitals. Thoothukudi’s tally rose to 1,162 with 42 fresh cases reported on Sunday. A 73-year-old patient from KVK Nagar died. In Tenkasi, 40 new positive cases were recorded and the tally stands at 448. Kanniyakumari reported eight fresh cases, with which the number of positive cases went up to 560. Theni Theni’s tally crossed the 1,000 mark to stand at 1,009, with the 24 new cases recorded on Sunday. A hundred persons were discharged from hospital. The fresh cases – 13 men and 11 women – were from Cumbum (5), Andipatti (5), Chinnamanur (3), Bodinayakkanur (4), Periyakulam (4) and Theni (3). In Dindigul, 71 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 704. Most cases were from Natham (20), Nilakottai (29) and Dindigul (6). Ramanathapuram The fresh case count in Ramanathapuram was 93, which saw the tally touch 1,385. Officials attributed to the rise in the number of positive cases to intensified testing. Sivaganga Sivaganga district, which was at the 10th position among the southern districts, moved up to the ninth slot as 87 persons tested positive on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 512.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurais-tally-crosses-4000-mark-as-308-test-positive/article31998409.ece
06 July 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Fire at ATM centre||A fire occurred at an ATM centre near Puduchatiram here on Sunday. Bid to burgle According topolice, the fire occurred when unidentified persons, who had attempted to burgle the ATM, used gas cutters to break open the machine and it led to short circuit. Over Rs. 2 lakh placed inside the machine was burnt in the incident, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-atm-centre/article31998137.ece
06 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||People told to maintain safety norms||District Collector K. Megraj on Saturday visited persons quarantined at a government facility near Manikampalayam here. According to officials, about 72 persons who have travelled to Namakkal from other districts and States have been quarantined here. He also enquired with quarantined persons regarding facilities at the centre. Mr. Megraj advised public to inform revenue and local body officials if persons travelled from other places to their neighbourhood. He also advised public to wear masks while venturing out in public and maintain physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-told-to-maintain-safety-norms/article31998128.ece
06 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||43 covid cases in UT||Puducherry recorded 43 COVID-19 cases, including 10 in Yanam enclave, on Sunday. Among the new patients, 28 were women and 15 men. And, while 29 were in the 18-60 age group, 11 were below 18 years and three above 60, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-covid-cases-in-ut/article31998070.ece
06 July 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s recovery rate at 56%: CM||The Union Territory has recorded a recovery rate of about 56 per cent since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Sunday. Addressing a virtual press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said the 14 deaths so far represented a mortality rate of 1.4 per cent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherrys-recovery-rate-at-56-cm/article31998072.ece
06 July 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Father, relative detained under Goondas Act for murdering minor girl||The father of a 13-year-old girl and a relative who were arrested in Gandharvakottai limits during May after her murder, in a suspected case of human sacrifice, were detained under the Goondas Act on Saturday. K. Paneer (42), the father, and the relative P. Kumar (32) were detained under the Goondas Act on the order of the District Collector P. Uma Maheswari. The Gandarvakottai police had also arrested K. Vasanthi - a soothsayer and her assistant M. Murugayee in connection with the murder case. The minor girl was allegedly murdered by her father Panneer on the advice of Vasanthi, who claimed to him that the act would make him wealthy and prosperous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-relative-detained-under-goondas-act-for-murdering-minor-girl/article31998452.ece
06 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to Centre for relief measures||The Association of aided technical polytechnics in Tamil Nadu has written to the Prime Minister requesting for cash relief measures for students and institutions here to overcome the COVID-19 crisis. According to the petition, the Association requested the Centre to offer soft loans for students to pay their education fees and to purchase computers for online education.   It also requested a grant of Rs. 50,000 crore as an one-time relief for higher technical education institutions through banks as soft loans for their sustainability. Interest-free loans The association sought interest-free soft loans to pay salaries of the staff and grants to meet operational expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appeal-to-centre-for-relief-measures/article31998136.ece
06 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmer dies in gaur attack||A farmer, who was attacked by a gaur near Vazhapadi here, died at hospital on Sunday. According to forest officials, the deceased was identified as Ramalingam (60). The incident happened on Saturday evening at his farm land which lies adjacent to forest area. He was rushed to a private hospital and was later taken to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital where he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-dies-in-gaur-attack/article31998115.ece
06 July 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Call for suspension of jamabandhi||Members of Village Administrative Officers Association here have appealed to Collector J. Jayakanthan to reconsider the conduct of jamabandhi-related works in the district. After holding a consultative meeting with the members, the association has urged for suspension of jamabandhi. Though the State government had in an announcement stated that the applications for jamabandhi could be sent online, staff from different villages had to visit the Revenue Divisional Office and Tahsildar's offices from far away locations with documents. On July 1, a Revenue Inspector in the region tested positive. Instead of going ahead with the works, officials can be instructed to focus totally on COVID-19 prevention. When the pandemic subsided, jamabandhi could be resumed and completed at a faster pace without any apprehension, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-suspension-of-jamabandhi/article31998397.ece
06 July 2020||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extension will hit industries hard: trade body||The 'unilateral' decision of the State government to extend the lockdown by one more week beginning July 6 for Madurai has come in for severe criticism. Attributing to the rise in the number of COVID-19 patients testing positive in Madurai, the Chief Secretary had through a G.O., directed to shut shops for another seven days ending July 12. When many cities, including Chennai, had more number of COVID-19 patients, the government had relaxed the lockdown norms there, why Madurai had been neglected, asked. B Muruganantham, president, Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). Why Madurai? In a letter to K. Gopal, Principal Secretary -Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises), he said when the number of cases were at least 10 times higher in Chennai than Madurai, why the government extended the lockdown in Madurai alone. Considered the gateway of southern districts, if economic activities came to such a long halt, it would be a Herculean task to revive the same in a district like Madurai, where small and micro units were engaged in manufacturing rubber parts for auto sector and face masks, PPE sets for the health sector, etc. Only if small and tiny units were open, committed work orders could be completed on time. On delivery of goods, the payments can be received and salaries and other expenditures met by the entrepreneurs. Mandatory obligations too had to be fulfilled by the industries such as filing GST and payment of taxes. Due to the extension of lockdown, the Central government's financial credit assistance (working capital) too could not be utilised by many of the industrial organisations. On the other hand, for the last one month, despite non-utilisation of the funds lying in the bank accounts, interest had to be paid, he said. So the government should immediately withdraw the G.O. and pave way for opening up the industrial sector. The industries, irrespective of the sizes, adhered to the guidelines prescribed by the governments and the health authorities, Mr.Muruganantham added. Former president of TANSTIA KR Gnanasambandan said when lorries transported raw materials and industrial goods from other States/districts to Madurai, the consignments remained in the lorry offices and could not be re-distributed to other cities in southern districts due to the lockdown.  Only if small and tiny units are open, committed work orders can be completed on time B. Muruganantham, president, MADITSSIA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extension-will-hit-industries-hard-trade-body/article31998400.ece
06 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID police question friends of Benicks in Thoothukudi||Different teams in the CB-CID continued with their probe with people who had information about the way the Sattankulam police treated trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks, who died in judicial custody in Sattankulam. According to information available, the CB-CID sleuths had summoned a few of the friends of Benicks to appear before them and recorded their statements here on Sunday. They had also collected inputs regarding the members of Friends of Police (FoP) who were at the police station at the time when the father and son were detained. The police had already arrested five persons including former Sattankulam police station inspector Sridhar and others, who are facing murder charges. The investigation gained momentum after the High Court Bench in Madurai took up the issue suo motu and monitored the progress on a daily basis. The CB-CID police said that they may seek custody of the five persons remanded in judicial custody soon. On Saturday evening, the five suspects were shifted to Madurai Central Prison from Paeroorani jail. The services of the Friends of Police has been suspended in Tamil Nadu till further advice. Senior officers across the State instructed police stations to recall the identity cards given to the FoPs and not engage the volunteers in any police-related activities, police sources said on Sunday. The move follows a controversy over FoP volunteers being engaged to beat up P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in the Sattankulam police station on the night of June 19 after they were arrested. Though the FoP, which has senior IPS officer and Director-General of Police (CB-CID) Prateep V. Philip as its Founder & Director, headquartered in Kodambakkam Chennai, issued a statement that there were no volunteers attached to the Sattankulam police station and the organisation had no role in the alleged custodial torture, the allegations continued to make news in various platforms. The organisation claimed that some volunteers were engaged for COVID-19 related work by the Sattankulam police and they had nothing to do with the FOP. “The alleged involvement of FoP volunteers in the Sattankulam police station is under investigation by the CB-CID. We have received instructions from the police headquarters to recall the identity cards and not to engage FoP volunteers till further advice,” a senior police officer told The Hindu.   Editor booked  In a related development, the CB-CID booked the editor of Makkal Seithi Maiyam for allegedly publishing “morphed” photographs of the bodies of Jayaraj and Benicks. Sources said that a case was registered against him under the provisions of Section 153A(1)(b) (Act prejudicial to the maintenance of communal harmony between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities, and which disturbs or is likely to disturb pubic tranquillity) Section 469 (forgery) among others read with Section 66(D) (Punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-police-question-friends-of-benicks-in-thoothukudi/article31998099.ece
06 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. opens cell to promote exports||The Tamil Nadu government has established an exclusive cell to facilitate exports, Neeraj Mittal, MD and Chief Executive Officer, GUIDANCE, said here on Saturday. At a virtual conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on ‘Explore Export 2020’, he said GUIDANCE has now export promotion as a mandate with dedicated resources. The cell would answer questions from exporters, match trade partners, incentivise exporters and address export issues. The government had taken sector-specific measures to promote exports, he said. Thoothukudi VOC Port Trust chairman T.K. Ramachandran said the VOC Port could be a major attraction for investors to establish industries in southern districts. The port, which has well-trained personnel and state-of-the-art gadgets, could handle large volumes of cargo. It has a plenty of land for industrial development, he said, inviting entrepreneurs to set up shop here. CII Tamil Nadu Chairman Hari K. Thiagarajan said exporters should utilise government schemes, especially those under ‘Make in India’. Exporters from this region should aim not only for job creation but also a higher share in India’s exports on a higher gross value. By producing higher volumes, local consumption could improve and products would be visible in global markets, he said. Since the lockdown due to COVID-19, the exports had declined to 35% between March and May, but the situation was promising from mid-June, said Dinesh Dua, CII (North India) and chairman, Pharmexcil. The next three months looked positive for exports as the industry, especially the health sector, had made face masks and personal protective equipment to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide. Event chairman V. Krishna Shankar said the objective of the conference was to prompt exporters to achieve a 5% share in world merchandise trade and services trade by 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-opens-exclusive-cell-to-facilitate-exports/article31998095.ece
06 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown complete in central region||There was complete lockdown in Tiruchi and other districts in the central region on Sunday in consonance with the announcement made by the State government for curbing all relaxations, in an effort to check the spread of COVID-19. Shops and business establishments besides commercial units remained shut with no activities taking place anywhere in the region. People remained indoors heeding the government's call during the lockdown period in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the region. Movement of vehicles came to a standstill with busy thoroughfares wearing a deserted look. Commercial hotspots in Tiruchi including NSC Bose Road, Big Bazaar Street and those in its vicinity witnessed no movement of people or vehicles through the entire day. Barring medical shops, no other shop was opened, said police sources. Police personnel were deployed at vantage locations in Tiruchi and other districts to ensure that the government’s announcement of lockdown was enforced completely and to book violators venturing out of their homes. There was complete mobilisation of police personnel in Tiruchi Range consisting of Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Karur districts with men and officers deployed at various places including markets during the lockdown period, said Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya. DIG rides bicycle DIG Annie Vijaya in plain clothes went on rounds riding a bicycle early in the day to get a first hand account of the ground-level situation. The DIG, who was accompanied by a couple of constables on motorcycles, rode the bicycle from her office up to Mathur police station situated along the Tiruchi- Pudukottai national highway covering about 20 kilometres. DIG Annie Vijaya said there was no movement on the roads and that there was total adherence to the government’s lockdown directive. The State government had announced complete lockdown across the State without any relaxations on all Sundays this month. Karur The lockdown was total in Karur district. Except milk booths, pharmacies, hospitals and laboratories, all other shops and business establishments remained closed. Almost all knitwear manufacturing units, HDPE monofilament based industries, engineering industries, bus body units and other establishments remained closed. Roads and important thoroughfares were deserted as cars, autorikshaws and two-wheelers were off the roads. Meat and fish stalls, which usually attract customers in large numbers on Sundays, were not opened for business.  Ariyalur More than 95 % of the shops and business houses in Ariyalur, Jayankondam, Thirumanur and other parts of the district were closed. Vegetable shops, grocery stores and meat stalls too remained closed in response to the directive for a complete lockdown issued by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-complete-in-central-region/article31998456.ece
06 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Absence of trial rooms disappoints customers||Trial rooms in textile showrooms serve no purpose these days. The showrooms have kept the trial rooms locked in keeping with the safety protocol, causing disappointment to many a customer. “Though customers disinfect their hands with sanitisers while entering the showroom, we are not prepared to take chances. There is no certainty that a same garment will not be tried by different persons on a same day,” a manager of a showroom in the city said. “We do follow all safety protocol. None, for instance, is allowed to get into the showrooms without wearing face masks. But, there is always the risk of the infection spreading through unknown means. That's the reason why exchange of goods once they are sold is strictly not permitted in the present situation,” a managing partner of a readymade garments showroom who did not wish to be identified, said. The niche advantage of the brick and mortar business over online transactions has been the advantage of trying out the garments. But then, compliance with safety protocol is now of foremost importance, he said, citing the instance of the forcible shutting of a large showroom in Coimbatore after some of their staff got infected. “It is indeed a difficult situation. Suddenly, everybody looks at all others with suspicion and fear. The spike in the number of cases has only made matters worse. Right now, there seems to be no way to wade out of the crisis-like situation,” he said, adding that a sense of desperation has begun to arise as none is able to predict anything about when the crisis will subside - whether it will take weeks or months or even longer. Facing the challenge of running the business despite shortage in the number of salespersons in the showrooms, the proprietors are already worried about recovery of business in time before the start of festival season later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/absence-of-trial-rooms-disappoints-customers/article31998437.ece
06 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sharp spike in cases||Three persons died of comorbid conditions in the central region, even as the number of COVID-19 cases in the central districts went up sharply to 192 cases on Sunday. Two persons in Tiruchi and one in Pudukkottai died of comorbid conditions. A 72-year-old man who was admitted to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on June 29 was undergoing treatment until Sunday when he suffered respiratory failure and a cardio-respiratory arrest. He had a known condition of diabetes, which worsened his condition, hospital officials said. In Tiruchi, a man and a woman aged 75 and 50 respectively, died of comorbid conditions, official sources at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital confirmed. While the 75-year-old woman suffered from diabetes and was said to have died before being admitted to the Tiruchi GH, the 50-year-man hailing from Lalgudi had previously recovered from cancer, but was later diagnosed with diabetes. He was admitted to the Tiruchi GH on Sunday and died within hours of being admitted, they said. Tiruchi and Pudukottai saw a rise in cases with 86 and 56 cases respectively. Thanjavur had 16 new cases, Tiruvarur had 15, 10 in Karur, six in Nagapattinam, two in Ariyalur and one in Perambalur. In Tiruchi, of the 86 patients, a large number of patients hailed from within Musiri and Thuraiyur. The total number of active cases within the Corporation zone was seven, while the rural total was 224. Meanwhile, a total of 25 patients hailing from Tiruchi who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi MGMGH were discharged from the hospital.All 44 reporters and photographers from Tiruchi from whom test swabs were lifted tested negative. In Pudukottai, 56 patients, including two two-year-old boys and a one-year-old girl tested positive for the infection. Most patients had returned from other districts or were immediate contacts of those who tested positive. Fifteen patients from Tiruvarur and sixteen from Thanjavur also tested positive for the viral infection. In Karur, ten patients, including six from the same family tested positive for the infection. One male patient who recovered from the infection was discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. As on Sunday, there were 43 active cases in the district. In Nagapattinam, six tested positive, including five returnees from abroad – from Dubai and Iran - and one local contact of a patient who had tested positive earlier. They have been admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. In Ariyalur, two patients – men aged 57 and 46 – who returned from other districts also tested positive for the viral infection. The total number of cases in the district is 468. However, 450 patients have recovered from the viral infection and have been discharged. The sole patient who tested positive in Perambalur is a 54-year-old Siddha doctor form Veppanthattai. The doctor had fever on June 26 and was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi. On July 1, he was referred to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment after a swab test was lifted. On July 4, the results returned positive. He is undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi GH and is responding well, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-spike-in-cases/article31998450.ece
06 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Upgrading boxing ring starts at stadium||Work on upgrading the boxing ring at Anna Stadium to international standard has begun. The work is being taken up at an estimate of Rs. 13.70 lakh, with funding from Airports Authority of India (AAI) as part of its Corporation Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that the open boxing ring will be upgraded with the provision of roof, walls and equipment. The boxing ring of international standard is slated for completion before August. The facility will be a major motivation for aspiring boxers to enhance their skills for participation in national and international events. It would enable the organisers to conduct tournaments as well, Mr. Sivarasu added. At least 25 boys belonging to sports hostel have been undergoing regular training on boxing. Besides them, uniformed services personnel including army men had evinced interest to take part in the training. The improvement in the facility would serve them well, the Collector said. K. Prabu, District Sports Officer, Tiruchi, said that the work would gain momentum in the days to come, and hoped that the infrastructure would attract more youth from Tiruchi and neighbouring areas towards boxing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgrading-boxing-ring-starts-at-stadium/article31998445.ece
06 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||75-year-old dies of COVID-19 infection||A 75-year-old woman who had tested positive for COVID-19 died on the way to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on Sunday while being shifted from a private hospital. The woman, a resident of Subramani Kovil Street at Mela Chinthamani in the city, was admitted to a private hospital in Thillai Nagar after suffering from breathlessness. A COVID-19 test was performed and when she tested positive, the hospital decided to shift her to Tiruchi GH. However, the woman lost consciousness en route, and doctors at Tiruchi MGMGH declared her dead on arrival. “We have shifted the body to the GH mortuary,” R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, said. “The body will be handed over to Tiruchi Corporation for disposal as per the norms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-infection/article31998449.ece
06 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Owner of shopping complex found dead||An owner of a shopping complex at Thillai Nagar was found dead on Sunday. Police gave the name of the deceased as K. Vishveswaran (60). Visveswaran had settled in Mumbai with his family but used to visit Tiruchi to collect rent and for other purposes. He had come here a few days ago and had been staying in a room in the complex and had booked a return ticket to Mumbai, said police sources. As he failed to respond to his wife’s phone calls, she alerted the police whereupon a team from the Thillai Nagar station rushed to the complex and broke open the door. They found Viswesaran lying motionless. An alert was sounded to the 108 ambulance and a doctor who came to the spot declared him dead. The body was shifted to the mortuary at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The cause of death was not known immediately. Thillai Nagar police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owner-of-shopping-complex-found-dead/article31998451.ece
06 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 85.55 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,809 cusecs and the discharge was 15,001 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31998454.ece
06 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Surgical ICU inaugurated at Tiruppur GH||A new surgical intensive care unit (ICU) was inaugurated at Tiruppur Goverment Medical College Hospital recently. An initiative of Rotary Club of Tiruppur West and Rotary Club of Tiruppur East, the ICU was inaugurated by Tiruppur South MLA S. Gunasekaran in the presence of District Governor of Rotary District 3202 A. Karthikeyan. According to Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, the unit is a six-bedded facility with various modern medical equipment.  This surgical ICU is located in the old maternity and child health block on the hospital premises. With this new surgical ICU, post-operative care can be extended to more patients in the hospital, Dr. Valli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgical-icu-inaugurated-at-tiruppur-gh/article31998118.ece
06 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Govt. library gets a new lease of life||A government library in Kattery village near Udhagamandalam, which had suffered years of neglect and was on the verge of collapse, has been renovated with funds raised by local residents. The government library, which has 1,300 members, and has 30,000 books, had been set up in the 1960s. Most of the library’s members are school and college children as well as farmers, and local residents said that the library fulfilled a very important social function over the last five decades of its existence in the village. “For many, it remains the first place where they could access books readily, and many of the members have been members of the library since their childhood,” said local residents. After it was built, the building housing the library was not renovated, meaning that over the years, spells of heavy rain in the area would lead to water damage to books and an increased chance of the building collapsing. “We approached the district library seeking funds for its renovation, but they too said that they would be unable to provide any funding to renovate the building,” said a resident of the village. “As the library was closed down due to the lockdown, weeds had started growing all around the building,” said Guru Lingam, another resident of Kattery village. After cleaning up the premises, local residents held a meeting with the village head, Rajappan, who called on the residents to raise funds on their own to help in the renovation of the entire building. A door-to-door campaign was started to raise funds, and around 500 people contributed to the effort, with around Rs. 1 lakh being raised by the residents. “We immediately set to work, and carried out the renovation, realising that the monsoon was just around the corner. With most of the major renovation work fully completed, the rain hit the Nilgiris, and we are happy to report that there has been no water seeping through the walls of the building,” said Mr. Rajappan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-library-gets-a-new-lease-of-life/article31998112.ece
06 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||When the carrot becomes the stick for gaurs in the Nilgiris||The well-being of Indian gaurs, feasting on discarded carrots and vegetables in major agricultural areas of Ketti Palada and Muthorai Palada, is becoming a concern for forest department officials and conservationists. The gaurs, which are being increasingly seen around human habitations, are known to be almost daily visitors to the carrot cleaning machines in Ketti Palada and Muthorai Palada, consuming the discarded vegetables that are rejected at the cleaning units in great quantities. “This poses certain risks,” said a wildlife veterinarian who has conducted postmortems on deceased animals across the Nilgiris. “The Indian gaur is a ruminant. Animals consuming too much of vegetables such as carrots, cabbage and even rice discarded from homes, could lead to acidosis or the build-up of acid in the bloodstream,” he said. N. Kannan, veterinary assistant surgeon, Ketti, who performs postmortems on deceased Indian gaur in the major agricultural belt of the Ketti valley, said that in 2020, he has come across the death of at least one Indian gaur and three domestic cattle due to acidosis, caused by the consumption of large amounts of carrots and other vegetables and items unsuited to the diets of wild and domestic ruminants. “Of course, this does not mean that a gaur feeding on carrots will immediately die as a result, but if an animal overeats vegetables, then it is possible that they are more prone to acidosis and death over a period of time,” Dr. Kannan said. District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy, said that the death of an Indian gaur which feeds on discarded vegetables could be drawn out over many months. “Toxicity could be accumulative over a period of time, with not only discarded vegetables, but also consumption of other foods to which the gaur is not accustomed to, playing a role in their eventual deaths,” said Mr. Guruswamy, adding that the discarding of vegetable waste also led to the deaths of gaur in other ways. “For instance, as gaur are attracted to these foods, some of them fall into open wells which have been dug up around agricultural fields. This is another main reason for the high incidence of deaths of Indian gaur in these areas,” Mr. Guruswamy added. The DFO said that the forest department has impressed up on the local bodies and the horticulture department to insist on proper disposal of waste from these vegetable cleaning units. According to statistics from the forest department, 96 Indian gaurs have died near human settlements across the Nilgiris between 2018 and 2020, with deaths resulting from accidental falls into open wells and pits constituting to some of the most common causes of deaths of these animals in these regions. Wildlife researchers, however, said that there was a need for a much broader understanding of the reasons that were causing Indian gaur to venture out of the forests in search of food. “There are observations from forest officials and researchers that consuming vegetables such as carrots could lead to the death of wild animals such as the gaur, but there have been no definitive studies proving this link,” said B. Navaneethan, a gaur researcher who has been studying the animals for almost a decade. “What we should really be seeking to understand is why animals such as the gaur are venturing out from their primary habitats. “Is it due to lack of food in the forests or a boom in population? All of this needs to be studied, as right now, we have very little data about these factors. Once we understand this better, then, we can also try to study the diet of Indian gaur in these areas, whether there is a higher rate of death caused by their diet and so forth,” said Mr. Navaneethan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-the-carrot-becomes-the-stick-for-gaurs-in-the-nilgiris/article31998114.ece
06 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to monthly maintenance works to be carried out at Kotagiri, Kattabettu, Honnatty and Keradamattam sub-stations sub-stations on July 7 (Tuesday), power supply will be disconnected to the following places between 10 a.m and 5 p.m.: Kotagiri sub-station: Kotagiri, Sundatty, Kappatty, Ullatty, Kairben, Gundada, Horasolai, Naragiri, Kair Combai, Kannerimukku, Thattapallam, Kunjapannai, Konavakkarai, Denad, Thimbatty, Aravenu, Beraganai, Kair Betta and Milidane.  Kattabettu sub-station: Orasolai, West Brook, Bakkiya Nagar, Kodumudi, Kagguchi, Kattabettu, Naduhatty, Ebbanadu, Thummatty, Kenthorai, Kookal, Kookalthorai, Thoraihatty, Kadanadu, Thuneri, Iduhatty, Chinnacoonoor, Anikorai, T Manihatty, Billicombai, Byanagi, Ajoor, Masanakkal.  Honnatty sub-station: Bangalapadi, Kadinamala, Kengarai, Kootada, Kil Kotagiri, Thalamukkai, Sholur Mattam, Denadu, Kaikatty, Kodanadu, Nattakal, Honnatty, Thuneri, Nedugula, Elada, Karikiyoor, Koilmattam, Kullangarai, Semmanarai, Manjamalai Colony.  Keradamattam sub-station: Keradamattam, Kodanad, Elada, Anna Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Nedugula, Karson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31998116.ece
06 July 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||57 newly-recruited women constables test positive for COVID-19||As many as 57 newly-recruited women constables in Villupuram district have tested positive for COVID-19. Official sources said all of them were Grade II constables from various parts of the district. They were being trained along with 269 others at the Police Training School (PTS) at Mailam near here.  Samples lifted A police officer said that the samples were lifted after three others from the PTS tested positive two days ago. The results returned positive on Saturday evening.  Training school closed The PTS was closed and the women were shifted to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital at Mundiyambakkam and were under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/57-newly-recruited-women-constables-test-positive/article31998097.ece
06 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||250-bed COVID-19 care centre set up at Sivakasi engineering college||With all government hospitals in Virudhunagar fast filling up, the district administration is gearing up to ready a COVID Care Centre (CCC) with around 500 beds. “We have readied 250 beds at the new CCC in Mepco Shlenk Engineering College in Sivakasi. Efforts are on to increase the total number of beds to 500,” Collector R. Kannan said. The district has recorded around 550 new cases in the last 12 days. As on Saturday, the district had 429 active cases, recording the highest number of positive cases of 100 in a single day. As the administration has increased its RT-PCR testing facility with equipment borrowed from the same college, the speed of testing has increased. “While one equipment is used for pooled test, another is used for confirmatory test,” he added. The district has a huge backlog of around 3,000 samples for which results are expected soon. The results of most of the samples sent to Tirunelveli, Theni and Sivaganga are likely to come in a couple of days. Officials expect a sudden spurt in the number of positive cases. The administration is expected to get one more equipment soon from the State Health Department. Virudhunagar district has around 760 beds for COVID-19 patients from Virudhunagar, Sivakasi, Aruppukottai, Rajapalayam and Sattur. “When the CCC gets ready, we are planning to send all new asymptomatic patients to the CCC and those with moderate and severe symptoms to government hospitals,” Mr. Kannan said. Meanwhile, the Collector has also planned to make use of unutilised beds in private hospitals for providing treatment to COVID-19 patients. The administration has asked the private hospitals to take up treatment of patients in their hospitals as per the guidelines of Indian Medical Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/250-bed-covid-19-care-centre-set-up-at-sivakasi-engineering-college/article31998394.ece
06 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Now, wireless blares frequently to remind police of physical distancing||The wireless communication of Virudhunagar police frequently blares just to remind its constabulary force on the need to maintain physical distancing as more number of police personnel are getting infected with COVID-19. “We have been frequently reminding, through wireless communication, them to keep a minimum distance from the people and to use mask and face shield. But, it has been a difficult task to make them scrupulously follow the instructions,” said Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police, P. Perumal. Despite a series of precautionary measures taken by Virudhunagar district police, the number of police personnel getting infected by virus was on the rise. On Friday alone, seven police personnel from different police stations, especially on the western region, were infected. “A total of 17 police personnel have so fare been infected in Virudhunagar district and three of them have been discharged,” the SP said. The administration had made a special ward exclusively for the police personnel of the district at Sattur Government hospital. Though the police force had been distributed masks, face shields and sanitisers, the only problem with the men was lack of proper physical distancing. Many of them were not using the face shields. The administration had got 100 ml sanitiser bottles and all 3,000 police personnel were given one bottle each. “We will supply them one bottle every day. They are supposed to carry it all the time and use it as frequently as possible,” he said. Hand washing facility with adequate number of soaps was also made available at the police stations, he said. All the police personnel in vehicle checking duty had been asked to compulsorily wear face shield and maintain minimum distance from the members of public while interacting with them. Though 10 reusable masks were already provided, another two new masks were distributed yesterday. Every sub-division had been provided with a disinfectant sprayer for sanitising the police stations. Similarly, thermal scanners and pulse oximeters had been provided. The administration had also made kabsura kudineer available. “We have already distributed all the medical kits, including zinc and vitamin tablets and second round of distribution of arsenic album tablets will be done tomorrow,” he said. “It seems creating awareness on the need for physical distancing among the police alone will work,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-wireless-blares-frequently-to-remind-police-of-physical-distancing/article31998391.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday lockdown total in western districts||Except for a few vehicles on the roads, residents of Coimbatore district were largely confined to their houses on Sunday as the State government had announced complete lockdown on Sundays this month. The main roads of Coimbatore city wore a deserted look. Retail outlets, meat shops, vegetable markets, and industries remained shut. Workers, who were returning home after night shift at industries were asked to reach home before 7 a.m. Though those who had workers staying on the industry premises had permission to operate, very few did so. Hotels had downed shutters and did not offer takeaway service, too. Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani said it was almost 100% compliance with no major issue of violation, across the district. Coimbatore city and rural police made extensive deployment of personnel for effective enforcement of total lockdown. Coimbatore city police had erected 13 standalone check-posts and 22 barricade check-posts in city limits in addition to the existing 12 check-posts. Police personnel used body-worn cameras while checking vehicles. Apart from these, police personnel patrolled city areas in 25 four-wheelers and 44 motorcycles. Containment zone monitoring squad for each zone monitored the spots that are located in the four police sub-divisions. Police personnel issued advisories through addressing system from watch towers erected at important locations. Drones were also used for surveillance. Coimbatore District (Rural) Police checked vehicles at 13 places along Kerala border and at 12 inter-district check-posts. They also checked vehicles on important locations in each station limits. Sources with the city and rural police said that the number of cases registered against lockdown violators were being collated.  Tiruppur  Tiruppur City Police seized 57 vehicles on Sunday for violating the norms of the complete lockdown imposed by the State government. As many as 61 cases were registered by the police for violating the lockdown, police sources said. Apart from these, no other major violations were reported within the City Police limits, sources said. Newly-appointed Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan visited 10 check-posts to monitor the lockdown and to instruct the police personnel regarding the checking of vehicles entering into the city.  Erode  With all the shops closed in the district and in the absence of vehicle movement, lockdown was total in Erode district. Only hospitals, pharmacies, Amma canteens, Aavin outlets and milk booths were opened whereas all the shops, commercial establishments, grocery stores, meat shops, Tasmac outlets, petrol bunks and bakeries were closed across the district. The lockdown was total both in the city and in rural areas as people stayed indoors throughout the day. Even morning and evening walkers did not venture out of their homes as the district administration had earlier warned that action will be taken against those violating the norms. Police erected barricades on arterial roads, junctions and at the city’s entry point and road users were stopped and questioned on the purpose of travel. Most of the roads wore a deserted look as only a few vehicles moved. Vehicles carrying milk and essential commodities were searched and were allowed to proceed. As many as 1,200 police personnel were posted for duty across the district while round-the-clock monitoring was in place at the inter-district and inter-State borders. Corporation officials sealed two meat shops that functioned at Surampatti Valasu and Cutchery Street. Also, the corporation workers carried out disinfection on all the arterial roads in the city. Senior police officials said that the people cooperated with the officials by not venturing out of their homes.  Salem  Lockdown was total in Salem as almost all commercial establishments remained closed for the day. Farmer markets and other wholesale markets were also not permitted to function. Police checks were strengthened in the district. Public were advised to remain indoors and those who ventured out unnecessarily were stopped and sent back by the police. In Salem district police limits, around 1,400 personnel were deployed in three shifts as part of strict checks during the lockdown. In city limits, over 700 police personnel were deployed and 43 vehicle check points were set up. Officials from Salem Corporation fined meat outlets at various places in its limits for functioning from residences despite lockdown. According to officials, multiple meat and fish outlets in Kondalampatti and Arisipalayam areas were sealed and items seized. The operators were fined between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 10,000 for functioning defying prohibitory orders. Corporation officials fined a pork stall to the tune of Rs. 10,000 near Kondalampatti. Petrol pumps also remained closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-lockdown-total-in-western-districts/article31998123.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore, Salem record 50 cases each||As many as 50 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district, a majority of whom are from urban areas, on Sunday. According to officials with the Health Department, 47 persons contracted the disease locally while three had come from other places. Kalapatti saw four more cases on Sunday. Three cases each were reported from Vilankurichi, TANSA Nagar at Bommanampalayam, Sulur, Peelamedu and Puliyakulam. Singanallur, Avarampalayam, airport junction, Ramanathapuram, Edayarpalayam and Kuniyamuthur had two cases each. Other patients were from places such as Vellalore, Sugunapuram, Vellamdai, Chinniyampalayam, Telengupalayam, Selvapuram, Sanganoor road at Ganapthy, NSN Palayam, Periyanaickenpalayam, Ukkadam, Nehru Nagar, Thaneerpandal, Coimbatore airport and Goldwins. On Sunday, 25 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. As many as 50 cases were reported in Salem district. Among this, 41 are indigenous and nine persons have travelled from other States. In the highest single-day spike, a total of 26 new cases were reported in Erode. Officials said that 15 cases were reported in Gobichettipalayam, four in corporation limits, two each in Sathyamangalam and Kodumudi blocks and one case each at Bhavani Sagar, Bhavani and Talavadi. Of these, 18 cases were contact of positive cases, while six were unlinked and two cases were inter-district travel. Currently, 162 persons are undergoing treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and at a private hospital in the city. So far, 248 cases were reported, with 81 discharged and five deaths. Nine cases were reported in Krishnagiri. While seven patients are indigenous, two patients have returned from Bengaluru. According to officials, five of the patients were identified during screening of ILI cases here. In Dharmapuri, nine indigenous cases were reported. Four COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Namakkal. The patients include a 35-year-old female traffic police constable and a 32-year-old female doctor of a primary health centre. Both the patients are undergoing treatment at Namakkal District Headquarters Hospital. Two other patients have returned from Chennai and are undergoing treatment at Tiruchengode Government Hospital and Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College hospital. Tiruppur district saw six fresh cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 204. Out of the 204 cases, 77 are active cases and 125 patients were discharged. The patient from Avinashi, who went on a two-wheeler to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on July 2, was discharged from ESI Hospital on Sunday. The two deaths were not declared in the State government’s COVID-19 media bulletin on Sunday. One person has tested positive in the Nilgiris, bringing the total number of cases recorded in the district to 124.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-salem-record-50-cases-each/article31998129.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As COVID-19 cases increase, MSMEs fear impact of containment area restrictions||As the number of COVID-19 cases increase in the city, more streets are coming into containment zones and industries fear this can affect production. C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Tiny and Micro Entrepreneurs’ Association, so far industries have not been affected much because of containment measures. “However, I just got a message that two streets in a micro industry cluster were closed. We will need to verify the information and see what the impact will be. There are reports that the containment area restrictions are lifted in five to six days. If there is an industry in that particular street, it will be affected,” he said. According to R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association, if there are positive cases in bigger industries, the division where the worker was employed is closed for a day, the entire area is disinfected, and production continues after that. In the case of MSMEs, there have been no complaints so far regarding containment zones. President of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, P. Nallathambi, said only the particular street where a positive case is reported is closed down. Worker movement from that area is affected and also because of lack of buses. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said if a micro industry owner is affected, the unit’s operations come to a standstill for nearly a month. This is because of the mandatory quarantine after the treatment. Most of the micro units are managed by a single person. The workers can only operate the machinery with the raw materials available. There will be no one to co-ordinate with customers or the raw material suppliers. In such situations, the government should come forward and support the micro units. Several industries were already affected before the COVID spread because of economic slowdown. With the pandemic, the financial stress has only increased for the MSMEs. The government should come out with uniform guidelines regarding quarantine and containment area restrictions so that MSMEs are not affected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-covid-19-cases-increase-msmes-fear-impact-of-containment-area-restrictions/article31998125.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects containment zones in Coimbatore city||District Collector K. Rajamani on Sunday inspected the measures put in place in a few of the COVID-19 containment zones in the city, said a release from the district administration. He visited Edayar Street, Savithri Nagar, Thirumoorthy Nagar, Thirunavukkarasu Nagar, Mill Street and a few other areas, where the Coimbatore Corporation has restricted the entry and exit of people. The district administration had imposed restriction on movement of people and declared as containment zones 27 areas in the city and three in rural areas. Samples lifted After isolating the affected person, the administration traced all those in the person’s neighbourhood who would have come in contact with him or her, lifted samples from them and declared the area a containment zone. As for the affected person, it rushed them to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital for treatment, the release also said. Seeking cooperation from the public, the release further said it was necessary to prevent the spread of the disease and that people should take seriously the government’s advice and guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-containment-zones-in-coimbatore-city/article31998119.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||A 65-year-old man was arrested by the city police on charges of sexually assaulting his relative’s daughter, a minor girl. The police said that the accused hails from a place near Puliyakulam. According to the police, the parents of the girl are into vegetable sales near Peelamedu. They used to leave the seven-year-old girl with the accused while going to the shop. The accused allegedly assaulted the girl sexually on several occasions which she informed her parents recently. They lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore East, on Saturday. The police arrested the man for offences under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article31998120.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cleanliness drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleanliness-drive/article31998103.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A city in total silence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-city-in-total-silence/article31998447.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four districts emerge from total lockdown||“IT companies have informed us that their productivity has actually increased during the lockdown, when their employees have been working from home. Even under the earlier lockdowns, many firms were staffing only some key operations on the technical side to ensure that their businesses did not suffer any technological disruptions,” a senior State government official told The Hindu . In Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, small temples in rural areas and small mosques, dargahs and churches will be allowed to reopen for public worship. IT/ITeS firms have been permitted to operate at 100% capacity, but 20% of the staff have been advised to work from home. Private companies can operate with 100% employee strength. The official said many industries had been functioning with enough operational capacity, and this was likely to continue, though some industries were facing issues with labour shortage. Vegetable and provision shops can stay open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., as they used to before the intensive lockdown. Restaurants in Chennai can only offer takeaway services. From July 6, those already in possession of an e-pass that was valid till June 19 for travel between districts can continue to use it. However, those who need to travel between districts and do not have an e-pass must apply for one. With Chennai seeing a decline in cases in the last couple of days, authorities say the lockdown has served its key purpose — identifying symptomatic cases, providing treatment to those who have tested positive, and identifying and isolating contacts of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-districts-emerge-from-total-lockdown/article31998079.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police warn those spreading misinformation||The Nilgiris district police have warned of action against individuals who were spreading false or misleading information pertaining to the COVID-19 outbreak on social media. A press release issued here stated that the police had already warned people and had urged them to stop sharing unverified news about COVID-19 infections in the district, and also about the steps being taken to check the spread of the pandemic. Despite such warnings, there had been a few instances of spreading malicious content on social media and through mobile messaging applications. In one such instance, a man was arrested for posting incendiary statements that could have led to a communal clash, it said. The police said that cases will be registered against people spreading false or misleading information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-warn-those-spreading-misinformation/article31998126.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - July 6, 2020||In Paramakudi, the district administration has started a COVID Care Centre at Government Arts College due to the non-availability of beds in Government Hospital. However, there are no basic amenities like drinking water facilities and clean toilets. The air is stuffy too. I request the authorities to look into the matter. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi    Madurai Corporation has a 24-hour helpline where one can either make a phone call and report or send a WhatsApp message to register a complaint. I sent a message with a photo as proof via WhatsApp. I was assigned a complaint number. Even after a week no action was taken. I called up the mobile number and to my surprise, the official told me he had retired two months ago. I again registered the same complaint through WhatsApp and also requested them to delete the mobile number of the retired official. Shockingly, the same number was provided once again for complaint registration. Why can't the Corporation rectify this simple mistake? This goes to show the lethargic attitude of the local body. What is the use of having technology at one’s disposal? Will the Corporation Commissioner look into it and take immediate action? S. Bala,  Madurai    The government has extended the COVID-19 lockdown by another month till July 31. As the COVID-19 pandemic curve is not flattening, lockdown extension has become inevitable. The government has relaxed some restrictions and has allowed shops, private firms etc., to function with certain conditions. Furthermore, worshipping has also been allowed in small temples, small mosques and churches in rural areas with certain restrictions, which are to be welcomed. However,It is to be noted that senior citizens are affected and stressed since they are unable to go out even for a walk. They are confined at home. To give them relief from anxiety and stress, the authorities can open the public libraries, at least for the morning session, with restrictions such as mask-wearing, social distancing, and limiting number of visitors. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-july-6-2020/article31998410.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Diversion of domestic sewage into the irrigation canal at Nerkuppai village near Nochiam in Tiruchi district has caused consternation among farmers undertaking irrigation on about 100 acres. Residential units along the water course that starts off Ayyan Vaikal discharge waste water into the canal. The contaminated water does not suit agriculture. Since water from the Cauvery will be flowing through the canal shortly, farmers expect the authorities concerned to clear up the sewage in time. G. Subathrakrishnan, Nerkuppai.    Residents of Kanapadi, a small hamlet of Thenpuranadu Panchayat at the foot of Pachamalai hills in Uppiliapuram block, have been facing discomfiture due to the damaged condition of the road to a stretch of three km from their habitation to Narasingapuram. Erosion of the surface has made the stretch unmotorable for farmers, students and others using two-wheelers. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation also operates two trips per day from the hamlet to Thuraiyur town. Movement of people becomes risky after the fall of darkness. The Uppiliapuram Panchayat Union has to act promptly to rectify the road. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    As the number of COVID-19 positive cases is getting higher with every passing day in Tiruchi, the onus is on the people to restrict their travel, and adapt well to social distancing and preventing crowding. Since Tiruchi is at a vantage location, it has become a transit point for people on their way to other districts. The people have to cooperate with the State government and district administration to prevent spread of the infection. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.    Against the backdrop of steady spike in COVID-19 cases in Tiruchi city, scaling up of testing has become necessary. The district administration has to operate more number of mobile testing centres in containment zones at their doorsteps. Voluntary check-up must also be encouraged to cover every individual in the containment zones in the testing exercise. M. Sainithii, Cantonment.   While the emphasis on wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing and adherence to other safety protocol must not be lowered, creating a scare about the spread of the infection would only lead to destruction of the economic security of every individual. The State Government must allow electricians, plumbers and housemaids to eke out their livelihoods without any hindrance. Only a steady income will help them in repaying their borrowings made during the lockdown period. It is time to move on, taking heart from the resumption of normal life in European countries. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.      The COVID 19 pandemic has paralysed the academic functioning of schools and colleges. While a number of private schools have switched over to online education, the students of government schools have been left behind. It is imperative for the government to fulfil their academic requirements through teaching slots in the Doordarshan channels. Private television channels could also be utilised. S. Krishnan, Thippirajapuram.    Spread of COVID 19 could be prevented only through collective adherence to safety protocol by all sections of people. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon to find conductors of buses issuing tickets after moistening their fingers with saliva. The droplets of saliva on the ticket could cause spread of the infection. Instead of saliva, the conductors could be instructed to use wet pads. Murugappan SP, Lalgudi.    Plastic and other wastes cleared from the stormwater drainges are dumped on the sides at Seshadripuram in Srirangam. When the wastes are left uncleared for long, they again find their way into the drains at times of rainfall, clogging the passage again. There has been no response from the authorities despite the issue being highlighted every now and then. J. Anantha Padmanabhan, Tiruchi.      The report by media on the compulsion of an engineering college faculty with considerable teaching experience to sell 'murkuku' for a living after losing his job made a sad reading. The colleges might think of having fresh faculty, but the quality of teaching-learning would eventually take a beating. At a time when the government is spending heavily on scholarship for students to ensure their socio-economic progress, the AICTE has to think on lines of introducing a Teacher Eligibility Test with a dictat on payment of reasonable salaries. R. Ganesan, Tiruvanaikovil.      In the wake of the confusion over caculation of tariff rates, a need has arisen for the Tamil NaduGeneration and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) to upload a portal in their web for monthly remittance of bills and accepting voluntary readings by customers. In doing so, the TANGEDCO could save on manpower. For those who are not technically equipped, the bills could be received at the counters. To evade malpractice, a system of penalty could be put in place. Dimple R. Mohan, Sangiliyandapuram.    The mode of calculation of electricity tariff adopted by TANGEDCO appears to have been adopted with the objective of boosting up its collection, regardless of the financial crisis the customers are undergoing due to the state of joblessness during the lockdown period. The problems faced by the people can be mitigated if the TANGEDCO confines its calculation of the bill to May-June.  Kanagaraj Arthur, Ramalinganagar South Extension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31998444.ece
06 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘A detailed procedure’||The Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Traditional Medicine laboratory in Belagavi, that is conducting RT-PCR tests on COVID-19 samples, is yet to get any communication regarding the vaccine trials in the city. D. Chattopadhyaya, director of the ICMR NITM laboratory, said, “Vaccine trial is a detailed procedure that has to be done as per the established scientific criteria. It has to include various stages such as pre-clinical studies, animal trials, and two phases of human trials. I hope all these steps are being followed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-detailed-procedure/article31998027.ece
06 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi corporation office closed||Following the detection of COVID-19 positive cases in nearby areas, the Belagavi City Corporation has decided to stop receiving visitors at its office. The corporation issued an order on Sunday stating that it would close its doors to the general public who come with grievances. Those who have any grievances shall deposit their letters at a counter set up near the entrance of the office. However, the branch offices of the corporation and the citizen service counters in various residential areas will be open. Corporation officials said that the decision was taken after some cases had been detected in Hanuman Nagar, Mali Galli and Kolhapur Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-corporation-office-closed/article31998196.ece
06 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Painting of Swami Samarth on display||Belagavi-based artist Ajit Aurwadkar created a Rangoli painting of Swami Samarth of Akkalkot on the occasion of Guru Poornima on Sunday. Mr. Aurwadkar, who has perfected the art of using multi-colour Rangoli powder to create paintings, said that the painting was a tribute to the 19th century seer from Akkalkot in Maharashtra. “I consider Swami Samarth as my Guru. He has inspired millions like me with his statements like ‘You Go Ahead, I am Behind You!’. Guru Poornima is an occasion to remember him,’’ he said. The Rangoli painting is available for art lovers to see at Jyoti Studio in Wadagaon till July 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/painting-of-swami-samarth-on-display/article31998201.ece
06 July 2020||Belagavi/Dharwad/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Near-total shutdown in Belagavi||Belagavi city remained nearly shutdown during the State-wide curfew on Sunday imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. Most shops remained closed, despite Sunday being a working day in Belagavi. Tuesday is the traditional market holiday in the city. Only medical shops and some private clinics were open. As per an earlier announcement by the city corporation, vehicles carrying water, milk, vegetables and foodgrains were allowed to move freely. Traffic on the roads was reduced to the minimum. However, there were some commuters on some of the roads. The police who were at major traffic intersections allowed commuters to move after finding out if their movement was unavoidable. Traffic increased slightly by evening. The lockdown was nearly complete in Chikkodi, Athani and other towns in the district. Arun Patil, a soldier in the Indian army, and his wife had to wait for a few hours before finding a taxi to go to his native village of Mangasuli near Kagwad. He is now posted in Dehradun. He had come to Belagavi, without the knowledge of the Sunday curfew. The couple waited for a few hours near the Central Bus Stand. But there were no buses. Finally, a friend helped them get a taxi. MLA Mahesh Kumthalli held a meeting with traders association leaders in Athani to review the situation. He asked them to shut down the market voluntarily for a few days till the rising COVID-19 cases came under control. They said that they would discuss among their friends and decide on voluntary shutdown. In Dharwad In Dharwad, officers enforced a 33-hour curfew from Saturday evening. It was nearly total in the city and in rural areas. All shops were closed except those selling medicines and food items. Some foodgrains shop owners decided to voluntarily down their shutters. Some petrol pumps were open. There was not much business in the APMC market. The police had to reprimand some youth who were moving without any apparent reason. Police Commissioner R. Dileep said that the police seized a dozen motorcycles and three cars for violating the norms. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and Mr. Dileep conducted some surprise visits to some traffic intersections and market areas. The busy market areas on Subhas Road was deserted. Movement of vehicles was minimal and trucks were parked off the national highway near Narendra village. Mr. Patil has sought the co-operation of the public for the effective implementation of the government guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The city police have distributed safety gear to police personnel on duty.  In Hassan Lockdown in Hassan on Sunday was almost total. Shops were closed. There was hardly any movement of vehicles. Public transport was off the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/near-total-shutdown-in-belagavi/article31998199.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Roadworks, rain make commuting a nightmare||The rains are here and so are potholes and bad road stretches. What has only exacerbated the situation this season is the roadworks which are going on at a snail’s pace. The civic body attributes this to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant labour shortage. A total of 22 roads are being redone under the TenderSURE model as part of the Smart City project. Work is under way on key sub-arterial roads such as Hayes Road, Infantry Road, Kamaraj Road, Magrath Road, Raja Ram Mohun Roy Road, Queens Road, and Lavelle Road. Key arterial roads such as Kanakapura Road, Mysuru Road, and Bannerghatta Road are riddled with potholes and bad stretches owing to the ongoing Namma Metro work. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is yet to start filling potholes on a mission mode despite the rains being here. Many roads dug up Manjunath C., a resident of north Bengaluru who works as a food delivery partner, said commuting in the city had become tougher with the rains. “A lot of important roads in the core city are dug up, especially the footpaths. So, when it rains, the mud is washed onto the roads, making them slushy. It is almost dangerous to ride a bike on these roads,” he said. The ongoing roadworks were hit by the recent lockdown. While the work had stopped on most of these civic projects for over two months during the lockdown, now there is a severe labour shortage and the work is on only in one shift, sources said. “Ideally, work must be carried out in at least two shifts and the quantum of work done during night-time is substantially higher. But because of a severe paucity of labour, work has stopped during night-time, which will only drag on the project longer and also create hurdles for traffic movement during the day,” a senior civic official said, adding, “Ideally, work on these roads should have been taken up in batches. But work began on these roads simultaneously with an aim to finish at the earliest, but the lockdown and now the labour shortage has thrown a spanner in the works.” The outer zones, especially the 110 villages, are affected by road-cutting work by Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and restoration work has been a non-starter. Vishnu Prasad from Bellandur Forum said most of the roads in the area were dug up for laying water and sewage lines and had remained so for over three months now. “Work stopped during lockdown and now the BBMP has not taken up restoration work in earnest. When we approached the civic body, they blamed labour shortage for delay in starting the restoration work. The roads are unmotorable and the rains only make them worse. We risk our life riding two-wheelers on these roads,” he said. Funds earmarked BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that nearly Rs. 75 crore had been earmarked for restoration of roads dug up by the BWSSB and work would begin soon. “Each Assistant Engineer has been given Rs. 25,000 in an escrow account to fill potholes in their area. This account is replenished with more funds as and when the money is spent. Now that we have our own hot-mix plant, we are self-sufficient and work can be carried out at a faster pace,” he said. “We will review the ongoing road and civic works in the city and try to ensure the inconvenience caused to citizens is minimum during the rains,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roadworks-rain-make-commuting-a-nightmare/article31998005.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State yet to get as many beds as promised by private hospitals, says Sudhakar||Urging private hospitals to cooperate with the State government in handling the COVID-19 pandemic, Medical Education Minster K. Sudhakar on Sunday said the government was yet to receive the full number of beds it had asked from private hospitals in Bengaluru for COVID-19 treatment. He also said that criminal cases would be registered against private hospitals refusing treatment to patients. Of the 2,734 beds that had been sought from private hospitals, only 116 have been provided so far even though the hospitals had assured the government that they would give the beds immediately, the Minister said. “As per information available with us, 898 COVID-19 positive patients have gone to private hospitals directly. They [hospitals] have to hand over beds to the government as per the agreement,” he said. “This is a bottleneck and will be addressed soon by Revenue Minister R. Ashok and the Chief Minister’s Political Secretary S.R. Vishwanath, who have been given charge of this,” Dr. Sudhakar told presspersons. He, however, said there was no need to panic as a sufficient number of beds were still available in Bengaluru. Of the 819 beds at COVID Care Centres and three Government Medical Colleges, 152 were still available, while of the 1,899 beds in 11 private medical colleges in the city, 779 were available. Of the 611 beds in government hospitals, 105 were still available. “Confusion over bed allocation will be sorted out in a day or two,” he said. The Minister also said that 400 ambulances — two in each ward — would be deployed in Bengaluru. He said the government-recommended patients at private hospitals would be provided with insurance under the Suvarna Arogya Surakasha Trust, while those who get admitted in private hospitals voluntarily would have to bear the cost as per the rates fixed by the government. Stating that Bengaluru had the lowest mortality rate, at 1.46%, when compared to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, he said, “Once we increase testing, it is natural that the positive cases will also increase. The aim is to increase testing by optimal utilisation of capacity, especially in private labs.” The State is looking to increase the number of tests for COVID-19 to 30,000 a day through 80 approved labs.  Once we increase testing, it is natural that the positive cases will also increase. The aim is to increase testing by optimal utilisation of capacity, especially in private laboratories. Citizens need not panic because of this but should take all precautionary measures K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-yet-to-get-as-many-beds-as-promised-by-private-hospitals-says-sudhakar/article31998025.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Start-up creates crowd-sourced digital platform to manage pandemic||Aimed at bolstering the government’s efforts to manage the COVID-19 pandemic, a city-based start-up has developed a new crowd-sourced digital platform — Digital Health Outpost (DHO) — for health workers, the government, and the public. Fuelled by a data aggregation engine that collects information from multiple channels and driven by artificial intelligence, machine learning and data sciences, the geography-agnostic platform makes data available to the government, public, medical community or the supply-chain participants in real time, as things are unfolding on the ground and helps them take decisions. For instance, health workers can use it for quarantine management, communicating instructions for those in home quarantine and to comply with safety protocols set up for themselves. Civic bodies can use it in contact tracing, with its latitude/longitude and physical boundary capture and daily updates, tying confirmed cases to quarantine centres and advisories for neighbourhood watches. Madhu Kongovi, CEO of the start-up, said a real-time reporting dashboard is available for decision makers to act on; at various levels - from taluk/constituency to all the way to a State Health Department. This multi-user platform is aimed at creating better health outcomes for any population, he said. The platform comes with components on Android, iOS, web-portal and a Dashboard, and it has the capability to ingest data from social media too, he said. He said the company is in talks with the Ministry of Health and Electronics and Information Technology, in Delhi, and in active discussions with countries in Africa and Asia. He said he was also in talks with the officials concerned in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/start-up-creates-crowd-sourced-digital-platform-to-manage-pandemic/article31998013.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three districts are stringently tackling quarantine violations||Monitoring of home quarantine violations in Chikkamagaluru, Bengaluru Rural, and Ballari appears to be stringent, while districts such as Udupi, Koppal, Mandya, Uttara Kannada, and Belagavi are more lax, as per the State COVID-19 war room analysis. The war room has analysed the number of police complaints filed or people taken into institutional quarantine for every 1,000 violations of home quarantine. The data shows that strict action is initiated in 144 of 1,000 cases in Chikkamagaluru, while the numbers are 122 in Bengaluru Rural and 84 in Ballari. The most home quarantine violations have been reported in Bengaluru Urban district, and action was initiated in 11 cases per 1,000 violations. Udupi district seems to have done very little to tackle the home quarantine violations, as action has been taken only in one case for every 1,000 violations. In Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Mandya, and Koppal districts, action was initiated in two cases per 1,000 violations. Home quarantine violations are detected on the quarantine watch app and complaints are received by the officials concerned. Once the violations are detected, the field staff and volunteers try to obtain information from the ground level. “In a majority of the cases, those violating the norms were warned. But with the rise in number of cases, we have been urging the district administration to take action, including registering police complaints or putting them in institutional quarantine so that people take home quarantine seriously,” an official in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said. Testing targets Meanwhile, analysis by the war room showed that as on Friday last, only four districts — Koppal, Davangere, Hassan, and Chamarajanagar — had achieved their testing targets. Districts such as Tumakuru and Haveri had achieved less that 5% of their testing targets. The targets have been fixed based on numerous factors such as extent on infection spread and rate of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-districts-are-stringently-tackling-quarantine-violations/article31998018.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC establishes Dedicated Remand Court||In a unique move to contain the spread of COVID-19, the High Court of Karnataka has set up a specially designed Dedicated Remand Court (DRC) at Guru Nanak Bhavan in Bengaluru exclusively for physical production of arrested persons to avoid taking them to regular court complexes for production before the jurisdictional magistrates. “All safety measures for the physical production of arrested persons/undertrial prisoners is taken care of at the DRC. This will facilitate [their] safe production in compliance with the High Court’s COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedure and the guidelines issued by the government authorities,” the Registrar-General of the High Court said in a statement. The separate court premises for personal production of accused has been set up to avoid closure of regular court complexes for sanitisation and the need for quarantining judicial officers and court staff if accused persons test positive for COVID-19 subsequent to their production in court. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka recently told advocates during a hearing that the government had identified space for setting up a temporary court premises for production of accused persons for the first time after their arrest. Recently, a court complex in Bengaluru city was closed for sanitisation twice and a few other court complexes in a couple of districts were also closed for sanitisation after the accused and the escorting police personnel tested positiveafter their visits. The interior of the DRC has been designed to maintain safe distance between people by dedicating separate transparent enclosures for the judge and the stenographer, other court staff, the advocates and the police, and the accused persons. Whenever arrested persons and undertrials are required to be produced before the court physically for hearing and passing orders on pleas for remand or bail, the designated Chief Metropolitan Magistrate/Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate/Metropolitan Magistrate will hold a sitting in the DRC, the Registrar-General stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-establishes-dedicated-remand-court/article31998020.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Discrepancies galore in Karnataka’s COVID-19 media bulletins||Discrepancies have been reported in the media bulletins issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. In many instances, death and discharge details have been repeated. In some instances, a patient reported dead in one bulletin has been recorded as discharged in another, and vice-versa. There have been at least four such instances. The latest instance was on Saturday’s bulletin. Two patients who were reported dead in the bulletins on Saturday were among those already reported dead in media bulletins issued in June. For instance, patient number 10,402 — an 80-year-old woman who had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and who had symptoms such as fatigue, fever and breathlessness — passed away in Bengaluru on June 23. The patient, who was reported dead on Saturday, was also reported among the deaths in the June 25 bulletin. There were also discrepancies in the symptoms and co-morbidities reported. While Saturday’s bulletin specified that the patient had co-morbidities such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension, the bulletin on June 25 was silent on such ailments. There have also been also variations in the age of patients. Patient number 13,611, who had the co-morbidity lung cancer, died on June 28 in Bengaluru. The bulletin on Saturday described her as a patient who had Influenza-like Illness. However, the bulletin issued on June 30, where she was first reported dead, stated that she had SARI. The age of the patient in Saturday’s bulletin was 66, while the bulletin on June 30 put it at 64. An analysis shows that at least four people have been listed as dead on multiple days, which increases the death toll in the State. Besides the deaths, at least 184 people have been shown to be discharged on multiple days. Many researchers use the media bulletins to conduct in-depth analysis. The State war room also conducts analysis depending on this data. U.S. Vishal Rao, Associate Dean, Centre of Academics and Research at HealthCare Global (HCG) Cancer Centre, who has used the media bulletins for analysis, said there was a need to ensure reliability of data as several policy decisions would be taken based on it. “This COVID-19 pandemic is a war that needs to be won through a scientific approach, and the department needs to maintain data reliability as minute data will have far-reaching implications,” he said. Responding to this, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Health Commissioner, said the authorities were reconciling the figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discrepancies-galore-in-karnatakas-covid-19-media-bulletins/article31998032.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for comprehensive education policy during pandemic||Emphasis on online education by the government has meant it has turned a blind eye to the needs of children from working class and disadvantaged communities, All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) has argued, demanding a comprehensive education policy in the time of the pandemic. “Even as the new academic year has started, the State government has no plan for children from disadvantaged and oppressed communities, especially those studying in government schools and children enrolled in public schools under the Right to Education Act quota,” a statement from the AICCTU said. The letter draws attention to how the poor do not have facilities to invest in smart phones for their children to take online classes and how government schools have no infrastructure to conduct online classes. “It is shocking that the government is silent on their plans to address the learning needs of children studying in government schools,” the letter said, warning this year may see more dropouts, leading to child labour and malnutrition. The AICCTU has demanded for a consultative approach for a comprehensive education policy that may include online classes. The unions have also called for massive investment in building public school infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-comprehensive-education-policy-during-pandemic/article31998002.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||People coming to city from Tamil Nadu have a tough time||People coming from Tamil Nadu with Seva Sindhu e-pass had a tough time entering the city on Sunday. Owing to the lockdown, the police had denied entry for vehicles coming from Tamil Nadu at Attibele check-post. It was only after the higher-ups intervened that people with passes were allowed into the State. Subhashree Rajendran, a resident of Hebbal, said she spent over two hours at the check-post after the police denied entry. “I had gone to Tamil Nadu to bring back my brother who was stranded there. We also had the required e-pass from the Seva Sindhu portal having validity for Sunday. When we reached the check-post, we were told by the police that they had instructions not to allow vehicles as the curfew was in place. We reached there at around 12 noon and spent over two hours at the check-post. Like us, there were around 50 vehicles lined up at the check-post; there were elderly people, children, and pregnant women. The police asked us to come back on Monday morning at 6 a.m., but our pass was valid for only Sunday. We were allowed to enter the city only after we brought the issue to the notice of higher officials over the phone,” she said. Some even alleged that people heading towards the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) were stuck at the check-post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-coming-to-city-from-tamil-nadu-have-a-tough-time/article31998008.ece
06 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Home Minister: No plan of longer lockdown||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, speaking to mediapersons on Sunday, appealed to people of Bengaluru not to go back to their villages/home towns and instead stay put in the city. Rumours “It has come to our notice that there were rumours that we will impose lockdown for a longer period, prompting some to leave the city for their home towns on Saturday. The COVID-19 taskforce has discussed the pros and cons of imposing lockdown and there won’t be a lockdown in the State except on Sundays. The government is taking all measures and the citizens need not fear COVID-19. People going back to their home towns in large numbers may spread the virus there,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-minister-no-plan-of-longer-lockdown/article31997996.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Independence Day flower show cancelled||The Independence Day flower show at Lalbagh, one of the most eagerly awaited events in the city, has been cancelled owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Horticulture Department officials said the flower show in the Glass House of Lalbagh botanical garden has a long history. M Jagadeesh, Joint Director of Horticulture (Parks and Gardens), said the flower shows were arranged since the 1890s and from 1912 onwards, the shows were organised in association with the Mysore Horticulture Society. “Prior to building the glass house, flower shows were conducted near the bandstand. After the Glass House was built, for a couple of years, it was used for acclimatisation of plants sourced from various parts of the globe. Later, it was also used for conducting flower shows on a large scale. This is the first time we are not in a position to conduct the show owing to the pandemic,” he explained. This year’s Republic Day flower show saw over six lakh flowers of different hues used to give a floral tribute to Swami Vivekananda. The flower show had witnessed a footfall of more than six lakh visitors and generated revenue of over Rs. 2 crore. Social distancing “Social distancing has become a new norm after the outbreak of COVID-19. The government has come out with various guidelines to contain the spread of the disease. Conducting a flower show will defeat the purpose of social distancing. So, a decision has been taken not to conduct the event this time,” said Mr. Jagadeesh. Owing to the pandemic, mango and jackfruit mela too could not be organised at Lalbagh this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/independence-day-flower-show-cancelled/article31998007.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10,100-bed capacity care centre at BIEC||A COVID Care Centre with a bed capacity of 10,100 has been set up at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) on Tumakuru Road in the city. It is said to be the largest COVID Care Centre in India. A press release issued on Sunday stated that asymptomatic persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 would be housed here. The centre has a sufficient number of toilets, kitchen area and space to cater to the patients. The centre, which will be manned by around 150 doctors, also has oxygenated beds to accommodate in-house emergencies. Separate space for nursing and rest stations for health workers has been created. The centre, apart from being well-ventilated, has recreational facilities. On Sunday morning, MLA for Yelahanka S.R. Vishwanath, accompanied by BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar and senior civic officials, visited the centre and inspected the facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10100-bed-capacity-care-centre-at-biec/article31998019.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP chief praised||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar has come in for praise for reaching out and apologising to the family of the person with COVID-19 who died on the road in the rain while waiting for an ambulance. On Sunday, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah took to Twitter to praise Mr. Anil Kumar and said that he had become a model for bureaucracy. “People also expect such a humane gesture from officials,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-chief-praised/article31998022.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes effected to standing orders||In the midst of COVID-19 pandemic which has resulted in huge job loss across all sectors, the State government has made changes to the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules 1961 to introduce “Fixed term workmen” in the model standing orders. Employment under the “fixed term workmen” category allows flexibility to the industry to hire and fire easily, and is considered to be more flexible than the contract system. Though labourers hired under the system are eligible for all statutory relief, their services can be terminated much easily. The department notified the changes to the 1961 rules on June 30. Trade unions, already fighting against the dilution of labour laws, are expected to take the matter to court. A trade union leader said that the changes to the rules were very regressive to labour and there would be no security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-effected-to-standing-orders/article31998033.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Law being considered to protect senior citizens||To protect senior citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic, the State is likely to introduce a law, according to Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar. “The responsibility of protecting senior citizens is on all of us, especially the young. We are contemplating bringing about a law that will prohibit the movement of such citizens outside their house,” he said, adding that instructions have been given to the task force to subject those above 60 and reporting fever or other serious illnesses to COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/law-being-considered-to-protect-senior-citizens/article31998026.ece
06 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Helpline||Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar has said that if patients encounter any difficulty in getting admission to a private hospital, they may call the 24x7 helpline 1912 to lodge a complaint. “No hospital should refuse to admit patients, and if any hospital is found denying treatment, criminal case will be registered against them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helpline/article31998029.ece
06 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||77-year-old man dies of COVID-19||A 77-year-old person, with co-morbidities, died of COVID-19 here on Saturday night. The Health Department staff had taken throat swab sample from the patient, a native of Arsikere taluk, on July 2. He was admitted to hospital the next day. District Health Officer K.H. Sathish Kumar told media that the patient was put on a ventilator in the ICU. However, he suffered a cardiac arrest and was declared dead. With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths has increased to eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/77-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19/article31998202.ece
06 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.19 lakh fine collected so far||Shivamogga City Corporation has been collecting penalty from people who fail to wear masks and maintain social distancing in public places. So far, the corporation has collected a penalty of Rs. 2.19 lakh. On Saturday, corporation officials collected a penalty of Rs. 9,400. The district administration has appealed to the public to wear face masks and maintain social distancing in public places to avoid the spread of the pandemic. The penalty for not wearing mask is Rs. 200, for failing to maintain social distancing Rs. 200, for spitting in public places Rs. 500 and for chewing gutkha and tobacco products, it is Rs. 500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-219-lakh-fine-collected-so-far/article31998207.ece
06 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Good response in Kalyana Karnataka||The State-wide curfew imposed on Sunday as a step to enforce social distancing to curb the spread of COVID-19 received an overwhelming response in Kalyana Karnataka region comprising Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari districts. All business outlets, except for those offering essential goods and services such as hospitals, medical shops and petrol pumps did not open their shutters in the morning. People were found buying milk at the corners of their residential areas for a couple of hours in the morning. Since the State-run North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) suspended all its bus services and the other public transport service providers such as autorickshaw operators and taxi drivers suspended their operations for the day, vehicular movement in the region’s roads was very thin. People who came to bus stands in towns and cities across the region to take buses to their villages had to suffer a lot as the services were suspended since Saturday night itself. In certain places, including Kalaburagi, even grocery shops on the main roads that came under essential services and exempted from curfew remained closed. To ensure the strict enforcement of the curfew, the Police Department had made elaborate arrangements. It had begun preparing people for the Sunday curfew since Saturday evening through public announcement using loudspeakers in the commercial areas. It deployed forces in crucial places such as supermarket areas in Kalaburagi and Raichur where huge crowds gather on normal days. Police constables on duty were found interrupting private vehicles on roads and sent their owners back to their houses. Sai Baba devotees who came to a shrine in Ballari for special worship on the occasion of Guru Poornima offered their prayers standing in a queue on the road as the shrine was closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-in-kalyana-karnataka/article31998206.ece
06 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Incessant rain washes away bridges in Kalaburagi district||Road connectivity between various villages in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburgi district and in the villages on the Karnataka-Telangana border was cut off as bridges on major stretches were washed away due to incessant rain in the last three days. Two bridges on Chatrasal-Burugapalli Road and Garagpalli-Bhaktampalli Road were badly damaged. Incessant downpour on Thursday and Friday night caused floods in the local tanks and rivulets and the flood waters breached several causeways, snapping road links at more than 15 places in Chincholi taluk. Villagers in low-lying areas were forced to shift their places after the flood waters gushed into houses. As many as 45 houses in Chincholi town, Ainapur and Chandapur were waterlogged. The major connectivity between Somlingadahalli and Kallur, Sangapur and Gopunaik Tanda and Shivrampur and Shahapur was cut off. As a precautionary measure, vehicles were stopped using the bridge across the Kagina river near Malkhed village in Sedam taluk as the bridge is facing the danger of being submerged.  Rescued Fishermen on Friday rescued eight people who were stranded in the Kagina river due to a sudden rise in the water level. These eight people who were stranded on the banks of the river were rescued by a team of Fire and Emergency Servcies officials with the help of local fishermen after an operation that lasted four hours.  Rainfall Kalaburagi district recorded 217 mm rainfall against a normal 182 mm rainfall from July 1 to July 4. Jewargi taluk received 250 mm rainfall, followed by Sedam with 239 mm rainfall. Chittapur received 228 mm rainfall, Chincholi received 213 mm rainfall and Aland and Afzalpur taluk recorded 198 mm rainfall each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/incessant-rain-washes-away-bridges-in-kalaburagi-district/article31998210.ece
06 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Damaged in floods, these bridges are still hanging fire||The devastating floods which hit several parts of the State in the last rainy season either damaged or washed away at least eight suspension or hanging bridges built by ‘bridge man’ Girish Bharadwaj for rural connectivity. Nearly a year after the havoc, the government has restored none of them. Hopes have been raised to restore only two bridges as the government had approved funds, some months ago, for their reconstruction. The damaged bridges were at Dongri, Ramanaguli and Bangane in Uttara Kannada, Mugeradkka in Dakshina Kannada, Khandya in Chikkamagaluru, Modaga, Ramadurga and Ghodageri-Avaragola in Belagavi. Huge trees and debris washed up by the rivers got stuck on the bridges, leading to heavy oscillation, damaging the structures. Of them, the State government has approved funds to reconstruct the ones at Khandya and Dongri, Mr. Bharadwaj, who lives in Sullia in Dakshina Kannada, told The Hindu. “The design for the bridge at Khandya across the Bhadra is ready and the one for building at Dongri across the Gangavali is yet to be prepared,” he, who has been awarded the Padma Shri for rural connectivity by building low cost and eco-friendly bridges, said. The bridge at Khandya connected Khandya with Balegadde. Harish Balegadde, a resident, told The Hindu that the bridge reduced the distance between Balegadde and Khandya from about 10 km to 1 km. “In its absence now we have to take a detour of 20 km (two ways) to frequent between Khandya and Balegadde by a road which passes through a deep forest on an uncomfortable terrain,” he said. “We can’t explain the hardship we have been facing ever since we lost the bridge,” he added. “There is always the threat of wild elephants and other animals on this road,” said Mr. Bharadwaj. Mr. Balegadde said that now the Public Works Department has sanctioned Rs. 3.5 crore to re-build the bridge. In its absence, the government made a boat service to cross the Bhadra which can carry only eight persons at a time. Sanjeeva Matandor, MLA, Puttur, said that the bridge across the Netravathi at Mugeraddka, near Uppinangady, will be rebuilt. The file for sanctioning funds which with the Revenue Department is held up due to the lockdown since March. This bridge connected Mugeraddka with the Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 at Valalu. Without this bridge people have been forced to take a detour of about 18 km to reach Uppinangady. With the bridge Uppinangady was about 5 km away from Mugeradkka. Mr. Bharadwaj said that the bridge across Ghataprabha connecting Ghodageri with Avaragola in Hukkeri taluk which was 290 metres in length was the longest among 138 hanging bridges built by him in the country. He heard that it may not be rebuilt as there is a bridge-cum-barrage at some distance from the damaged hanging bridge. He said that he is not aware of the government’s plans about restoring other bridges. He added that the bridges to which funds have been approved could be restored only after this rainy season ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/damaged-in-floods-these-bridges-are-still-hanging-fire/article31998031.ece
06 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railway Ministry’s move to reduce II sleeper coaches on long-distance trains draws flak||The Railway Ministry’s decision to standardise LHB rakes of long-distance non-premium trains with seven II sleeper and six 3 tier AC coaches has not gone down well with patrons who criticised the move to reduce sleeper coaches and increase 3 tier AC coaches saying that it will adversely affect the common man. The Ministry on June 24 directed all zonal railways to standardise LHB rakes of all long-distance trains to improve the punctuality of trains, for optimum utilisation of rakes and for enabling inter-operability. While patrons have no issues with premium (air-conditioned) trains, they are miffed with the Ministry’s decision to change the coach composition of mail/express trains. As per the directive, long-distance non-premium trains would also have four unreserved, two 2 tier AC, one pantry car, one power car and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches, totalling 22 coaches. Meanwhile, K.N. Krishna Prasad said that there should be at least 10 sleeper coaches in a rake for the benefit of the common man. Hemanth Kumar said that coach composition should be decided by the respective divisions depending upon the passenger requirement at the local level and the Ministry cannot enforce this. The move forces people to opt for AC coaches when sleeper coaches are full, he said. Pradeep Kumar Pawar said that AC coaches are predominantly used in the North while people in the South prefer sleeper coaches. Abhishek said that all trains do not need 2 tier AC while a few 3 tier AC coaches were sufficient. Yogendra Swamy said that uniform standardisation of rakes was not advisable in a country that has different climatic conditions in its various regions. Regarding premium day-time services such as Shatabdi trains, the Ministry said that they should have 14 Chair Cars, two Executive CCs and two power cars. Non-premium day services should have two AC Chair Cars, 12 second sitting, two unreserved and one each power car and luggage-cum-guard van coaches. Long-distance premium trains should have 12 3 tier AC, five 2 tier AC, two 1A, one pantry and two power car coaches, the Ministry said. The Ministry said that this standardisation should be given effect to from the No Booking date. In case 22 coaches could not be accommodated due to infrastructure constraints such as short length pit-line/platform, zonal railways may give effect to standardisation depot-wise, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-ministrys-move-to-reduce-ii-sleeper-coaches-on-long-distance-trains-draws-flak/article31998212.ece
06 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||147 new COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada||In the highest single-day spike of COVID-19 positive cases, Dakshina Kannada reported 147 new cases on Sunday. With this, the number of active cases in the district rose to 666. According to a release from the district administration, of the new cases, 48 persons were found positive during random tests. It said that 40 cases were related to those who had ILI, 35 were primary contacts and two had SARI. The release said that eight persons had travel history from Saudi Arabia, Muscat and Dubai. Two persons had travelled by ship from Malayasia. Seven persons had history of travelling from Bengaluru, Mumbai and Bihar. While two cases each were related to the collection of pre-samples before surgery, one case was related to collection before biopsy. It said that 10 patients are being treated in ICU and 38 patients were released after treatment. A release from the Udupi district administration said that the district reported 45 new cases on Sunday taking the number of active cases to 183.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/147-new-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada/article31998209.ece
06 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Poojary tests positive||Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to a private hospital in the city for treatment. In a statement to mediapersons on July 5, his elder son Santhosh J. Poojary said that there was no cause for worry and that he has been admitted to the hospital as a precaution. He said that the Congress leader was asymptomatic and his samples had been collected on July 4. The former Union Minister lived in Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-poojary-tests-positive/article31998036.ece
06 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State tobacco farmers seek concession on penalty levied on unauthorised crop||Tobacco farmers in Karnataka, who pay a penalty for unauthorised or excess crop every year, are looking forward to a concession from the Centre this year in view of a similar gesture extended to their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh. While thousands in Karnataka grow the crop without licenses issued by the Tobacco Board, most licensed farmers also grow tobacco in addition to their authorised quota every year, coughing up crores of rupees in penalty. However, the farmers are hoping save a good portion of the penalty this year after the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry decided to bring down the penalty as a gesture to the farmers of Andhra Pradesh, who had been hit hard by the fall in prices of tobacco due to COVID-19. The penalty was brought down to 10% from the regular 15% levied on the proceeds of the sale of tobacco cultivated by unlicensed growers. The penalty levied on licensed growers for cultivating excess tobacco over and above the limit of 10% of their authorised quota has also been brought down to 10% from the regular 15% of the proceeds of the sale. Also, the penalty levied on licensed growers for cultivating excess tobacco of upto 10% of their authorised quota had been brought down from 7.5% to 5% of the proceeds of the sale. Though the Centre’s notification, issued on June 26, 2020, specifically pertains to Andhra Pradesh, president of Virginia Flue Cured (VFC) Tobacco Growers’ Federation of Karnataka Javare Gowda said the same concession has to be extended to tobacco growers in Karnataka too when the auction season here starts in September this year. The notification has been issued for Andhra Pradesh farmers now as their auction season is under way. “Now, Karnataka farmers too will have the right to claim the concession when our auction season starts here,” he reasoned. The concluding auction season in Karnataka saw tobacco crop surpassing the ceiling of 100 million kg fixed by the Tobacco Board by recording a sale of 106 million kg, making penalty applicable on more than 6 million kg of tobacco that had been cultivated either in excess of the quota by licensed growers or grown by unlicensed tobacco. Mr. Gowda estimates that the tobacco farmers of Karnataka coughed up anywhere between Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 crore during the concluding auction season. The penalty thus collected on the proceeds of the sale is contributed to the Tobacco Fund along with Rs. 2 for every kg of excess and unauthorized tobacco. For 2020-21, the Tobacco Board had initially fixed a crop size of 99 million kg in Karnataka, but later brought it down to 88 million kg in view of the likely dip in global demand due to the pandemic. Each of the estimated 56,000 licensed tobacco growers in Karnataka are permitted to grow upto 1,552 kgs. Tobacco grown over and above the authorised quota of 1,552 kg by each licensed farmer can be sold only by payment of penalty. Meanwhile, sources in the Tobacco Board in Karnataka confirmed that the concession is likely to be extended to farmers in Karnataka also. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha too had taken up the matter by writing to the officials in the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Tobacco Board in New Delhi seeking concession to farmers in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-tobacco-farmers-seek-concession-on-penalty-levied-on-unauthorised-crop/article31998035.ece
06 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Rs. 3,000 fine per tonne of sand illegally transported||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has directed the officials of departments concerned to collect a fine of Rs. 3,000 per tonne of sand illegally transported. He was addressing a meeting of officials in Raichur recently. “As per the State government’s new sand policy, fine would be imposed per tonne basis. If any illegal sand extraction was found, Rs. 3,000 per tonne fine would be collected,” he said and added that apart from fine, criminal action would be taken against those responsible for the illegal act. Every vehicle transporting sand should have a certificate from RTO officials for carrying sand with weight measurement. “As much as 25 tonnes of sand will be allowed to be carried on a truck with 14 wheels, followed by 22 tonnes for trucks with 12 wheels and 18 tonnes for trucks with 10 wheels. However, there are many complaints that trucks were carrying sand beyond the permitted weight and also of illegal sand extraction. Officials should implement the new sand policy and impose fine and take action accordingly,” the Deputy Commissioner said. Strict action should be initiated against those storing sand illegally. All check-posts should have CCTV cameras and activities in the check-posts should be observed from the control room which would be established in the offices of Tahsildars and also the Deputy Commissioner’s to prevent illegal sand extraction in the district, he said. Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, Additional Superintendent of Police Sri Haribabu, Assistant Commissioner of Raichur sub-division Santosh Kamagowda, Assistant Commissioner of Lingsugur sub-division Rajshekhar Dambal, Tahsildar Hampanna, senior officer of Mines and Geology Department M. Vishwanth and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-3000-fine-per-tonne-of-sand-illegally-transported/article31998214.ece
06 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner, Superintendent of Police undergo COVID-19 test||Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane and Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakah Rajput underwent COVID-19 tests voluntarily in Yadgir on Saturday and also appealed to the general public, who are suffering from fever, cold and cough, though they do not have any COVID-19 symptoms, to undergo tests to prevent the spread of the pandemic effectively. As many as 221 staff members and other officers of the district administration have already undergone COVID-19 tests, Mr. Rajput has said. A total of 27,053 samples have been collected and sent for testing and of these, 25,543 turned negative, while 970 were positive. A mobile van has been arranged to collect samples from the public, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioner-superintendent-of-police-undergo-covid-19-test/article31998208.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Girl refused treatment by 4 private hospitals||A 17-year-old girl suffering from breathing problems had to run around the city for treatment after four private hospitals allegedly refused to admit her on Saturday night. The girl, a resident of Koushika on the outskirts of Hassan city, developed breathing problem late at night. Her family members took her to private hospitals. Akmal Javed, a social activist, told The Hindu that she was taken to four well-established private hospitals. “I met them when they were at the fourth hospital. In all the places, the staff members refused to admit her. They suggested the family members to take her to the COVID hospital at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The staff members at one hospital even called up the police to send them out,” he said. Finally, the family took her to HIMS, where she was admitted as a non-COVID patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-refused-treatment-by-4-private-hospitals/article31998010.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||There is plenty of hype around the SSLC examination year after year, as if the lives of parents and students depend on them. This year, that seemed to literally be the case, with the exam being held(in picture)in the midst of a pandemic, despite criticism from a section that thought it was too risky and put students in danger. On its part, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education left no stone unturned to convince people that all was well. The officials and Minister S. Suresh Kumar held press briefings daily and even began announcing “highlights” after each paper. One such briefing was on how teachers and School Development and Monitoring Committee members had persuaded a student to write the exam even after the student’s mother’s death. Another story was of a girl who travelled over 20 km to write the exam despite burn injuries. But what do these examples really convey? Are they stories of brave youngsters taking on challenges against all odds, or are we trying to push children into believing that nothing can be more important than the SSLC exam?   Clearly, former Minister A.H. Vishwanath(in picture)does not want former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah to assume the mantle of a backward class leader in the State. Mr. Vishwanath, who minces no words while criticising Mr. Siddaramaiah for “trampling” upon the political careers of fellow backward class leaders such as him, now sees Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the icon of the backward classes. After Mr. Siddaramaiah’s recent tirade against Mr. Modi for his handling of the stand-off with China and the COVID-19 pandemic, during which he called the Prime Minister “unfit”, Mr. Vishwanath rushed to the BJP leader’s defence. The former Minister, who was a bitter critic of the BJP and its “communal politics” before he decided to join the party, now sees Mr. Modi not only as the true inheritor of the late Chief Minister Devaraj Urs’ legacy of backward class leadership, but also as the country’s first AHINDA Prime Minister. It remains to be seen if the constituents of AHINDA (an acronym for minorities, backward classes, and Dalits) are in agreement with Mr. Vishwanath, who is hopeful of entering Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s Cabinet soon.   During the 2018 Assembly elections, the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah(in picture)used to take jibes at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for sharing the stage with B.S. Yediyurappa, who is now Chief Minister, because the latter had gone to jail over corruption charges. Now, after nearly two years, Mr. Siddaramaiah has been sharing the stage with Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar, who had gone to Tihar Jail in the national capital for his alleged role in money laundering. The former Chief Minister has been not just sharing the dais with Mr. Shivakumar, but has also attended meetings called by the latter at the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee office. Mr. Siddaramaiah appears well-served by selective amnesia. Tanu Kulkarni Laiqh A. Khan Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article31998017.ece
06 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||13 in Alappuzha test positive for SARS-CoV-2||The number of COVID-19 cases continues to rise in the district with 13 more testing positive on Sunday. Of these, 11 came from abroad and one from Mumbai. One person contracted the disease through contact. Among the foreign returnees, four had come from Saudi Arabia. A young man from Venmony reached the district on June 15. A 63-year-old native of Vandanam came on June 30. Two persons, a young man from Ambalappuzha and a 58-year-old woman from Alappuzha, came on July 1. From Kuwait Another three came from Kuwait. A teenager from Ambalappuzha reached the district on June 18. Two young men hailing from Veliyanad and Mannar came on June 28 and June 30 respectively. Two persons, a young man from Budhanoor and a 60-year-old native of Ambalappuzha, came back from Qatar on June 12 and June 18 respectively. A 51-year-old man from Bharanikavu reached the district from Bahrain on June 23. A young man from Ambalappuzha came from the UAE on June 14. The person from Mumbai who is a native of Ambalappuzha came by train on June 25. A young man hailing from Venmony contracted SARS-CoV-2 through contact. Officials said it was suspected that he contracted the disease while undergoing treatment for other ailments at a private hospital at Thiruvalla. The source of his infection is unknown. The source of infection of at least five persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district last week remains unidentified. District Collector A. Alexander urged people to maintain utmost caution to prevent the spread of the disease. He said that the source of infection of a couple of cases reported from the coastal belt in recent days was yet to be traced. “People living along the coastal belt in the district should maintain caution. People should avoid unnecessary house visits and get-togethers,” Mr. Alexander said. Containment zones Meanwhile, the government has declared ward 15 in Ezhupunna, ward 2 in Ambalappuzha South and ward 7 in Cheriyanad grama panchayat as containment zones. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 199.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13-in-alappuzha-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2/article31998435.ece
06 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Project to eradicate invasive plants||Forest Minister K. Raju has said that endemic species of plants would be planted in the forest areas of the State in a time-bound manner to contain the rampant growth of invasive plants, especially Senna spectabilis. Speaking after inaugurating the State-level invasive plants eradication project at Kuppadi near Sulthan Bathery in the district on Sunday through video-conferencing, Mr. Raju said that it would take nearly four years to complete the project. The scheme is mainly aimed at eradicating Senna spectabilis which has been posing a major threat to the forest areas of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve (NBR), including the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, owing to its quick growth. The plant was found in nearly 10 sqkm area of the 344.44 sqkm sanctuary around five years ago. Now, it had invaded to more than 50 sqkm of the sanctuary. Earlier, it was planted as avenue trees in Wayanad. The Minister also inaugurated six newly-constructed model forest stations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-eradicate-invasive-plants/article31998306.ece
06 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Palmyras to serve as shield against wildlife||The Forest Department is introducing palmyra bio-fencing on the forest fringes of the Kottiyoor Wildlife Sanctuary to reduce human-wildlife conflict. The project is being implemented over a kilometre of forest fringes of the sanctuary. About 4,000 saplings would be planted as part of the project, which is based on a successful model implemented in Sri Lanka. The saplings would be planted and conserved with the support of local people. Forest Department officials hope that the local populace would benefit from the venture. Apart from acting as a bulwark against crop-raiding elephants, the trees, when fully grown, will provide food items such as nong , neera, and palm sugar. Palm leaves, fibre, and palm wood can be used to make handicrafts and furniture. Jointly with Kelpalm This project is being implemented as part of the forest festival by the Aralam Wildlife Division for the Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department in collaboration with the Kerala State Palmyrah Products Development and Workers Welfare Corporation Limited (Kelpalm). It was inaugurated at the Kottiyoor Kandapunnam Forest Dormitory Hall. Minister for Forests K. Raju inaugurated the project online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palmyras-to-serve-as-shield-against-wildlife/article31998339.ece
06 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||39-year-old man hacked to death||A 39-year-old Communist Party of India (Marxist) activist was hacked to death at Kannavath, near Koothuparamba, early on Sunday. The victim has been identified as V.K Rajesh, son of Raghavan. The police said the murder took place at Thodiyakulam. Preliminary investigation does not indicate any political tension and it could be a dispute between friends, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/39-year-old-man-hacked-to-death/article31998324.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Aluva market closed after auto driver tests positive||The Aluva main market was shut down on Sunday after an autorickshaw driver tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The driver, hailing from Kunjunnikkara near Uliyannoor, had been using the autorickshaw stand in front of the Aluva market. He had sought medical care at the Karothukuzhi hospital and had also visited an insurance office near the Pump Junction in Aluva town. His primary contacts are being traced. The market may be allowed to reopen for wholesale business after four days, but there is no certainty. It will not, however, allow retail sales until the shutdown is completely withdrawn after seven days. Nazeer Babu, president of Aluva Merchants’ Association, said that Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar had convened a meeting of merchants and traders at the Aluva Palace at 10.30 a.m. on Monday. A decision on the future course of action was expected to emerge during the meeting, he said. Jeby Mather Hisham, councillor of Pulichuvadu ward in Aluva municipality, said there had been a swell in the number of people visiting the Aluva main market after the Ernakulam market was closed to contain the spread of COVID-19. Efforts to impose physical distancing had not seen good results. All non-essential services and shops on the roads parallel to the national highway too have been asked to remain shut for four days. Health standing committee chairman of the municipality Timmy Teacher said barricades were erected to control the crowd but it had no effect on the people. The closure of the Ernakulam market had resulted in a big rush at the Aluva market, she added. District Collector S. Suhas visited some of the containment zones in the city on Sunday. He visited Palarivattom and Vyttila to take stock of implementation of COVID-19 norms. The police have erected barricades at the entrances and exits of the containment zones that include Divisions 43, 44, 46, 55 and 56 of the Kochi Corporation. Meanwhile, former Member of Parliament K.V. Thomas has appealed to the Chief Minister to ensure that essential services were available in containment zones. Mr. Thomas said that in some of the containment zones even medical shops were not being opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aluva-market-closed-after-auto-driver-tests-positive/article31998310.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Church conservation nearing completion||A conservation initiative of a 500-year-old church at Venduruthy, which dates back to the Portuguese arrival in Kochi, is nearing completion. Around 70% of the PAMA project to support the conservation and documentation of the St. Peter and Paul Church is over, said researcher-cum-conservator Satyajith Ibn. PAMA is an institute for advancement of transdisciplinary sciences. It all began when Father Alphonse, vicar of the church, noticed relics and architectural remains in pits and floor below the sanctuary during a renovation work under the guidance of heritage sensitive architect Leo Francis. Father Alphonse carefully collected them and sought the help of PAMA to identify the artefacts and other items and document them for future generations. A team comprising former Director of Kerala Council for Historical Research P.J. Cherian, who is also director of PAMA; geologist Linto Alappat, Satyajith Ibn, Sidhartha Saha, Miriam Collins, and Amrutha Solly cleaned, identified, and documented the finds and started contextualising them. The lowest level of the relics and pits below the sanctuary brought out interesting evidence of the origins of the pre-1599 context and three architectural phases of post-1599 church context. They comprised pottery shreds, including Chinese wares and various types medieval roofing tiles popularly known as ‘koorayodu’. The project is now entering its final stage of research, conservation, and in-situ display of the structural features. “Most of the finds were near the altar. Efforts are under way to enable visitors to view them, while not in any way disturbing them. We will also restore the floor, which was earlier made of a lime mixture, as part of preventive conservation that is under way,” Mr. Ibn said. An important feature is a post hole identified by Father Alphonse, which inspired him to think of the humble pre-modern beginnings of a “sacred” space before the formally known date of the establishment of the church in 1599. Interestingly, the three phases discerned from the geological, archaeological and architectural features tally with the oral traditions and limited documents available on the church. Accordingly, the first phase of the church built by the native Christian community (date unknown) is said to have become a formal church in 1599, during the Portuguese era. The third phase begins in 1788 when the present church was built by Luka Padri and Mikhael Kapithan. The researchers are also making efforts to locate reliable documentary evidence to understand the phases more clearly from archival sources inside and outside the country, Father Alphonse said. Mr. Ibn had evolved a plan to commence the conservation and restoration work within a fortnight after cleaning and finalising the dimensions of the features, for a glassed display of the six locales. The researcher/conservation team is on the lookout to recruit students inclined to architectural conservation. Write to pamatatas@gmail.com or call 884-8566748, 94962 76136 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-conservation-nearing-completion/article31998314.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||66-year-old patient dies in district||A 66-year-old Thoppumpady resident died of COVID-19 in the city on Sunday. He had been receiving treatment at the Kalamassery Government Medical College Hospital from June 28 and had been in a serious condition in the ICU after having developed pneumonia. He had been receiving treatment for diabetes for a while. He had a godown near the Ernakulam market area to which 12 cases in the city have been traced. Of the 135 swabs collected from the area around the market, 127 have returned negative results and the other results are awaited. The district also recorded 12 positive cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Three of these were cases of local transmission of the pandemic. A 30-year-old from Palippuram, who had visited a hospital in North Paravur with symptoms, has tested positive with no travel history or source of infection. Health officials are in the process of preparing the contact list. A 59-year-old from Edathala who was on the primary contact list of a patient from Thrikkakara who had tested positive on Saturday with no obvious source of infection, has also tested positive. He was symptomatic and had informed health officials that he had come in contact with the Thrikkakara native last month. A 40-year-old staff member working at a private prepaid taxi counter at the Cochin International Airport has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A resident of Nedumbassery, she is suspected to have contracted it from the airport, health officials said. The contacts of the patient were being gathered with a record of the taxis that were operated from the airport. A 36-year-old who returned from Chennai via flight, a 25-year-old native of Edakkattuvayal who returned from Kuwait, a 46-year-old who returned from Dammam, a 36-year-old who returned from New Delhi via flight, two returnees from Dubai and a 25-year-old who returned from Chennai by road have tested positive. For the five positive cases recorded on Saturday with no known source of infection, 128 primary contacts have been identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/66-year-old-patient-dies-in-district/article31998318.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam on the edge of community spread: official||Ernakulam district could probably be at the edge of an early phase of community spread of COVID-19, said Dr. A. Fathahudeen, nodal officer for COVID-19 care in Ernakulam and Vice Principal of the Government Medical College, has said. The cluster of cases points to the fact that community spread might not be a myth, he said. “Community spread might not be surprising because of the contagious behaviour of the virus. It is humanly impossible for us to completely prevent it,” said Dr. Fathahudeen. On Saturday, the district had recorded six cases with no obvious source of infection. “But we are probably only on the edge of an early phase, where we have enhanced containment measures in place such as contact tracing, testing and isolation,” he said. If this stage was allowed to advance, none of the containment measures would work, he said. Testing all cases would then become nearly impossible, and tracing the index case would become difficult. “So, it is high time that we went in for a triple lockdown,” he said. In this early stage, as in the situation on Saturday, it might be possible to trace only about 50% of the contacts of the core case, he said. “We can never completely trace the source in the case of a community spread.” “Early indicators of a large-scale spread are a large number of cases in clusters from multiple places, and a considerable number of patients admitted to hospitals in the late phase of the disease with advanced pneumonia and critical illnesses. A third indicator would be a large admission rate in all hospitals. None of this is happening yet, which means we are still at the edge of an early phase of community spread,” he said. “But it might not take much time for the phase to move into an advanced phase. It can happen any time unless we are very strict with early contact tracing, quarantine, testing and isolation,” he said.  We can never completely trace the source in the case of a community spread A. Fathahudeen Nodal officer, COVID-19 care||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-on-the-edge-of-community-spread-official/article31998312.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chambakkara market readies for opening tomorrow||Amid fears of a possible intervention by authorities to shut down the Chambakkara fish market, the stakeholders met here on Sunday and decided to reopen the market on Tuesday, after putting in place crowd control measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The meeting was attended by fish workers, brokers, wholesalers and retailers as well as representatives of the health wing of the Kochi Corporation. The meeting decided that the market would remain closed on Monday to make arrangements for the reopening on Tuesday. The market remained shut on Sunday with no business transactions, a practice in place since the start of the lockdown in March. “We have decided to open the market with strict instructions to buyers and sellers,” said Corporation councillor V.P. Chandran, who is also the chairman of the Chambakkara Market Samrakshana Samithi, which will oversee the new arrangements. Chambakkara market is basically a wholesalers’ hub and they will get first preference. The wholesale business will take place between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. This will be followed by retail buyers between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. People will be allowed to enter the market in groups of 50 only. Each group will be given 30 minutes to complete their transactions and leave the space for the next batch. A counter will be established to provide passes to those coming to do business at the market. Only those with the passes will be allowed in. Masks and physical distancing will be compulsory. Sanitisation aspects too would be taken care of, said Mr. Chandran. Those who come to the market will have to furnish their names, addresses and contact details before entering. Violation of norms The decision to place curbs on the volume of people in the market comes in the wake of the city police arresting 20 people on Saturday after they were found violating COVID-19 norms. Though they were released on bail later in the day, the Corporation health authorities and the police issued a warning that if the violations continued, the market might be shut down. Corporation Secretary Rahul R. Pillai said those who transacted business in the market had to take a decision on following norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19. It has been learnt that the Corportion will discuss on Monday issues related to markets such as Chambakkara that had posed a threat of spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chambakkara-market-readies-for-opening-tomorrow/article31998316.ece
06 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||After protests, AMMA meeting dispersed||The executive committee meeting of the Association of Malayalam Movie Artists (AMMA) that was held here on Sunday to discuss, among other things, the producers’ association’s request that actors reduce their rate, had to be dispersed without taking any decision, following protests against holding the meeting at a luxury hotel located in a containment zone. Leading the protest in front of a hotel here were Congress activists, who were joined by P.M. Naseema, councillor of the Chakkaraparambu division of the Kochi Corporation. AMMA general secretary Edavela Babu denied reports that the actors’ body had agreed to slash remuneration by up to 50%, as requested by the producers’ association. “We did not take a decision though it was one of the items in the agenda. No discussion could be held. There was nothing to be urgently discussed and there were only nine actors,” he said. MACTA denies reports MACTA chairman Jayaraj said the body did not intervene in work or wage related issues of actors. The MACTA did not have any role in reports that workers had agreed to slash rate by 50% and daily-wage staff by 25%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-protests-amma-meeting-dispersed/article31998345.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL audits measures||The third phase of the audit of measures being implemented by the Cochin International Airport authorities to prevent the spread of COVID-19 will be undertaken now. The step follows a woman employee at the taxi counter at the airport being tested positive for COVID-19. The airport authority said that the third phase of the audit was to make sure that no loopholes were left in the precautionary meausres. The employee had informed her superiors immediately after she developed mild symptoms on June 24. Masks, gloves, personal protection gears, and face shields had been supplied to all the employees and the airport was leaving nothing to chance, said a communication here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-audits-measures/article31998311.ece
06 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Firms defer campus recruitment plans||The COVID-19 crisis has taken a toll on the campus placement prospects of B.Tech. students. Hiring plans are likely to get delayed across sectors this year as recruiters reel under the financial impact of the pandemic outbreak. The majority of regular companies that visit campuses here have informed the authorities that the recruitment calendar will skip the usual October-November season this time. “Companies are yet to give any commitment on their recruitment plans for the forthcoming recruitment cycle. Recruiters have informed that the pandemic has resulted in hiring plans getting stretched,” said Jacob Elias, Chief Placement Officer and Professor, School of Engineering at Cochin University of Science and Technology. M.V. Rajesh, Training and Placement Officer and Associate Professor at Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, said that companies continued to defer jobs offered to students who finished their course this year. “A leading company that had offered attractive placements has now postponed its plans stating that they lack clarity on when the situation will turn normal,” he said. Placement officers said that 90% of the recruitment was being done by IT companies. Job offers by core companies had also dipped as the COVID-19 situation had affected their financial prospects considerably. The crisis has also hit the internship programme undertaken by engineering students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firms-defer-campus-recruitment-plans/article31998319.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Indiscriminate stripping while lodging in jail illegal’||The Ernakulam Additional Sessions Court has ruled that indiscriminate stripping while admitting a person to jail in a routine manner is illegal. The court made the observation in its order on a petition filed by Roopesh, an accused in custody at the Central Prison at Viyyur, on charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for alleged Maoist activities. He had alleged grave human rights violations in the high-security prison and sought a directive to implement prison rules. It is to be concluded that indiscriminate stripping while admitting to jail, cellular confinement during the day except on a few occasions, and the installation of CCTV camera even to cover the toilet in the cell are illegal, said the order issued by P. Krishna Kumar, Additional Sessions Judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/indiscriminate-stripping-while-lodging-in-jail-illegal/article31998320.ece
06 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vazhakkan lashes out at survey||Political surveys held in the State could be attempts to destabilise the UDF, said KPCC vice-president Joseph Vazhakkan. The survey on the upcoming Assembly elections was held at a time when even the fate of civic body elections was unknown. The public relations agency of the Chief Minister was working overtime in the State. The UDF will stand by the people of the State , he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vazhakkan-lashes-out-at-survey/article31998338.ece
06 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Route maps of two patients released in Kollam||The Health Department on Sunday released route maps of the two persons who tested positive for the virus without any travel history. While the first patient is an 80-year-old from Kottarakkara, the other is a 33-year-old Neendakara resident who runs a shop at Pulamon junction. The 80-year-old person with urological problems had visited Gokulam Medical College on June 24 with three relatives. On the way back, they stopped at a restaurant in Kilimanoor for lunch and reached home at around 3 p.m. From June 25 to 28, he visited Kunnikode market and a nearby bakery. He also spoke to some construction workers and prayed at the chapel. On June 29, he visited Gokulam Medical College once again for scanning and had lunch from the hospital canteen. On June 30, he visited Vijaya Hospital with symptoms and the next day, he was taken to Gokulam Medical College and admitted in the ICU. The Neendakara resident used to travel from his house at Vellayittambalam to his shop at Kottarakkara riding a two-wheeler with a friend. On June 28, he offered prayers at the chapels of Kureepuzha church and Kadavoor church. The same day, he travelled with his wife and children in the car and spent some time at the house of a friend who lives in Pallithottam. On July 1, he developed symptoms and his sample was collected the next day. He was shifted to Government Medical College, Parippally, after he tested positive on Saturday.  Containment zones Since the source of both patients could not be traced, the district administration declared division 53 of Kollam Corporation, ward 2,4,6,7 and 8 of Kottarakkara municipality, and 15th ward of Melila grama panchayat as containment zones. Bus depot closed The Kottarakkara KSRTC depot has suspended services and KSRTC buses coming from other places will be operating without touching the depot. The buses from Thiruvananthapuram will end service at Karikkakam and those from Adoor and Punalur will ply up to Mylam and Chengamand respectively. Kollam-Kottarakkara services will operated till the Railway Station Junction. Buses from Parippally will stop service at Thrikkannamangal and those from Puthur will operate only till Avannoor. No services will be operated from the depot until further notice and no buses will be allowed to enter the depot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/route-maps-of-two-patients-released-in-kollam/article31998383.ece
06 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||10 more test positive||Ten persons, including a one-year-old child, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Among them, eight persons are from abroad, one is from Hyderabad and the last one has no travel history. The patients include two persons from Kuwait, two from Qatar, two from Dammam, and one each from Dubai and Moscow. The cases were reported from Arinallur, Karungappally, Moothakara, Thodiyoor, Mylakkad, Nilamel, Kuttivattam, and Pattazhy. COVID in one-year-old The one-year-old from Arinallur is the son of a person who was tested SARS-CoV-2 positive on July 4 and they had travelled from Hyderabad. The 27-year-old Karunagapplly resident had travelled with her two-year-old son from Dammam, reaching Kollam on June 11. Another 26-year-old from Karungappally has no travel history and she was tested positive while undergoing treatment for other ailments. While the 41-year-old Moothakara resident had arrived from Dubai on June 21, the 47-year-old Thodiyoor resident had travelled from Kuwait, reaching Kollam on June 25. The 38-year-old Mylakkad resident from Qatar and 40-year-old Kuttivattam resident from Kuwait had reached on June 26 and June 30 respectively. The 21-year-old Nilamel resident had arrived in Kollam on June 16 travelling from Moscow. The 49-year-old Pattazhy resident had reached Kollam on June 16 from Qatar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-more-test-positive/article31998382.ece
06 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||For whom do the water lilies bloom||The pink carpets of water lilies, which took the State by storm last year, have once again made their way to the backwater villages here. But this time, there is no one to gaze in wonder at these vast vistas of flowers. The COVID-19-induced crisis has now cast a shadow over a series of events based on the flowering season. Though the lilies have begun to bloom since the onset of the monsoon, the flowering locations have been made off-limits and people from other areas are banned from visiting these spots. The residents of Malarikkal confirm that at least 700 acres of paddy fields in the village’s interior have turned into a sea of colour with the flowering of lilies. But following a directive from the district administration, no boats have been made available for the tourists to reach these locations. “There have not been a single visitor till now. We, however, are still hopeful of going ahead with the festival after the Onam as there are still about 40 days left for the farming works to begin. By that time, the blooming splendour is expected to expand to more areas and reach its peak,” said K. Anil Kumar, convener of the Meenchilar-Meenantharayar-Kodooraar River Linking Programme. Around 80,000 people visited Malarikkal alone during the flowering season last year while 120 boat rowers, who ferried these visitors, together earned around Rs. 12 lakh. Buoyed by the visitor influx, the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission identified 15 locations for tourism promotion. “We established supporting mechanisms at these locations and even kickstarted a marketing campaign when the activities came to halt. Events based on this natural show, which typically extends up to December at some locations, can be revived once normality is restored,” said K. Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator, RT Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-whom-do-the-water-lilies-bloom/article31998342.ece
06 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Eight cases in Kottayam||As many as eight persons, including three members of a family from Erumeli, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Sunday. Two of the eight patients landed from abroad while the remaining six persons had come from other States. At the same time, five persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from various hospitals here. With this, the number of active cases in Kottayam has become 114. The persons who tested positive during the day were: a 30-year-old Kanjirappalli native and a 39-year-old Vazhappalli native who returned from New Delhi; a 43-year-old Madappalli native who returned from Muscat; a 30-year-old man hailing from Velloor who returned from Qatar; and a 34-year-old health worker who came back from Faridabad. The remaining three were a 40-year-old man, his 36-year-old wife, and their three-and-a-half-year-old daughter who had come back from New Delhi and were undergoing home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-cases-in-kottayam/article31998428.ece
06 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man under isolation dies||A 45-year-old man from Kottayam, who had been under home isolation after returning from abroad, collapsed and died here on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Madhu Jayakumar, a native of Poovanthuruth near here, landed from Dubai on June 26. Health officials said the person had been suffering from asthma and epilepsy and was found dead in his bedroom in the morning. Upon an alert, health officials shifted the body to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, while a TrueNat test confirmed that the person had not contracted the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-under-isolation-dies/article31998429.ece
06 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Basheer commemorated on 26th death anniversary||Khadeeja, Pathukutty, and Arifa, the three living characters of the inimitable Vaikom Muhammad Basheer, inaugurated a gathering to commemorate the author on the occasion of his 26th death anniversary at Thalayolaparambu here on Sunday. The function, held at the residence of Abu — the author’s brother — was also attended by several of his family members and cultural activists. Muhammad Shafi, grandson of Basheer’s brother, too was present. The Basheer Smaraka Trust also held a function to observe the death anniversary. P.K. Harikumar, former president of the State Library Council, inaugurated the event. The author, who was born at Thalayolaparambu, lived here from 1960 to 1964. It was during his stay at the house here that he penned the screenplay of the Malayalam hit Bhargavi Nilayam . The property was later sold to the Federal Bank authorities and named Federal Nilayam in honour of the classic work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/basheer-commemorated-on-26th-death-anniversary/article31998427.ece
06 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU Syndicate reconstituted||The State government has reconstituted the Syndicate of Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU). Apart from the ex officio members, only two members from the previous Syndicate — S. Sujatha, Principal, NSS College, Changanassery, and A. Jose, a CPI nominee — have retained their place on the new committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-syndicate-reconstituted/article31998426.ece
06 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Crackdown on violations at shops||More stringent measures are on the cards for controlling the rush of customers in supermarkets and other major trade points in Kozhikode city in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases. Health Department and police squads have been asked to conduct frequent checks to ensure the compliance of safety norms. Entry of customers into shops without wearing masks or using hand sanitisers will be dealt with seriously. Station House Officers within the city limits have been asked to conduct special drives to crack down on such open violations. Corporation officials said licences of over 40 shops had already been suspended for not complying with the Health Department’s directives. Action would be taken against those who visit shops and other open markets without following safety guidelines. Entry of more than 25 persons in big shops at a time will not be permitted. Shop owners have been asked to ensure that customers follow physical-distancing norms. They should provide hand sanitisers to customers before entering shops. Vigil at market At Valiyangadi, where one trader tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, surveillance measures will be taken to monitor the entry of vehicles, drivers and labourers who come to the spot for loading and unloading works. Arrangements will be made to record registration numbers of all vehicles entering the market and details of drivers. Due to the lack of clarity on the actual source of the virus infection in three new cases, the district administration has called for improving surveillance measures at all possible levels by local bodies. All those who recently came in contact with COVID-19 positive cases have been sent into home quarantine. In the list of primary contacts, there are 21 persons now. The secondary list of contacts includes other 72 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crackdown-on-violations-at-shops/article31998296.ece
06 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Farmers seek relocation of forest offices to villages||Upland farmers from over eight grama panchayats have come together to launch an intensive public campaign seeking the relocation of the urban offices of senior Forest Department officials to villages, where man-animal conflict and crop loss are on the rise. The decision to proceed with the campaign was taken following a series of incidents in which Forest officials had locked horns with farmers and charged the latter with encroachment and poaching. “We are witnessing a peculiar situation where senior Forest officials working from the comfort of their metro offices overlooking farmers’ issues and taking hostile decisions against them. Such officials should shift bases to villages, so that they get to see the actual problems facing farmers,” said Johnson Kulathingal, a farmer organisation leader and coordinator of the campaign. According to him, the presence of senior officers in rural areas will impel their subordinates to act sensibly when it comes to forest land issues. Mr. Kulathingal said range-level officials were not taking up local issues with the higher-ups with due seriousness, as a result of which, farmers were turning victims of biased actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-seek-relocation-of-forest-offices-to-villages/article31998295.ece
06 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Yellow alert in Kozhikode||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a yellow alert for Monday and Tuesday in Kozhikode district, predicting a rainfall within the range of 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm during the period. Those staying in areas prone to soil erosion and landslips, and on river banks need to be careful. Residents of coastal areas too need to be on alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-kozhikode/article31998301.ece
06 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Youth’s body recovered||Fire and Rescue Services squad with the support of community rescue volunteers on Sunday recovered the body of a 22-year-old youth who went missing in the Iruvazhinji river. The police identified the victim as James, son of Shenoy, hailing from Nellippoyil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-body-recovered/article31998302.ece
06 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||12 kg of ganja seized; 2 held||The Kunnamangalam police on Sunday arrested two persons with 12 kg of ganja. N. Sainudheen, 26 and T. Harshad, 32, were arrested during a vehicle checking on the National Highway. 0The ganja packets were found hidden inside a lorry in which they were travelling. The police said the two had smuggled the narcotic from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-kg-of-ganja-seized-2-held/article31998307.ece
06 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fishers clash at Chaliyam||Two groups of local fishermen clashed at the Chaliyam fish landing centre here on Sunday. Tension prevailed in the area when a section of fishers opposed the alleged attempts of another group to venture into the sea ignoring the warning of the Fisheries Department. The fishermen who blocked the attempt alleged that the other group was ignoring the alerts issued by the India Meteorological Department over the possibility of rough weather conditions. Norm violations They also accused the other group of violating physical- distancing norms and other curbs introduced along the coastal area for preventing the spread of COVID-19. Police personnel deployed from various stations soon brought the situation under control. Some of the fishers sustained minor injuries in the police action. They were admitted to the government hospital at Chaliyam. They alleged that the police had manhandled them without understanding the issue. Case against 10 A case has been registered against more than 10 people for obstructing the police and violating COVID-19 protocol. A few days ago, there was a similar incident in which the local fishermen foiled the attempt of some of the boat owners to resume fishing with the support of migrant workers. Following a complaint, the police had put the migrant workers in quarantine. The area had been tense after the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-clash-at-chaliyam/article31998340.ece
06 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Haj House at Karipur made first-line treatment centre||The State Haj House at Karipur was converted into a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (FLTC) on Sunday. It is the third FLTC facility in the district and will start admitting patients from Tuesday. The district authorities claimed that Haj House had better facilities than other FLTCs. As many as 320 beds have been arranged at the centre. The treatment facility was opened at Haj House in the light of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the district. As many as 281 infected persons are under treatment in the district. The Haj House will be functioning directly under the supervision of the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, which is the designated COVID-19 hospital in Malappuram district. Government Taluk Hospital, Kondotty, will be in charge of the daily administration. Volunteers of Trauma Care helped the Health authorities set up the FLTC at Haj House within a day. The services of 15 doctors, 30 staff nurses, and 30 cleaning staff will be available at the centre. Officials said adequate number of ambulances was available at the centre. If the cases rise further, the number of beds will be increased to 500. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said COVID-19 infected persons could be admitted to Haj House from Tuesday. Personnel from the Infection Control Cell will examine the facility on Monday. Arogya Keralam district programme manager A. Shibulal, Ardram assistant nodal officer Firos Khan, COVID-19 nodal officer Shinas Babu, Taluk Hospital medical officers Pradeep Kumar and Babu visited the FLTC on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/haj-house-at-karipur-made-first-line-treatment-centre/article31998299.ece
06 July 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||New cases continue to mount in Palakkad, Malappuram, Kannur||Twenty-nine persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Sunday. They included a 13-year-old girl from Puthuppariyaram. While 20 of the new cases were returnees from the Gulf, nine were from other States. Eight cases had come back from the UAE, five from Saudi Arabia, four from Qatar, two from Kuwait and one from Oman. Three of the new cases had returned from Tamil Nadu, four from Delhi and two from Karnataka. Seven of the newly confirmed cases were being treated at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, and one was at Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. As many as 188 infected persons are currently under treatment in Palakkad district. Besides them, 10 persons from the district are being treated at Manjeri, five in Ernakulam, two in Kozhikode and one in Kannur. District Collector D. Balamurali has requested people to stay away from felicitating winners of SSLC and other exams. He said everyone had the responsibility to prevent a community spread. In Malappuram An 82-year-old man from Wandoor under observation for COVID-19 at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, died on Saturday night. He was suffering from respiratory illness. Test results found him positive for COVID-19 on Sunday morning. He was admitted to the hospital on July 1 after his return from Saudi Arabia on June 29. Meanwhile, 26 persons tested positive for the virus in Malappuram district on Sunday. Two of them were found to have contracted the infection through local contacts. While 23 of them had returned from abroad, one person had come back from another State. All but five of them are being treated at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. While four are being treated in Kannur, one is in Ernakulam. As many as 281 infected persons were currently under treatment in the district, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. With 1,729 persons freshly sent into isolation on Sunday, over 36,500 persons are currently in quarantine in the district. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that if anyone had contacted with the newly infected persons, they should go into room quarantine in their respective homes. Those who do not have facility at homes could make use of the government facility, she said. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that anyone showing COVID-19 symptoms should not approach a hospital directly. Instead, they should contact the control cell at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253 and follow the directions. In Kozhikode Twenty people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday, including five through contact with infected persons. Five others recovered from the infection too, said a release. Right now, there are 116 active COVID-19 cases in the district. Five of those newly infected are residents of Vellayil in Kozhikode city. They had been in contact with a security guard in an apartment, who was tested positive for the virus after he was found to have committed suicide. They are, women aged 63 and 53 respectively, and children aged five, three-and-a-half years, and one-and-a-half years. Their condition was diagnosed after a special screening of the residents in the area. Among the other infected patients, there are a 29-year-old native of Changaroth and her four-year-old daughter, who returned from Bahrain on June 24 and were under home quarantine. Their body fluid samples were collected at a Nadapuram hospital on July 1 after the child showed COVID-19 symptoms. The other infected persons are from Kattippara, Meppayyur, Keezhariyoor, Perambra, Koyilandy, Kottoor, Omassery, Thamarassery, Kayakkodi, Kallayi, Ayanchery, and Kizhakkoth. A majority of them had returned from the Gulf and a couple of them had come back from Karnataka. Those cured are from Madavoor, West Hill, Kakkodi, Kodenchery and Maniyoor. Right now, 18,029 persons are under observation in the district, including 1,409 who were newly added to the list. Among them, there are 11,620 expatriates. In Thrissur Thrissur district recorded 12 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday while 12 were recovered from the disease. No one got infected through contact. The positive cases included two BSF jawans who came from Kollam. As many as 188 persons are undergoing treatment for the disease in the district. In all, 18,308 persons are under observation. Meanwhile, 59 persons reached Thrissur in two special trains from other States on Sunday. Containment zones Eight more divisions of Kunnamkulam Municipality have been declared as containment zones in the district. Divisions 7, 10, 11, 15, 17, 19, 25 and 26 were declared as containment zones on Sunday. In Kannur Twenty-five new cases were reported in Kannur on Sunday. While eight of them returned from abroad, another eight persons came from other States. Seven were Defence Security Corps personnel and two were CISF personnel. Those who returned from abroad were residents of Kannur, Anthoor, Padiyur, Peralassery, Mattannur, Maloor, Pappinisseri, and Pinarayi. Those who returned from other States were residents of Kathirur, Chokli, Kunnothparamba, Pinarayi, Kottayam (Malabar) and Maloor panchayat. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 585. Of them, 328 were cured of the disease. The district currently has 23,940 persons under observation. In Kasaragod Kasaragod is witnessing yet another spike in COVID-19 cases. On Sunday, 28 persons tested positive for the virus. Among them, seven contracted the disease through contact. Ten patients came from abroad and 11 returned from other States, said District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas. Those who got infected through contact are from Manjeswaram, Vorkady, Meencha, Paivalike and Kumbala. Of them, one is a lab technician and another was working at a community kitchen. The district now has 7,230 persons under observation. In Wayanad Six more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. Among the patients, three returned from Tamil Nadu and two came from Bengaluru in Karnataka. A youth from Kaniyampetta who returned from Sharjah was the other patient. They were shifted to District Hospital, Mananthavady. Of the 107 cases reported in the district so far, 71 have been cured.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-continue-to-mount-in-palakkad-malappuram-kannur/article31998304.ece
06 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Protest against move to shift boy to hostel||The Justice for Walayar Kids Forum has protested against the police move to forcibly shift the brother of the deceased minor girls of Walayar to a hostel. The police had reached the house of the girls at Attappallam near Walayar, persuading their parents to shift their little son to a hostel. Forum leader C.R. Neelakandan said that the police had threatened to use force if the parents did not permit taking away the boy. There were assault attempts on the boy two times when he was at the hostel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-move-to-shift-boy-to-hostel/article31998300.ece
06 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Home-quarantined NoRK dies in Ranni||A 46-year-old man, Sinu P. Jacob, who was under home quarantine at Edakkulam in Ranni died at the Taluk Hospital in Ranni on Sunday. The deceased Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK) was a cancer patient who came to his home village of Edakkulam from Abu Dhabi on a special flight on July 1. His wife Tomcy Sinu, and children Adia Sinu Jacob, Aron Sinu Jacob, and Ethan Sinu Jacob too accompanied him from Abu Dhabi. All the five were sent in quarantine at their home since July 1. Mr Jacob who had developed uneasiness in the chest on Sunday forenoon was rushed to the Taluk Hospital in Ranni where he died, later. The throat and nasal swab of the deceased were taken for examination before his body was sent to the mortuary at the General Hospital in Pathanamthitta. The body would be released to the relatives only after receiving the test results from the virology laboratory, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-quarantined-nork-dies-in-ranni/article31998430.ece
06 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||27 cured, 3 positive cases in Pathanamthitta||The district heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday when 27 persons were cured of COVID-19. Three persons also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. The active cases in the district are 159. A 35-year-old man from Aerath, near Adoor, who came from Kuwait on June 27, a 39-year-old man who came to his home at Ezhamkulam from Kuwait on June 23 and a 43-year-old woman who came to her home at Pandalam from Saudi Arabia on June 26 are the three Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A total of 179 people have been placed under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/27-cured-3-positive-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article31998433.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||As cases mount, city placed under 7-day triple lockdown||The State government has imposed a stringent triple lockdown in the city Corporation area for a week from Monday, in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases through contact. State Police Chief Loknath Behera said all roads leading to the city would be closed from 6 a.m. on Monday. Vehicular traffic would not be allowed in any of the city roads. Hospitals, medical shops, and grocery shops would be allowed to function. All government offices, including Secretariat, would remain closed. . Public can contact the following numbers in case of any need. State police control room-112, City police control room – 0471-2335410, 2336410, 2337410, State Police Chief’s control room – 0471-2722500, 9497900999, State COVID control room at Police Headquarters – 9497900121, 9497900112. In a press release issued late in the night, the District Collector said for buying essentials from grocery stores or medical stores, the public can contact 112, 9497900112, 9497900121, 04712722500, 9497900286, 9497900296. Highest spike The capital witnessed its highest single-day spike as 27 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Among them, 22 people contracted the infection through contact and, the sources of infection of over 10 of them were unknown. A bulk of the fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Manacaud, Poonthura, Attukal, and Muttathara that were declared containment zones. Enhancing the cluster formed by the disease diagnosis in a fish merchant at Poonthura; his 18-year-old daughter; 15-year-old son; and several others, including two children, aged two and 14; five men from Muttathara and Uchakkada, and two women from Manacaud and Poonthura. Two Manacaud natives — a headload worker and a fish vendor — who works in the Kumarichantha market and two fishermen from Pulluvila and Poonthura, both working at the Vizhinjam market, also tested positive. The others include a nurse and a pharmacist at a hospital in Attukal, a 62-year-old Vanchiyoor native who ran a Milma booth on the East Fort-Airport road, and a 70-year-old Manacaud native who runs a tea shop on the Attukal-Manacaud road. Five imported cases were also reported. These included a 60-year-old Manamboor native who came from Oman; a 29-year-old Ottoor native who came from the UAE; three members of a family from Neyyattinkara, who came from Kuwait. Incidents of returnees being prevented from undergoing home quarantine were also reported. A 76-year-old Malayam native, who came from Udaipur, was prevented from entering his house by his relatives. Local people alerted the panchayat officials, following which he was shifted to the corona care centre at Pankajakasthuri Ayurveda Medical College, Kattakada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-cases-mount-city-placed-under-7-day-triple-lockdown/article31998380.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New regulations give more teeth to law enforcement||Persons who spit in public places, refuse to wear masks or cover their face while venturing out of their homes will henceforth face fines if caught in the act by authorities. So would citizens who fail to maintain a minimum physical distance of six feet or 1.8 m. The State government has declared any violation of the social code for preventing the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) a compoundable offence as per a notification issued by Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on July 3. The new set of Kerala Epidemic Disease Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) Regulations gives more teeth to law enforcement to crack down on social behaviour that could potentially increase the risk of transmission of the pandemic. The regulation would remain in force for one year or until notified otherwise. The current rules came against the backdrop of the decision to re-impose triple lockdown regulations in localities which registered a worrying surge in new cases. Curbs in place The government has leaned on the rules to impose severe restrictions on mobility and retail trade in Thiruvananthapuram and Ponnani in Malappuram till July 12 following alarming reports that the regions risked local transmission. The regulations have placed strict limits on political action. Henceforth, processions, dharnas, demonstrations, public meetings, congregations and social gatherings would require the prior written permission of the district administration. Moreover, the government has stipulated that not more than 10 people could participate in any social event or political demonstration. The participants should wear masks and maintain the minimum mandatory physical distance from each other. Not exceeding 20 The number of people in a shop or commercial establishment should not exceed 20 at a time. The floor area of the establishment and the 1.8 m physical distance yardstick would define the calculus for determining the number of customers allowed into a shop. Failure on the part of the management to provide hand sanitisers at the entrance would attract fines. The regulations have given legal sanctity to the State’s decision to allow only people who have registered themselves with the COVID-19 Jagrata e-platform to enter Kerala from within the country or abroad. The State had earlier disagreed with the Centre’s directive to allow free inter-State and intra-State travel without any permit or prior notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-regulations-give-more-teeth-to-law-enforcement/article31998327.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSHEC to review examination norms||At a time when the conduct of examinations has become a subject of consternation in the State, the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) is set to review exam-related norms and recommend changes in tune with the COVID-19 scenario. The government’s policy think tank on higher education has taken it upon itself to scrutinise the examination system that has been facing many issues, primarily practical difficulties induced by the outbreak. The suicide of a college student in Kottayam recently had also brought the examination regulations under scanner. Concerns of students While some State universities have gone ahead with their plan to conduct pending examinations notwithstanding the prevailing concerns, several students have voiced their disapproval citing travel hardships and the mounting anxiety that prevails amid the ongoing spike in COVID-19 cases. While universities have claimed to have reserved separate rooms in the exam centres for students who come from containment zones, allegations are rife that many examinees tend to conceal the information for fear of being ostracised by their peers. Official sources also admit many invigilators have been reluctant to supervise examinations in such rooms. Besides, practical difficulties have also emerged in enforcing social distancing norms. According to KSHEC vice-chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M., examinations were being currently under guidelines drawn up to manage the crisis. “We will have to gear ourselves up for a new normal by making norms uniform and in tune with our social reality. While working on methods to circumvent challenges posed by the need to ensure physical distancing, we cannot ignore the fact that our campuses are ill-equipped to ensure social distancing effectively,” he said. Stressing on the need to tap the potential of virtual education, he highlighted the recommendations made by IGNOU Vice Chancellor Nageshwar Rao to the University Grants Commission (UGC) in which he advocated switching over to the mode for liberal arts, humanities and social sciences courses. At the same time, he cautioned against replacing classrooms with web-based learning, a move that could do little more than “computerise the existing drudgery”. e-competencies Prof. Gurukkal also advocated enhancing the e-competencies of both teachers and students and bridging the existing digital divide. While such issues will be discussed threadbare by the KSHEC executive body on July 8, the meeting will also take up the lapses on the part of the college in Kottayam in handling the issue that concerned a 20-year old B.Com. student who committed suicide after being accused of malpractice in an examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kshec-to-review-examination-norms/article31998343.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF expansion only through consensus||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has resolved to reap optimum political mileage of the dissensions plaguing the United Democratic Front (UDF), but the Left Democratic Front (LDF) expansion would be initiated only through consensus and not to its harm, convener A.Vijayaraghavan has said. Talking to The Hindu , Mr.Vijayaraghavan said that the CPI(M) and the CPI had a preliminary bilateral engagement on having new allies, leaving adequate space for further discussions. “Once the uncertainty shrouding the political stance of the Kerala Congress (Mani) blows over, we will pursue it,” he says. Mute spectator “Neither the CPI(M) nor the LDF had opened any talks with KC(M) leader Jose K.Mani. It does not mean that the party or the front would remain a mute spectator to the aggravating UDF crisis. “We will step in at the opportune moment with a collective decision,” he says. The reservations expressed by CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran need not be construed as a pre-emptive strike to thwart the attempts to explore options for forging a pact with Mr.Mani once he clarified his political stance. The LDF accent is on ensuring continuous governance and no ally would work against it, least of all the Left parties. The CPI(M) and the CPI are not at loggerheads on widening the mass base of the front. “Those hoping to drive a wedge between us will only be frustrated. We cannot remain oblivious to the disintegration of the UDF and will only try to catalyse it,” he said. A group of senior leaders including former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy are engineering the rout of Kerala Congress post K.M.Mani era since they foresee a threat from the party in the central Travancore region, especially in Kottayam, and that prompted them to target the KC(M). “The pivot of the LDF campaign will be the communal polarisation strategy of the UDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party. While the UDF is aligning with the Jamaat-e-Islami and SDPI with the blessings of the Congress high command, the BJP is attempting for a Hindu consolidation. The LDF will expose the communal designs of the UDF and the BJP,” Mr.Vijayaraghavan said. The growing popularity of the LDF government is annoying the UDF. Some of the Congress leaders have invested their hopes on natural calamities and the pandemic to upstage the LDF government. Never before had the Congress faced such a grave political crisis. Disintegration The forceful exit of KC(M) has led to the disintegration of the UDF. Outcome of the local body and Assembly elections would be proof of its crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-expansion-only-through-consensus/article31998328.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 fear strikes food delivery agents||With a Zomato food delivery agent from Palayam testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, delivery agents have become extra wary of venturing out for their daily work. A few have taken a temporary break from work, while most are still continuing for the sake of survival. On Saturday, the city Corporation had decided to stop all home deliveries in the 12 containment zones in the capital. In the rest of the city, payment for food deliveries have to be done online, as cash on delivery has been suspended temporarily. “Today, some customers were seen following the request to keep a basket or bag outside their doors, to drop the food packets. This could go a long way in avoiding contact, especially since there are quite a few under home quarantine, and we are always at risk. Right from the beginning, we have been careful during our work, using sanitiser and mask all the time. At the restaurants too, our temperatures are checked and hands cleaned with sanitisers before taking the package,” says Manoj, a Swiggy agent. But, the various delivery companies have not blocked the ‘cash on delivery’ option, due to which some customers still choose the same. On Sunday, some delivery agents who got such orders had to call up the customers to make them do online payment. One of the issues flagged by local authorities has been the crowding together of the delivery agents at various spots near major restaurants. Delivery agents say that this issue could be avoided by changing the timing of the alert given to the agents. “When Uber first introduced food delivery here, they followed a system of notifying the delivery agents only when the food is ready at the restaurant. Now, the delivery agents get the notification as soon as the customer places the order. Since cooking each of the dishes takes time, a number of riders end up crowding around the more popular restaurants. This can be prevented only by going back to the old system,” says Reji, a Zomato delivery agent.  Some companies have not blocked the ‘cash on delivery’ option due to which customers still choose the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-fear-strikes-food-delivery-agents/article31998377.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Key nodes to fight pandemic||Ensuring first point of contact with the health system on time, making test results available at the earliest , early identification of at risk individuals, early initiation of treatment, close monitoring for trigger signs and making all treatment modalities available in all districts are the critical nodes in the trajectory of prevention of COVID-19 mortality. These are the key recommendations in the death audit report of the first 22 COVID 19 deaths in Kerala, put out by the Health Department. The data was reviewed, analysed and the report prepared jointly by the State Medical Board and State Prevention of Epidemics and Infectious Diseases (PEID) Cell. . At each of these critical nodes, multiple action points would need to be worked out in each district, the report says. Common symptoms COVID-19 epidemic in Kerala had resulted in 4,442 cases and 25 deaths by July 1. The case fatality rate is 0.5%. Fatigue, breathlessness and fever were the most common symptoms among patients who succumbed to COVID-19. Tiredness or fatigue may actually be signalling breathlessness or lowering of oxygen saturation levels in the body, one of the vital indications of a patient going into COVID 19 complications. Hence it is important to include this in the awareness campaigns on COVID 19, so that ‘at risk’ individuals can be picked up early, the report says. Among the 22 patients who died, 19 had pre-existing co-morbid conditions (86%), while three did not have any co-morbidity (14%). There were three patients who were brought dead. Of the remaining 19 patients, 18 had two or more COVID related complications (95%). ARDS, pneumonia, Cytokine Release Syndrome, acute kidney injury and myocarditis were the common complications. Co-morbidities In the order of frequency, the co-morbid conditions are diabetes (32%), hypertension (23%), cancer (14%), coronary heart disease (14%), congenital heart disease (4.5%), hypertrophic cardio-myopathy (4.5%), chronic kidney disease (4.5%) intracranial bleeding and chronic liver disease (4.5%). Ten patients had multiple co-morbidities (45%). The experts have also recommended that reverse quarantine should be strengthened. It should be ensured that all modalities of treatment, including convalescent plasma therapy, are available in all districts and that regional plasma banks be set up to avoid delay in plasma administration. Acute coronary events and sudden deterioration in some patients during treatment or during period of convalescence need to be addressed. Another key recommendation is that pulse oximetry be made available at hospitals/ the points of swab collection/field/mobile units so that silent hypoxia can be identified at the earliest. Pulse oximetry should be performed in all patients seeking care for ILI/SARI/ARI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/key-nodes-to-fight-pandemic/article31998323.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Task force for 12 infra projects||A special task force of IAS officers has been constituted for the speedy implementation of 11 key infrastructure projects and projects financed by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Ten IAS officers have been designated as special project directors (SPDs) for the task force and they will aid the Secretaries of the departments and Additional Chief Secretary, Special Projects-Infrastructure, Alkesh Kumar Sharma. The SPDs will be catalysts providing vital link between special purpose vehicles set up to execute the projects, Secretaries, and the Additional Chief Secretary to ensure flawless implementation of projects. They will have to take steps to complete the projects in consultation with Chief Executive Officers of the special purpose vehicles and the project executing authorities adhering to timelines. Appointed M.G. Rajamanickam and Diva S. Iyer have been made SPDs for the infra projects financed by KIIFB, K. Imbasekhar (Azhikkal Port), Umesh N.S.K. (City Gas and Waste to Energy projects), Sreevidhya P.L. (Vizhinjam International Seaport and Thalaserry-Mysuru rail line), Renu Raj (Smart Cities project and Vyttila Mobility Hub), S. Karthikeyan (Silver Line - semi high speed rail), K. Chandrasekhar (Sabarimala airport), Amit Meena (Travancore House Project), and V.R.K. Teja Mylavarapu (Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor). Sources said the SPDs were already on the job assigned to them and their service would come in handy to overcome bottlenecks and for  liaising  with District Collectors for getting permission and for acquiring land needed for the projects. The move comes close on the heels of delegating the charge of infrastructure to Mr. Sharma, who is also the Managing Director of Kochi Metro Rail Ltd. Mr. Sharma, an IAS officer of Kerala cadre, was head of the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor while on deputation to the Centre. The government’s aim is to make maximum headway in key infrastructure projects before the expiry of its term. In addition to the 11 special projects, 650 projects at an estimate of Rs. 51,000 crore of the Public Works Department, Health, Water Resources, Education, and other sectors funded by KIIFB will be monitored closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/task-force-for-12-infra-projects/article31998321.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA for speedy project completion||With several big water supply initiatives in the pipeline, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has decided to form project implementation units (PIU) at its headquarters and in the districts to ensure their speedy completion. The decision has come at a time when the State-run water utility is preparing to embark on a number of water supply projects with funding from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI), in addition to Asian Development Bank-funded projects for Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram (ADB) and the centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) for providing water connections to rural households. According to a June 30 order issued by KWA Managing Director Venkatesapathy S., the KWA has several ongoing water supply projects. In various stages “The projects are under different stages of completion and many other big projects are in the pipeline,” the order said. At the KWA headquarters here, the PIU will consist of a three-member committee headed by the Chief Engineer (Projects and Operations) and a five-member core committee which would have the Executive Engineer (Planning-1) as convener. At the district level, the PIUs will be headed by Superintending Engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-for-speedy-project-completion/article31998344.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KC(M) entry into LDF not a given: CPI||State secretary of the Communist Party of India, Kanam Rajendran, on Sunday said the entry of the Jose. K. Mani faction of the KC(M) into the LDF was not a given. Mr Rajendran's public stance appeared to contradict widespread speculation that the CPI(M) seemed inclined to admit Mr Mani into the LDF fold. He made it abundantly clear that the CPI would distance itself from any move to accommodate Mr. Mani in the ruling front. “Social distancing is the need of the hour,” he told reporters here. The LDF would return to power in the next Assembly elections. It would dominate the local body polls. The coalition did not require the help of ‘people who come and go.’ The LDF should not take any decision that could squander away its immense political advantage, Mr. Rajendran said. Mr Mani, who was told to keep away from leadership meetings of the United Democratic Front (UDF), was still a member of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) at the Centre. Mr. Mani has not abandoned the Opposition alliance. He was negotiating with three fronts (LDF, the UDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Front) at the same time. He still held on the Rajya Sabha seat given to him by the UDF, Mr. Rajendran said. Legislators supposedly allied to the KC (M) Mani faction had won on UDF tickets. “He (Mr Mani) is dangling the Rajya Sabha and Assembly seats before everybody to strike a politically advantageous bargain,” he said. Ideally, Mr. Mani should give up the MP and MLA seats before exploring his chances with the LDF. He should take a cue from the example set by late M. P. Veerendra Kumar of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD). Veerendra Kumar had joined the LDF in 2018 after resigning the Rajya Sabha seat he had won on a UDF ticket, he said. The CPI was open to any accommodation without forsaking its guiding principles and the common political programme of the LDF. When pressed whether the CPI would capitulate to the CPI(M) and agree to induct Mr Mani into the LDF, Mr. Rajendran said the party did not have such a track record. He said that in 2017 a Minister (Thomas Chandy of the NCP) had to resign after CPI Ministers refused to sit in the meeting with him. “Where has the CPI capitulated?” Mr. Rajendran asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-entry-into-ldf-not-a-given-cpi/article31998325.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||An artefact’s link to an anti-British rebellion||Beena Sarasan, a noted numismatist with a passion for Travancore history, regularly scours exhibitions, artefact markets and the Internet for coins and other collectables of historical interest. On one of her many quests for curios dating back to the British colonial period and beyond, the former Deputy Commissioner (Income Tax Department) and author of a book on numismatics encountered a collector who had an exciting offer to make. He wanted to swap a military medallion from the British period in Malabar for a rare copper coin in Ms. Sarasan's collection. Ms. Sarasan agreed to the barter. The medal remained almost forgotten in her hoard until the raging controversy surrounding the ideological moorings of the 1921 Malabar rebellion erupted in the public domain. The furious debate centred around the question whether the hero of the uprising against colonial rule, Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji, attempted to impose the code of Islam on Hindus in his area of influence. Four impending films on the freedom fighter’s life and times ignited the bickering over Haji’s secular credentials. In a letter to the editor published by The Hindu on October 7, 1921, Haji had rebutted the ‘report that Hindus are forcibly converted’ by his men saying it was ‘entirely untrue.’ Ms. Sarasan said she discovered the artefact was a military medal awarded to one Inspector K. Vasudevan Nair for services rendered to the British crown during the Malabar rebellion 1921-22. The officer’s name is etched on the coin. But Ms. Sarasan's best efforts to dig up the officer’s past and his role in quelling the uprising led by the martyred “Pandalur Commander” was yet to yield any tangible result. On battlefield Ms. Sarasan said perfunctory research found that the colonial rulers customarily awarded the silver medal emblazoned with the visage of King George V to British and native officers who distinguished themselves on the battlefield. The upcoming 100th anniversary of the storied freedom struggle in 2021 appeared to have imbued the artefacts from the period with some measure of present-day political relevance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-artefacts-link-to-an-anti-british-rebellion/article31998335.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree Cafe Corners opened at Thiruvananthapuram airport||The Kudumbashree has started Cafe Corners at the international airport here and in Kochi to offer refreshments to expatriates returning home. The Cafe Corners at the airport here—one in the lounge inside the terminal and another in the corridor outside—began functioning on Sunday. The kiosks, run by Big B Eats, a Kudumbashree-affiliated unit, provide refreshments to non-resident Keralites disembarking from flights and in for a wait owing to COVID-19 tests. While the kiosk in the lounge provides tea, snacks such as biscuits, and drinking water, the one outside the terminal will provide steamed eats, limited number of vegetarian and non-vegetarian meals, and biryani from Monday. The two Cafe Corners are manned by three women. Kudumbashree Executive Director Harikishore S. said health tests required expatriates to wait at the airports, but buying food from the airport was not affordable for many. Some might not even be able to buy food on the journey home owing to safety protocols. A decision was then taken by the Chief Minister to rope in Kudumbashree to provide refreshments to them at affordable rates. Directions were then given to Collectors of the districts concerned.  Short notice Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju said the Cafe Corners here had begun functioning at short notice without any stall arrangement after permission was received on Saturday. However, operations would start in full swing on Monday. The eats were also being provided by another Kudumbashree unit at a COVID testing centre at Chakka, he said. The first such kiosk started at the Nedumbassery airport on June 26. The Cafe Corner there is run by a five-member unit from Kunnukara panchayat. Renjini S., Ernakulam district mission in-charge, said about 250 to 300 people were visiting the kiosk and the unit was making a profit of Rs. 4,500 a day. The units have been deployed keeping in mind safety precautions. The people at the kiosks are allowed in only after temperature checks and have to don PPE kits. The Kudumbashree Cafe Corners will soon open at the Kannur and Karipur airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-cafe-corners-opened-at-thiruvananthapuram-airport/article31998374.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Remand prisoners flee from quarantine centre||Two remand prisoners broke out of a jail quarantine centre in Varkala early on Sunday. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have launched a search for Aneesh, 27, of Pallichal, Neyyattinkara, and Muhammed Shan, 18, of Chithara, Kollam, who managed to escape from the SR Medical College and Research Centre in Akathumuri that has doubled up as a jail COVID-19 first-line treatment centre to lodge prisoners who awaited their transfer to the District Prison in Poojappura while their swab samples were being tested. While Aneesh had been arrested by the Naruvamoodu police under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) for his alleged involvement in anti-social activities, Muhammed Shan was recently arrested by the Pangode police on charge of vehicle theft. Both had undergone jail terms in the past. Five days According to Attingal Dy.SP S.Y. Suresh, the duo were lodged in the same room in the quarantine facility for nearly five days. They escaped after removing the ventilator glass pane in their bathroom around 2 a.m. Teams formed “They fled from the area on a motorcycle stolen from the premises of a lawyer’s house near the Kadakkavoor railway station. However, they were soon intercepted by a police team. This prompted them to abandon the vehicle and escape on foot through a narrow passage. Teams have been dispatched to apprehend the duo,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remand-prisoners-flee-from-quarantine-centre/article31998375.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DMRC winding up operations in State||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (DMRC) that was instrumental in the implementation of the State’s first Mass Rapid Transit System project, Kochi Metro, is winding up its operations in the State. The agency that also did the groundwork for Light Metro in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode will make its exit in September. The DMRC, under Principal Adviser E. Sreedharan, has completed the work on the 25.16-km Phase I of the fully elevated Kochi Metro from Aluva to Pettah. “The 1-km Reach II B of the Phase I from Thykoodam to Pettah has been completed and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has received authorisation from the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) to operate services. The formal inauguration is awaited. The Phase II from Pettah is being executed by the KMRL and hence the exit,” official sources told The Hindu . The residual works like the Chambakkara bridge and property development of the Ernakulam metro station, near the Ernakulam South railway station, will be completed by August. In 2018, the DMRC shut its offices in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode opened in 2014 for the proposed Light Metro in the two cities after the State government delayed the Detailed Project Report for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dmrc-winding-up-operations-in-state/article31998322.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA halts direct bill payment till July 20||Given the COVID-19 scenario in the capital, the KWA has temporarily halted direct services provided by section offices in the Corporation limits from July 6 to July 20. Water bills should be paid online via epay.kwa.kerala.gov.in. For clarifications, call 8547638282, 8547001220. The KWA has halted taking the readings in containment zones in the Corporation area, including Attukal, Kuriathi, Kalippankulam, Manacaud, Trikkannapuram, Tagore Road, Muttathara, Puthenpalam, Palayam, Nandavanam regions. KWA consumers in the containment zones have been advised to click a photograph of their water meter with the reading displayed and WhatsApp it along with the consumer number to the following numbers: Palayam: 8289940550 Pattoor: 8547638178 Kowdiar: 8547605751 Peroorkada: 8547638339 Pongumoodu: 8547605754 Thirumala: 8547638190 Karamana: 8281597996 Kuriathi: 8547638195 Thiruvallam: 9495594342||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-halts-direct-bill-payment-till-july-20/article31998381.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Postponed||The DEd (Diploma in Education) and DEl Ed (Diploma in Elementary Education) examinations scheduled to be held from Monday have been postponed owing to the triple lockdown in the State capital. The new dates will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postponed/article31998329.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||The Hindu parcels go missing||Six parcels of The Hindu newspaper, having 690 copies, went missing from two spots at Kesavadasapuram on Sunday. Parcels for six agents are usually dropped by vehicles carrying the parcels in front of the Union Bank ATM, while those for two others are dropped in front of an optical showroom around 1.45 a.m. But, when the agents arrived at 3.30 a.m., the parcels were found missing. The Hindu has lodged a police complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-hindu-parcels-go-missing/article31998378.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU restricts entry||The University of Kerala will restrict entry to its Palayam office campus and Karyavattom campus for the public from July 6 until further notice. The restrictions will apply for the University Library also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-restricts-entry/article31998370.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly- state||Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take steps to end the ongoing protests of the people in Thottappally against mineral sand mining. In a press release, he said that mining and transporting of mineral sand from the area would affect the local ecology adversely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/briefly-state/article31998376.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State briefly2||The Opposition parties are misinterpreting the International tribunal’s verdict in the Italian marines case as being against the interests of the country, even though it resulted in the awarding of compensation for the families of the dead fishermen, Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-briefly2/article31998330.ece
06 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State briefly/K. Karunakaran remembered||As an administrator, former Chief minister K. Karunakaran displayed extraordinary finesse, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has said. Mr. Ramachandran was addressing a conference marking the birth anniversary of Mr. Karunakaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-brieflyk-karunakaran-remembered/article31998331.ece
06 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Autobiography of Meenakshi Thampan released||Manodarpanathile Maayaatha Chitrangal , the autobiography of Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Meenakshi Thampan, was released on Sunday. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran handed over the first copy to CPI assistant secretary K. Prakash Babu. Writer C. Radhakrishnan inaugurated the event online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/autobiography-of-meenakshi-thampan-released/article31998333.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In risky waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-risky-waters/article31998298.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Exempted services||The following services have been exempted from the triple lockdown. Airport; flight services; train services and taxis to and fro from railway stations and airport; urgent banking services, including ATM; data centre operators; minimum employees for urgent mobile services; hospitals and medical shops; goods vehicles; grocery shops; urgent media services; petrol pumps; LPG agencies; work related to water and power distribution services and sanitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exempted-services/article31998385.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The curious question of encroachment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-curious-question-of-encroachment/article31998387.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A river in rains||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-river-in-rains/article31998347.ece
06 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good rains rekindle hopes among farmers in Marthadu||A farmer couple, K. Nagabhushanam and Durga Bhavani, are at their wits’ end as they lost more than Rs. 1 lakh investment and three months of hard labour on a three-acre farm land, where fully grown okra crop is left unattended, in Marthadu village in Garladinne mandal of Anantapur district. They said that the district administration did not come to their rescue in time to market the best quality of okra during the three months of the lockdown, when there were no buyers. Sorry state of affairs Several villages in Garladinne mandal of Singanamala Assembly constituency on Sunday showed a sorry state of affairs as there was no government support or marketing efforts for vegetables and horticulture crops like okra, cluster beans, ridge gourd, kidney beans and broad beans and sweet lime. Most of these were left to rot in large fields. “We tried to sell okra, but were offered just Rs. 2 per kg. It was not sufficient for even paying the labour charges for 12 women for plucking on a single day, which costs Rs. 3,000,” Durga Bhavani said. Impact of lockdown “Okra needs to be plucked every alternate day to get tender ones. As long as the Hyderabad and Bengaluru markets were open, the price was good enough, but during the lockdown, there was no return even for the crop on a land that has water facility,” she rued. The family owns another five acres of dryland with no water facility where they have started sowing groundnut from Guru Purnima Day on Sunday with the hope that the monsoon rains would come handy to get at least 15 to 20 bags (50 kg each) of groundnut yield per acre in 120 days. With good rains in June, the farmer’s family expect to recover the losses with this crop and raise enough for studies of their two children, who are in the high school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-rains-rekindle-hopes-among-farmers-in-marthadu/article31997945.ece
06 July 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown: institutions switch over to webinars||Ever since the lockdown was imposed in the third week of March, to curb the spread of the coronavirus, holding of seminars, conferences, workshops and meetings has virtually come to a halt. At this juncture, webinars gained popularity. With them, institutions and even individuals found the easy way out to stay connected with their clients and friends, without the need to move out of their homes. Webinar, a combination of ‘web’ and ‘seminar’, is a video workshop. A computer or laptop with an Internet connection is all that is needed to participate in a webinar. The online apps provide free conference facilities for up to 40 minutes, when the number of participants does not exceed 100. A webinar, hosted from London during the lockdown last week, saw the participation of experts from across the globe, including India. Educational institutions and also large families, having students or relatives, in different locations are using webinars to provide virtual classroom experience or to connect with their near and dear ones. “I take classes for UG students and conduct seminars for PGs through webinar and I find the app very useful in view of the restrictions on movement due to the lockdown,” says G. Hanumatha Rao, Professor and Head of the Department of Ophthalmology, Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences, Nellimarla, Vizianagaram. “We zeroed in on ‘Zoom’ as it is popular in the market for a decade. Its quality and also the higher number of persons, who can join in, compared to other similar apps, made us prefer this. Further, all our professors are not tech-savvy and Zoom provides ease of use, which is another reason for our choosing it,” G. Gopalakrishna, Chief Technology Officer of Gitam Deemed to be University, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-institutions-switch-over-to-webinars/article31998493.ece
06 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue boy from forest||A nine-year-old boy, believed to be speech- and hearing-impaired, was rescued by the Tavanampalle police from a forest location near Madhavaram village on the Aragonda-Panjani Road on Saturday night following information from the local shepherds. A group of shepherds returning home at dusk on Saturday heard the cries of the boy from a forest location abutting the Koudinya Wildlife Sanctuary. As they ventured into the thickets following the trail of the sound, they found the boy sitting under a tree all alone. As the boy tried to evade them, the shepherds called the police. “When we brought him to the police station, the boy was initially weeping. In a couple of hours, as he started feeling relaxed and comfortable with us, he tried to communicate, but we could not understand him. We also gave him a paper and pencil, but in vain,” Sub-Inspector K. Rajasekhar told The Hindu.  The police officer said that despite repeated efforts to know his whereabouts, the boy could not respond as he showed signs of speech and hearing impairment. The police then started verifying with other police stations in the district about the missing cases to see if the photograph matched with the boy, but this exercise too did not yield any result. “When we went to rescue him, the boy was carrying a school bag that contained a school uniform of blue trousers and a white shirt. But they have no label on them,” Mr. Rajasekhar said. After observing the circumstances in which he was found, the police suspect that the boy could have been abandoned by his parents from a neighbouring district, or State. “We will verify the CC camera footage in the surrounding villages and vital road points for any clues,” the police officer said. CWC asked to intervene As the police could not keep the boy in the station for long, the matter was taken to the notice of district Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar, who in turn asked the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to intervene and shift him to Tirupati by following the COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-nine-year-old-boy-from-forest/article31997877.ece
06 July 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus impact: tourism sector incurs Rs. 12-cr. loss||Tourism sector in the Visakhapatnam region has suffered severe losses due to impact of coronavirus. With the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 outbreak, closure of major tourist hotspots and further restrictions on travel, the sector is badly hit like never before and may take a long time to recover. “In the three to four months, the tourism sector has suffered around Rs. 12 crore revenue loss as compared to the same period in the previous year,” said Divisional Manager, Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), T.G Prasada Reddy. The region receives good revenue from travel, hotels, restaurants, boating services, tourist spots, public parks and beaches. The pandemic has badly hit the business, he said. With its pristine beaches, Araku valley and a number of tourist hotspots, the Visakhapatnam district has been a major tourist destination. Tourists from Odisha, West Bengal, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and a number of foreigners throng the city of destiny throughout the year. Due to COVID-19 crisis, all the major beaches, favourite tourist destinations like Kailasagiri, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), VUDA Park, Borra Caves, Chaparai, submarine museum, and other hotspots have been closed in the district. A senior official from the Tourism Department said that officially the department has not received any orders from the State government to restart activities at the tourist places. “There is no clarity at the moment when the government will relax the norms on the sector because the COVID-19 cases in the State is inching towards 20,000-mark,” said an official. Boating control room Recently, a boating control room was also started at Rushikonda to monitor boating activities. But the government has not given orders to start boating activities, since beaches were asked to close for people. Meanwhile a few locals who used to visit Agency areas to for the water falls and valleys have also stopped their plans due to the voluntary lockdown in most parts of the Agency. However, the hotels and restaurants were given relaxations by the Central government since June 8. Safety protocols The APTDC has been strictly implementing Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the State government at hotels and restaurants. “The revenue which we used to earn for two days before COVID-19 is now being earned in 22 days. Such is the impact of the pandemic. It will take time for everything to get normal. Many are panicked to travel to other places due to increase in cases in those regions,” said Mr. Prasada Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-impact-tourism-sector-incurs-rs-12-cr-loss/article31998487.ece
06 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||148 new cases take tally to 1,955 in East Godavari||East Godavari district witnessed the highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases as 148 persons have been tested positive over the past 24 hours ending Sunday morning. As many as 59 cases have been reported in Rajamahendravaram urban alone, according to the health bulletin issued on Sunday morning. The Rajamahendravaram rural has witnessed 13 cases while Kakinada urban witnessed 11 cases. The total number of cases in the the district is 1,955 by Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/148-new-cases-take-tally-to-1955-in-east-godavari/article31998485.ece
06 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two electrocuted||Two persons died on the spot after they came in contact with an electric wire while digging a pit with a drilling machine at a cattle shed at Vajrakutam village under Annavaram police station limits in East Godavari district on Sunday. Annvaram Sub-Inspector B. Shankara Rao said the two workers have been identified as D Venkanna (35) and H. Ramesh (23) belonging to Anantapur district. The duo had been engaged in drilling work at quarry sites in the East Godavari district, but on Sunday they were drafted for work at the cattle shed. The bodies were shifted to the government area hospital at Prathipadu, the SI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-electrocuted/article31998473.ece
06 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool crosses milestone in testing||The number of samples tested in Kurnool district crossed the one lakh-mark on Sunday even as the number of discharged patients (1,147) overtook that of active patients (1,131). The cumulative total crossed 2,800 with almost 500 cases from other States. Appreciating the efforts all the medical and paramedical staff in ramping up testing, District Collector G. Veerapandian said: “This is a remarkable outcome of team work of all departments. From mobilising the people in the villages and towns, collecting samples, processing them at the labs, announcing the results, contact tracing and testing them, they have done a commendable job.” The sudden surge of positive cases and simultaneous enhancement of testing capacity by installing more RT-PCR and TRU-nat machines at the labs had not deterred any of the employees, he said. In the face of adversities, the doctors responded proactively, he pointed out. “Everyone of us in the district shall take pride in this great achievement. Hope to conduct many more tests in the shortest possible time and contain the spread by TTT model, Testing ..Testing… and Testing,” he added. In Anantapur district, occupying the second place in the cumulative number of cases in the State, there were more 2,400 cases of which 1,000 are active. The district administration was meanwhile preparing for strengthening the bed capacity in the hospitals and also in COVID Care Centres. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said out of the 900 hospital beds, including ICUs, only 500 were being used and rest were free. Out of the 10 COVID Care Centres, only five were in use as of now as there was no immediate need for more, but efforts were on to convert the warehousing godown into centre with 1,500 beds very soon, for which approvals were awaited from the State headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-crosses-milestone-in-testing/article31997947.ece
06 July 2020||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Many taking to liquor smuggling to make ends meet||The struggle for existence and sustenance seems to be getting worse with the COVID-19 pandemic showing no signs of abatement. Many private employees, petty traders, hotel and kirana shop owners, teachers and students are turning liquor smugglers to make ends meet. First-time offenders The arrest of several people on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders, many of them first-time offenders, and seizure of huge quantity of liquor from their possession in the last few days vouch for it. The police have also seized many two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws, cars and other vehicles used for transporting liquor. “In a majority of the cases, the accused are not habitual offenders. They are smuggling liquor from the neighbouring State to feed their families during the lockdown period. The curfew-like situation prevailing in many villages for the last four months seems to have forced them to take to liquor business,” a police officer who participated in the raids said. With liquor outlets resuming business, many villagers are taking to liquor trade. “Villagers are investing about Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 per day and procuring liquor in Telangana, where the prices are low. On the days when they are successful in crossing the border, they are earning about Rs. 10,000,” said Sambasiva Rao of Gampalagudem in Krishna district. Making a fast buck A few people are investing more than Rs. 10,000 to make a fast buck. “Officers of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) have booked about 2,301 cases and arrested 3,583 smugglers since May 15 at various points,” said SEB Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal. “At a few places, villagers are borrowing from private moneylenders just to feed their families,” says Daravathu Sakru of Mylavaram. Vigil heightened Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said strict vigil was being maintained at the borders. Apart from checking vehicles at the check-posts, the SEB and police mobile parties were patrolling round the clock to check liquor smuggling, he said. “Smugglers were intercepted at Tiruvuru, Reddygudem, Penuganchiprolu, Mylavaram, Garikapadu, Veerulapadu, Nuzvid, Vissannapeta, Nandigama, Kanchikacherla and other places,” Mr. Ravindranath said. “We are literally starving for the last three months. We are doing liquor business as there is no alternative,” said a vegetable vendor of Kanimerla Thanda on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-taking-to-liquor-smuggling-to-make-ends-meet/article31998471.ece
06 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID casts shadow on Guru Purnima celebrations||Guru Purnima, the birth anniversary of Veda Vyasa, was celebrated sans big social gathering across Prakasam district on Sunday. Devotees venerated their spiritual gurus in keeping with the great cultural practice of honouring the seer Vyasa, who penned the epic Mahabharata and also believed to have compiled the four Vedas. The festival was celebrated without much fanfare and the usual visits to temples were missing this year as lockdown was in force in most parts of the city as also elsewhere in the district. However, a few ardent devotees thronged the famous Sai Baba temple in Lawyerpet to offer prayers from outside as it was closed down. Other temples too saw a steady stream of devotees who were allowed to offer worship after being screened. No community lunch was organised this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-casts-shadow-on-guru-purnima-celebrations/article31997948.ece
06 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Confirmed cases surpass 1,000 in Nellore district||The viral disease continued its steady rise in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as Prakasam district reported 69 new cases and Nellore reported 62 in the last 24 hours. Cases in Nellore district surpassed 1,008 on Sunday. The city accounted for a maximum of 27 new cases followed by Kavali with six, Kovur with three, Balayapalli, Kota, Chittamuru, Marripadu and A.S.Peta with two cases each. Eleven patients were discharged on recovery. One new case each was registered in Tada, Sangam, Gudur, Dagadarthi, Venkatachalam, Allur, Kondapuram, Indukurupeta, Kodavalur, Chilakur, Kaluvaya, Buchireddipalem and Rapur. Three persons hailing from the districts of Prakasam, Guntur and Chittoor also tested positive. Meanwhile, the number of cumulative cases in Prakasam district rose to 963. In a positive development, 40 patients were discharged from the hospitals during the same time. Contact tracing In Ongole, the lockdown was strictly enforced as the city registered 220 cases so far with colonies including Sujata Nagar, Bhagya Nagar, Sivaprasad Colony, Revenue Colony, Samatha Nagar witnessing new cases. The tally rose to 109 in Chirala, 107 in Markapur and 53 in Kandukur. Two men aged 72 and 74 from Pamur, which has emerged as a hotspot with 96 confirmed cases, were among the newly-infected patients. As many as 147 persons migrated from other States to the district. Seven of those who tested positive for the viral disease had come from Telangana. The health condition 230 of the 460 patients under treatment was stable. As many as 69 contacts of the newly-infected persons were traced. Each of the infected persons on an average had five primary contacts and seven secondary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/confirmed-cases-surpass-1000-in-nellore-district/article31997951.ece
06 July 2020||PULIGADDA AQUEDUCT (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tail-end Diviseema gets water on time for kharif||A staggering 800 tmcft of Krishna water has been released into the Bay of Bengal from the Prakasam Barrage in the last 80 days, according to Irrigation Department Executive Engineer A. Swaroop Kumar. Addressing the media at the Col. Campbell Aqueduct at Diviseema in Krishna district, Mr. Swaroop Kumar said water was being released into the canals across the district to irrigate 7.8 lakh acres during the kharif season. “In the tail-end area of the barrage, all measures have been taken to facilitate the filling of drinking water ponds, apart from irrigating paddy fields in the Diviseema area,” he said. Diviseema, comprising the three mandals of Koduru, Avanigadda, and Nagayalanka, is the tail-end area of the barrage. Except the previous year, the Diviseema area has not been receiving irrigation water from the barrage on time for the kharif operations since 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tail-end-diviseema-gets-water-on-time-for-kharif/article31997940.ece
06 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala seers begin ‘Chaturmasya deeksha’||The Tirumala-Tirupati pontiffs Sri Pedda Jeeyar and Sri Chinna Jeeyar formally took the ‘Chaturmasya deeksha’ at Tirumala on Sunday. As part of the ‘Deeksha Sankalpam’ (vow), the senior and junior pontiff visited the Swami Pushkarini, Varahaswamy temple and Srivari temple, where they were given a traditional reception by Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and offered ‘Melchat’ and ‘Nulchat’ Vastrams (cloth drapery in honour) respectively. TTD board member Sekhar Reddy, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti, Deputy Executive Officer (Srivari temple) Harindra Nath, Officer on Special Duty Pala Seshadri were present. Chaturmasya Deeksha was adopted by Kurthalam (Courtallam) Peethadhipathi Sri Siddeswarananda Bharathi at his peetham at Rayala Cheruvu near Tirupati on Sunday, marking the ‘Guru Purnima’. The annual vow is taken by sages and pontiffs by staying put at a place for a fixed place and pray for global well-being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-seers-begin-chaturmasya-deeksha/article31998271.ece
06 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||173 discharged in Tirupati, the highest in a day||As many as 173 persons were discharged from the Sri Padmavathi Nilayam quarantine centre here on Sunday. This is the highest number to be discharged on a single day from the centre since its inception. The centre had till now accommodated 744 persons. With this, the total number of persons discharged touched 521, leaving 223 patients at present. TUDA secretary and COVID-19 district in-charge S. Lakshmi and Ruia Superintendent S. Bharathi, COVID-19 nodal officer Subba Rao and other officials handed over Rs. 2,000 to each of them, as part of the government’s policy. Fruits distributed Immunity boosters and fruits were also handed over to them. Meanwhile, thirteen patients were discharged from SVIMS Sri Padmavathi Medical College (State COVID hospital), nine of whom were from Chittoor district and two each from Kadapa and Ananthapur districts. The VRDL at SVIMS received 2,000 swab samples for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/173-discharged-in-tirupati-the-highest-in-a-day/article31997953.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police bust gutkha, ganja smuggling racket, 5 held||The Krishna district police seized a haul of gutkha products and about 10 kg of ganja, all worth about Rs. 70 lakh, besides confiscating five cars and arresting five persons in this connection, said Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. On a tif-off, a police team led by Nandigama Rural CI Satish and Kanchikacherla SI G. Srihari Babu intercepted the cars on Bejjur Road and seized the gutkha packets of different brands, packed in gunny bags, the SP said at a press conference at Nandigama on Sunday. The arrested were P. Bhaskar Rao, K. Harish, D. Nageswara Rao and M. Balaraju, all natives of Telangana, and Das Shekar of Paritala village in Krishna district. Seven mobile phones and Rs. 13,500 cash had been seized from the gang. The Preventive Detention (PD) Act would be invoked against the accused, the SP said. Nandigama DSP G.V. Ramana Murthy said that Das Shekar had been procuring gutkha from Bidar in Karnataka with the help of other gang members and supplying it to the retail shops in nearby districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-ganja-smuggling-racket-busted-5-held/article31997884.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing in State crosses 10-lakh mark||The State which has been on the forefront in detecting the coronavirus cases has tested 10 lakh samples by Sunday. Having tested 10,17,140 samples by 9 a.m. on Sunday, the authorities put the positivity rate is 1.84%, which means only less than two persons in every 100 suspects tested have confirmed positive for the virus. Meanwhile, the tests per million population has gone up to 19, 047. The tests per million population ratio of the country is 6,878 and the State is only behind New Jammu & Kashmir and Delhi who have achieved 30,000 tests per million ratio. The mortality rate in the State stands at 1.24%, one of the lowest in the country. The mortality rate in India is 2.86%. 78 laboratories In a release, the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare on Sunday said that the COVID-19 testing began in the State on February 1 and the first sample was sent to Gandhi Hospital in Telangana. The State, which set up its first testing facility at the SVIMS in Tirupati on March 7, has now 78 testing laboratories including four private ones and 15 government Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL), 47 TrueNAT laboratories, five CBNAAT labs, two NACO labs, and five CLIA labs. The testing count in the State crossed the 1-lakh mark in 59 days, and it took only 12 days to double the number. As the testing capacities have increased up to 34,525 per day, the last three lakh tests were done at a rate of one lakh tests per four days.  Rapid antigen kit Meanwhile, the health department has recently ordered for the use of rapid antigen test kits for detecting the virus. The tests can be utilised at places such as hospitals. Once tested positive, the patients will be sent to the COVID designated hospitals. Samples drawn from symptomatic patients that test negative will have to undergo RT-PCR test for the final result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-in-state-crosses-10-lakh-mark/article31998462.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cannabis racket busted, eight students held||The Guntur Urban police unearthed a liquid ganja (cannabis) racket, which has links to tribal villages in Visakhapatnam district, and arrested eight students in this connection. The Old Guntur police, who are investigating the case, seized about 50 bottles of the banned liquid, each measuring 20 to 50 ml, a digital weighing machine, Rs. 30,000 cash and eight kg of ganja from the accused. “We are trying to find out the place where it is being made, the kingpin of the racket, suppliers and any other persons involved in the activities,” said Guntur Urban Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammi Reddy. The arrested included students of engineering, pharmacy, management, B.Sc and Intermediate of various educational institutions in Guntur, the SP told The Hindu on Sunday. Main supplier Acting on a tip-off that liquid ganja was being supplied to students, a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (ESP-East) B. Sita Ramaiah and CI R. Suresh Babu picked up two persons. Based on their confession, the police team rounded up alleged supplier Korra Podilam and the other gang members. “The accused were selling the substance in 10 ml to 50 ml bottles, with the latter priced at Rs. 3,000 apiece,” Mr. Ammi Reddy said. Korra Podilam of Vangasara village in Chintapalli mandal of Visakhapatnam, who completed B.Sc, had been supplying the banned drug to the gang, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cannabis-racket-busted-eight-students-held/article31998479.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kollu falsely implicated in murder case, says Naidu||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister, N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that party leader and former Minister Kollu Ravindra was falsely implicated in a murder case for raising voice against the State government’s failures and atrocities. In a teleconference with party leaders on Sunday, Mr. Naidu launched a scathing attack on the State government and the police for “foisting a murder case” and arresting Mr. Ravindra. He was targeted for questioning the government’s misdeeds and corruption. “The fact is that he has a very clean public record all through his political career. The murder of YSRCP leader Moka Bhaskar Rao was the result of an old rivalry and a struggle for supremacy between two families in Machilipatnam. In 2013, one Chinta Surendra was murdered and now Bhaskar Rao’s murder was a revenge killing. The families of Surendra and Bhaskar Rao were involved in these murders but the YSRCP used this as a pretext to take its political revenge against Mr. Ravindra, he alleged. He accused the ruling party of bringing in a new vicious culture of implicating political rivals and opponents in criminal cases without a preliminary inquiry or investigation. Moka Bhaskar Rao was accused no. 5 in Chinta Surendra murder case. But after the YSRCP came to power, Bhaskar Rao’s name was removed from the chargesheet and a rowdysheet against him was withdrawn, Mr. Naidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kollu-falsely-implicated-in-murder-case-says-naidu/article31998272.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sakambari fest concludes at Durga temple||The three-day Sakambari festival concluded at the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanam here on Sunday with the priests offering ‘purnahuti’. The authorities decorated the sanctum sanctorum with vegetables and fruits. Vedic scholars performed the ‘satha chandi yagam’, ‘havan’ and other rituals. Meanwhile, ‘rudrabhishekam’ was performed at the Malleswara Swamy temple (Sivalayam) as part of the ‘Guru Purnima’ celebrations. As the conclusion of the festival coincided with Guru Purnima, devotees visited the temple and offered special prayers to Goddess Kanaka Durga. ‘Kadabam’ prasadam prepared with the decorated vegetables was distributed among the devotees. “We have adhered to the COVID-19 protocol. Devotees with valid tickets alone are allowed inside the temple,” said Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu. Traditional offering Devotees from Hyderabad offered the traditional ‘bonam’ to the Goddess. They also offered the presiding deity ‘pattu vastralu’. Women devotees thronged the temple carrying the traditional offering made of rice, jaggery and curd on their head. The Bhagyanagar Sri Mahankali Jatara Utsavaala Committee, a conglomeration of more than 300 temples in Hyderabad, brings ‘bonalu’ every year during ‘ashada maasam’ as per the Telugu almanac. The committee members said they were continuing the tradition even after bifurcation of the State as it was meant for the well-being of the Telugu-speaking people in the two States and across the country. Kanaka Durga Temple Trust Board chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and Mr. Suresh Babu performed ‘puja’ along with the committee members. Deity decorated with vegetables Special Correspondent from Kurnool adds: Bhramaramba Devi’s idol at Bramaramba Mallikarjuna Devasthanam at Srisailam along with its ‘utsava murthi’ were decorated tastefully with leafy vegetables, fruits and other types of green vegetables. On the occasion of Guru purnima on Sunday, the temple premises was decorated with 40 different kinds of vegetables and fruits and 3,500 kg of them were procured for the purpose, Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao said. Special prayers offered and pujas were performed to the goddess seeking blessing for good rainy season and good yield. The special prayers were for the Loka Kalyanam and general well being of the people, said the E.O. in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sakambari-fest-concludes-at-durga-temple/article31998276.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil Supplies Corporation has no funds to clear farmers’ dues||The Andhra Pradesh Civil Supplies Corporation, which had procured paddy from the farmers during the rabi season (2019), has no funds to clear the dues. With the farmers’ dues touching Rs. 1,200 crore, the corporation is waiting for assistance from the government. Sources said that the corporation had procured 31,51,832.200 tonnes of paddy from the farmers in the State during the Rabi Marketing Season-2019. More than 2.13 lakh farmers benefited with the procurement that was worth Rs. 5,741.85 crore. The government had so far paid Rs. 4,910.01 crore. It, however, could clear the dues of 1,88,497 farmers. “There is a tremendous pressure from the farmers to clear the dues,” an official said on condition of anonymity. The corporation needs not less than Rs. 8,000 crore if kharif requirements are also to be taken into consideration. It, however, needs Rs. 1,200 crore immediately. In the normal course, the Centre reimburses the expenditure incurred by the government on procurement, storage and distribution of stocks through the totally decentralised procurement process. Meanwhile, the corporation has been exploring all available options. The bankers too are not willing to sanction new loans. “The banks are not forthcoming. Right now, we are managing the show with the term loan of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD),” the official said. The corporation has already availed of a loan of Rs. 3,000 crore from the banks to facilitate uninterrupted procurement of paddy from the farmers. The loan is to meet the working capital requirement for procurement. The loan is usually repaid as and when the government releases the subsidy component, which is shared by both the Central and State governments, on the foodgrains procured and distributed through the Public Distribution System. The government had earlier announced that the farmers would be paid within 72 hours of procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-civil-supplies-corporation-has-no-funds-to-clear-farmers-dues/article31998277.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy Department to upgrade systems to ensure quality power||The Energy Department has prepared a roadmap for upgrading Transmission and Distribution (T&D) systems and enhancing the financial and operational performance of DISCOMs so as to ensure quality, cost-effective and reliable (24x7) power supply. According to senior officials, the department has targeted a 12-15% reduction in the Aggregate Technical & Commercial (AT&C) losses. The AT&C is a combination of energy loss (technical losses plus theft plus inefficiency in billing) and commercial losses (defaults in payments plus inefficiency in collection). It has also been contemplated to reduce the Aggregate Revenue Realised – Average Cost of Service gap (ACS-ARR) to zero by 2024-25 against Rs. 1.45 per unit (Rs. 8,120 crore) in 2020, which was Rs. 2.26 per unit (Rs. 12,325 crore) in 2019. With the support of the Ministry of Power, the Energy Department is also planning to create demand-driven infrastructure for faultless supply of electricity to consumers. As part of this, the department is planning segregation of agriculture feeders which allows shifting agriculture load towards green energy. Works under way The DISCOMs have already completed 77 new substations and laying of 19,503-km-long 33kv, 11kv and LT lines at a cost of approximately Rs. 525 crore. At the same time, the utilities have laid focus on Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and Distribution Management System (DMS). SCADA is a globally accepted means of real-time monitoring of electricity power systems, particularly generation and transmission systems and the DMS facilitates outage management. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy directed the top officials of the Energy Department to take up the above projects on a priority basis. Energy Secretary and TRANSCO CMD N. Srikant, Joint Managing Director K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu and the CMDs of DISCOMs have initiated necessary steps, according to a press release by State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-department-to-upgrade-systems-to-ensure-quality-power/article31998477.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC union seeks testing of all staff||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Employees’ Union have urged the management to arrange for coronavirus testing of every employee of the public transport giant. A sharp spike in the positive cases is becoming a cause of worry for the departments that directly come in contact with the public on a daily basis. Employees’ union general secretary P. Damodar Rao said going by the management’s own admission, nearly 30 employees have been tested positive so far.  Infection count “A woman conductor of Kadapa RTC depot succumbed to the virus recently. Traffic and garage staff in other depots have also been tested positive, causing worry among the RTC employees. The management should not waste more time and arrange for COVID-19 testing for all the employees,” said Mr. Damodar Rao. In a letter submitted to Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Principal Secretary (Transport) M.T. Krishna Babu, and RTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Madireddy Pratap, Mr. Rao demanded that the staff on duty should be supplied with masks and sanitisers. ‘No breath analysers’ The buses should be sanitised after every trip, before allowing the next batch of passengers to board the vehicles. The government should extend the insurance facility of Rs. 50 lakh to employees in case of death due to the virus,” he said. The employees’ union leader also wanted the management to do away with the use of breath analysers for traffic and garage staff on duty till the impact of the virus fades. “If a staff member is suspected to be under the influence of alcohol, he could be replaced with other staff,” he suggested. “Use of breath analysers at a time when the COVID-19 cases are rising would tantamount to heightening the risk of its further spread,” said Mr. Damodar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-union-seeks-testing-of-all-staff/article31998467.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Resolve bifurcation issues with TS’||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Sunday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, urging him to take suitable steps to resolve the pending issues related to State bifurcation with Telangana. Mr. Ramakrishna, in the letter, pointed out that issues pertaining to the Schedule 9 of the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014 were not resolved yet. “Many educational institutions and museums belonging to Andhra Pradesh are yet to be relocated. As per the Schedule 10, the combined assets worth somewhere between Rs. 73,000 crore and 1.86 lakh crore. Andhra Pradesh should get a share of 58% of these assets,” said Mr. Ramakrishna. Power sharing The CPI leader said Andhra Pradesh has 70% rights on Nagarjuna Sagar as Rayalaseema and coastal Andhra Pradesh had contributed 70% of the expenditure of the Nagarjuna Sagar project. “Even to share the power generated from the project, Andhra Pradesh should have 70% rights over it. The project administration is still with the Telangana government. The recommendations of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) are hardly honoured,” he pointed out. The problems pertaining to the power employees needs to be solved. About 12,000 employees were subjected to hardships with a ‘wicked plan’ that AP should shoulder 50% of the burden of salaries. It was a gross injustice to treat 26 Backward Classes (BCs) belonging to AP as Other Castes (OCs) in Telangana. The Chief Minister should take up this matter with his Telangana counterpart, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-urges-cm-to-resolve-bifurcation-issues-with-ts/article31998274.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC staff told to take all care to prevent infection||Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari has advised all the officers and staff working in the High Court (HC) to take the necessary precautionary measures in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. At least 26 officers and staff of the High Court have been tested positive for the virus till date, said a letter written by the In- charge Registrar General G. Sunitha on behalf of Chief Justice Maheswari. She stated that even as the judicial officers and staff of the High Court have risen to the occasion, it was to be kept in mind that they needed to work at par with the frontline workers as the functioning of the courts was essential to protect and safeguard the rights of individuals. “As the services rendered by the judiciary are indispensable, the judicial officers and staff have to think positively and train themselves to prevent the spread of the virus,” Ms. Sunitha observed. As far as the High Court officers and staff who are infected, Chief Justice Maheswari is personally monitoring their health condition through a team headed by the Registrar (Management).  Advisory issued While asserting that strengthening immunity and making the required changes in lifestyle are the most effective ways to combat the virus, the doctors have recommended 18 measures to be undertaken by the officers and staff of courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-high-court-staff-told-to-take-all-care-to-prevent-covid-19/article31998280.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan seeks financial assistance for advocates||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has demanded that the government should explain why it has not released Rs. 100 crore for the advocates’ welfare fund, and give reasons for not paying the monthly stipend of Rs. 5,000 to junior lawyers under the ‘YSR Law Nestam’ scheme. He stated in a press release that the advocates were leading hand-to-mouth existence due to the closure of courts including the High Court on account of the lockdown.  Meagre earnings A vast majority of the advocates were getting meagre income as the court work came to a standstill. The junior lawyers would have managed their financial position to some extent if stipend was paid to them as per the Chief Minister’s commitment. As far as the government’s Rs. 100 crore contribution to advocates’ welfare fund is concerned, a G.O. was issued but the amount was not released. Mr. Kalyan stated that the Bezawada Bar Association has, in a representation, mentioned that about 80 % of the advocates were struggling to keep themselves afloat and wanted a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to be given for six months irrespective of their position (senior or junior). The government should, therefore, help advocates in overcoming the severe problems caused by lockdown, the JSP president appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-seeks-financial-assistance-to-advocates/article31998279.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases in Krishna rise to 1,003||Krishna district reported 62 new cases and one death during the past 24 hours taking the tally to 1,743 and death toll to 69. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, the district now has 1,003 active cases and 671 patients have recovered from the disease so far. The recovery rate is 39%. Having the second-highest number of deaths after Kurnool, the district’s mortality rate is highest in the State and also more than double of the State’s mortality rate of 1.24%. No update on containment zones Meanwhile, people in the district were clueless about the number of containment zones or the areas where there is a high prevalence of the virus as the district administration has not revised the list of containment zones since June 9, when the tally was only 600. At that time, the city’s 42 municipal wards were declared as containment zones by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-in-krishna-rise-to-1003/article31997943.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 houses damaged in wall collapse||At least two houses on the hill slope of Vidyadharapuram were damaged after the retaining wall collapsed in the early hours of Sunday. While one house was completely damaged the other was partially affected. According to G. Durga, whose family resides in the house on Kondabadi street that was damaged completely, the retaining wall above and adjacent to their house first partly collapsed around 10 p.m. on Saturday. “Later, towards early morning, the entire wall came down damaging our house completely and the adjacent house of an elderly couple partially. All of us are now homeless,” she said. While none of Ms. Durga’s family were hurt the neighbours sustained minor injuries. Though such incidents are not uncommon in the rainy season in the city where a huge number of households are located in various hillslope areas, the fresh incident triggered fear among the dwellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-houses-damaged-in-wall-collapse/article31997942.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary to set up more blood banks||To deal with pandemics and to assist patients with kidney ailments, the number of blood banks and dialysis centres would be increased across Krishna district, said M. Satish Babu, the new Governor of the Rotary District 3020. Mr. Satish Babu said the district body had intensified its fight against polio under the guidance of the Rotary International and donated funds to the tune of Rs. 8 crore to the foundation this year. Of the total sum, Rs. 3 crore was meant for polio fund and Rs. 3 crore for Endowment fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-to-set-up-more-blood-banks/article31997954.ece
06 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Education Minister puts private schools on notice||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh has said a decision on the fresh academic year was not yet taken in view of the COVID-19 situation but a few private schools had started taking online classes which was against the rules. In a statement, the Minister said he had also received reports of some schools collecting fee. He said institutions were not allowed to collect fee until the government notified for it and warned stringent action against law-violators. In a statement on Saturday , Commissioner Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu said in view of the seriousness of the issue and to avoid further spread of the virus, the staff members were permitted to work from home for a week and they should attend office from July 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-minister-puts-private-schools-on-notice/article31998475.ece
06 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Dept. geared up to meet future expansion needs: DGP||Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang has said the Police Department is fully geared up to meet its future expansion needs in the city. “We are looking for accommodation in Vizag for the last couple of days,” Mr. Sawang said while addressing the media here on Sunday. Mr. Sawang said establishment of a Greyhounds facility was mentioned in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014. The existing facility was in Hyderabad, which had become a part of Telangana. The government earmarked about Rs. 220 crore for the purpose, he added. “After almost five years, the Greyhounds facility is taking shape with the allotment of 384 acres at Jagannadhapuram village of Anandapuram mandal,” he said, and added that many features would have to be incorporated to make it a full-fledged training centre-cum-residential facility for the elite force. “The allotted land extent is not sufficient. The facility needs a forest-like land for training purpose. We have inspected a few sites near Simhachalam for it,” the DGP said. After the Cabinet nod for the new facility, the land was inspected by Principal Secretary (Revenue) Usharani and district Collector V. Vinay Chand a few days ago. A part of the land, about 145 acres, was encroached upon by the local farmers. A three-member committee was constituted to look into the matter. Pat for personnel Giving a pat to the police personnel, who had been sparing no effort to check the spread of COVID-19, the DGP said they rose to the occasion. Mr. Sawang said that as many as 466 police personnel from the State, including 13 from Visakhapatnam district, contracted the virus and one policeman died in the line of duty. The department was taking all measures to create awareness on the precautions to be taken by the policemen. Besides conducting awareness camps, it was confining elderly policemen to administrative duties, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-dept-geared-up-to-meet-future-expansion-needs-dgp/article31998469.ece
06 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district reports 40 new infections||As many as 40 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 1,278 on Sunday. Meanwhile, 46 persons, who were undergoing treatment, were discharged after they tested negative. With the new cases, the total number of active cases is 776 and the number of persons discharged is 495. It may be mentioned that seven persons died due to COVID-19 in the district. Out of the seven, five hailed from Visakhapatnam district, while one was from Srikakulam and another one was from Hyderabad city. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, with the addition of new cases, 25 new clusters — Chettupalli, Doctors Colony, Dosuru, Drivers Colony, Gavarakancharapalem, Gudlavanipalem, JNNURM Colony, Pineapple Colony, Kothamalapeta, Pedabodepalli, Nehru Nagar, Mangapalem SIG Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Shanti Nagar and a few other areas have been added. As on Sunday, there are 98 very active clusters and 121 active clusters in the district. A total of 64 clusters have been identified as ‘dormant’ and already 30 were denotified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-reports-40-new-infections/article31998490.ece
06 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Widespread rain likely||A low pressure area has formed over north-west Bay of Bengal off Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts, under the influence of cyclonic circulation over west-central and adjoining north-west Bay of Bengal off north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts, according to the IMD. Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and Yanam on July 6, 8 and 9 and in south coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema on July 6. The southwest monsoon has been active over coastal A.P. and weak over Rayalaseema. Rainfall occurred at most places in coastal A.P. and Yanam and at isolated places over Rayalaseema. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday are: Chintur, Vararamachandrapur, Kunavaram (all in East Godavari) 6 each, Parvathipuram (Vizianagaram) and Narsipatnam (Visakhapatnam) 5 each, Seethanagaram (Vizianagaram), Chintalapudi and Polavaram (West Godavari) and Tiruvuru (Krishna) 4 each, Kukunoor (West Godavari), Bapatla (Guntur), Karamchedu (Prakasam), Palakonda (Srikakulam), Elamanchili (Visakhapatnam), Velairpad (West Godavari), Garugubilli (Vizianagaram) and Kurupam (Vizianagaram) 3 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/widespread-rain-likely/article31998269.ece
06 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU: arrest pharma firm officials||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions(CITU) district committee has demanded arrest of the management of Sainor pharma company for their alleged negligence, which caused leakage of hydrogen sulphide resulting in the death of two workers and five other falling ill at the plant recently. In a statement on Sunday, the committee general secretary G. Koteswara Rao and honorary president Ganisetty Satyanarayana said that the district administration has already declared that prima facie evidence pointed to the negligence of the management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-arrest-pharma-firm-officials/article31998482.ece
06 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drug racket busted, four held||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) police busted a drug trade racket by arresting four persons, who were allegedly involved in it, and recovered 2.5 grams of methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA) powder, 61 blots of Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), six ganja packets and Rs. 9,500 cash from them here, on Sunday. The arrested persons were identified as Manukonda Satyanarayana alias Sattipandu (26) of Seethampeta, Majji Ajay Kumar (24) of Narasimha Nagar, Kandhi Ravikumar (22) of BS Layout and Kethi Manoj Swaroop (24) of Kancharapalem area. Acting on a tip-off, the CTF team led by Assistant Commissioner of Police A. Trinad Rao, conducted a raid at Old Port Quarters in the city and nabbed the four accused. Mr.Trinad Rao said that among the accused, Satyanarayana was arrested in April, 2019 in the sensational rave party case, which was reported at Rushikonda beach. He was addicted to drugs since the age of 19. Ajay joined the gang and used to go to Bengaluru, from where he used to collect drugs from the contacts of Satyanarayana. In order to earn easy money, all the four used to sell drugs, Mr. Trinad Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drug-racket-busted-four-held/article31998488.ece
06 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP creating hurdles for executive capital in Vizag’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu should ask his four MLAs from the city to resign and seek a fresh mandate from the people, if the party is against making Visakhapatnam as the Executive Capital of Andhra Pradesh. “Mr. Naidu is shedding crocodile tears for Amaravati. The TDP wants north Andhra region for votes, but when it comes to development, it wants Amaravati as the capital,” the Minister told the media here on Sunday. ‘Growth engine’ He said Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had come up with the idea of three capitals to ensure decentralisation of administration. “Having good rail, road and air connectivity and good infrastructure, Visakhapatnam is well suited to be the the executive capital. It will be easy to develop the capital in Visakhapatnam at a fraction of the cost of the amount required to develop Amaravati. The city will attract investment and become the growth engine of the State,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. He alleged that the TDP was trying to stop the distribution of house site pattas to the poor. “BJP leader D. Purandeswari, who was elected as MP from Visakhapatnam in the past, is also speaking against the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-creating-hurdles-for-executive-capital-in-vizag/article31998463.ece
06 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special pujas||Special pujas were performed at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujapeta on the occasion of Guru Purnima on Sunday. Special pujas were also offered to Vyasa Maharshi on the occasion of Vyasa Purnima, according to temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi. Assistant EO V.B.V. Ramana Murthy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-pujas/article31998483.ece
06 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy CM to visit Paderu tomorrow||Deputy Chief Minister (Tribal Welfare) Pamula Pushpa Sreevani will tour Paderu on July 7. She will leave Visakhapatnam by road on Tuesday morning and visit the ITDA and hold meetings with the officials from 10.30 a.m. onwards. She will return to the city, the same evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-cm-to-visit-paderu-tomorrow/article31998484.ece
06 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||S. Kota MLA tests negative||Sringavarapukota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao, who was confirmed positive for coronavirus on June 21, has been tested negative, the district health authorities announced on Sunday. Even as the MLA developed no symptoms of virus, he underwent five medical tests between May 26 and June 21. He underwent two tests in the U.S. and three more in India. The final test results came positive and the MLA was put in isolation for 14 days. Mr. Srinivasa Rao underwent test on June 21 after an official with whom he interacted in the third week of June was tested positive. “All my previous test results were negative. That is why I participated in the Rajya Sabha polls in Amaravati on June 19. I developed no symptom during my isolation,” said Mr.Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/s-kota-mla-tests-negative/article31998282.ece
06 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 189 new cases, tally crosses 1,000-mark in Srikakulam||The number of COVID-19 positive cases have been going up each and every day in North Andhra region with the identification of new cases. The total number of cases are 2,738 on Sunday as against 886 by June 18. Within three weeks, the two-fold increase indicated the spread of the coronavirus in Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. On an average, nearly 200 cases are added daily in the region. A majority of the new cases are being found among the returnees staying in quarantine centres and facilitation centres. As per the government’s latest data released on Sunday night, the total number of cases have gone up to 1,278 in Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam registered 1,053 cases. The situation is relatively better in Vizianagaram district where 371 cases were reported so far. Although Srikakulam is in the second place in overall number, identification of new cases was more in the district. As many as 189 new cases were detected on Sunday alone, causing concern among the senior officials. The district which was completely free from coronavirus till the last week of April has now crossed 1,000-mark within 40 days. “We could collect samples of 98,367 persons in the last couple of months. The number is being increased every day as a precautionary measure. Fever survey in all houses is also going on. COVID-19 tests are recommended for all the persons suffering from fever since it is one of the important symptoms of coronavirus,” said District Collector J. Nivas. Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer J. Ravikumar said that many patients were recovering quickly in the hospitals although new cases were being registered. “As many as 127 out of 371 patients were discharged from the hospital. It is a good sign and makes new patients confident during the treatment,” said Mr. Ravikumar. The district administration has been adopting stringent measures to control the spread of coronavirus. It has brought entire Gajularega, Kalighat Road and other places under red zone category after finding out nearly 30 cases in the Fort City and surrounding areas. Vizianagaram Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma said that special sanitation drive was being taken in houses also apart from streets in the red zone areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/189-new-cases-push-tally-to-over-1000-in-srikakulam/article31997956.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beating boredom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beating-boredom/article31998496.ece
06 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Floral tributes offered to Pokala Dammakka||Pokala Dammakka, the tribal woman of the bygone era known for her unflinching devotion to Lord Rama, was remembered at a simple programme held in her honour at the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on Sunday. This year the Dammakka seva yatra, an annual event held in her memory, turned out to be a low-key affair. The customary yatra could not be held. However, the temple priests and a few tribal employees of the Endowments Department garlanded the statue of Dammakka inside the temple complex and offered floral tributes to her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/floral-tributes-offered-to-pokala-dammakka/article31998266.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Social vaccine is only remedy for now’||Scientists of CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), after studying 940 COVID-19 sample genome sequencing, reiterated that the ‘A2a’ is the most prevalent virus strain in the country from March to June. Most of the samples came from nine States — Gujarat, Telangana, Maharashtra, Odisha, Karnataka, Delhi, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. That 90% of the virus strain in the country conforms to those prevalent in rest of the world “means mutations are not happening as much and the research process on finding new drugs and vaccines can go on more sound lines”, said CCMB director Rakesh Mishra on Sunday. Though hectic efforts are being made to treat COVID-19 patients with available repurposed anti-viral drugs, he asserted that since vaccine development is a lengthy process, the only option left is a ‘social vaccine’. It means ‘maintaining personal hygiene, washing hands regularly, wearing a mask and maintaining social distance’ and rapidly testing more people even if they are asymptomatic to deal with alarming rise of COVID-19 cases in Telangana and across the country. “We are in a really bad shape and we are not sure of either the peak or plateau without taking up testing of samples on a massive scale. We are in for a long haul of four-five months at least,” he said. Fortunately, asymptomatic patients constitute 80% of the infected persons and the mortality rate, too, is low when compared to other countries. Whether this has happened due to our younger demographic profile and enhanced immunity due to earlier exposure to similar viruses or anything else is being studied, said the director. Lockdown advantage Earlier lockdowns did help in “giving us some advantage in slowing down the spread” but now we have to ensure that the hospitals are not filled up by minimising the number of sick people needing specialised medicare. But, this can be done only with citizens following the prevention methods of ‘social vaccine’ and not moving in large gatherings or hosting functions. “The rising number of cases is because more people seem to be under the impression that the virus will not infect them, so they are throwing caution to the winds but that is dangerous,” warned Dr. Mishra. “It is easy to blame the government but the onus is more on citizens on a ‘70:30’ ratio to show self-discipline if we are to not go on the route of disaster. We need to give breathing space to healthcare workers too by playing our part in taking precautions,” he added.  The rising number of cases is because more people seem to be under the impression that the virus will not infect them... but that is dangerous. Rakesh Mishra, Director, CCMB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-vaccine-is-only-remedy-for-now/article31998227.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||44 lakh tonne increase in food grain production on the cards||A whopping forty-four lakh tonne increase in production of food grains is expected in the two crop seasons this year on assumption that rains are normal, evenly spread out, with reservoirs - full. Increase in cultivation area under irrigation facilities was another factor that weighed with the Agriculture Department in estimating increase in production levels. The government had already announced that it will provide irrigation facility to the entire targeted area this year which is expected to bolster production. As much as 1.80 crore acres was projected for cultivation in two seasons, of which paddy alone will occupy 81.05 lakh acres. Also, farmers volunteered to bring back their barren lands to cultivation to take the benefit of investment support of Rs. 5,000 an acre for crops recommended by government. In this context, the government has deposited Rs. 7,000 crores in farmers’ bank accounts. A crop-wise targeted area, production and productivity report prepared by Agriculture Department for this year showed that the bulk of food grain production of 2.88 crore tonnes will come from paddy which will account for 2.54 crore tonnes. The grain production for two seasons last year was 2.44 crore tonnes, of which paddy was 1.95 crore tonnes. As many as twenty five crops of coarse cereals, pulses, oil seeds and a few food and non-food crops were listed with area of cultivation and production. The production of paddy in kharif was expected to be 1.21 crore tonnes and the area 41 lakh acres. Similarly, the production was likely to be 1.33 crore tonnes and area 39 lakh acres in rabi. The other major crops were cotton with a production of 14.71 lakh tonnes over 60.17 lakh acres. Red gram of 4.97 lakh tonnes over 12.33 lakh acres and groundnut of 2.91 lakh tonnes on 2.72 lakh acres were the other principal crops. Soyabean was expected to the tune of 3.77 lakh tonnes on 4.67 lakh acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/44-lakh-tonne-increase-in-food-grain-production-on-the-cards/article31998257.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SHG women roped in for seed balls||In a sustainable effort to improve the green (forest) cover in the district, which is at a poor 9.95% now, the administration of Mahabubnagar has decided to use/broadcast over one crore seed balls (bombs) prepared by women self-help groups (SHGs) as part of Haritha Haram programme this season. The broadcasting of seed balls would be in addition to the plantation of over 60 lakh seedlings and saplings taken up under the supervision of the Forest Department in the district. The seed balls would be broadcast on some barren hillocks in the district and planted in some other forest areas after good rainfall. “We have given the task of seed balls preparation to the women SHGs by supplying the material such as soil, cattle dung, seeds and bags through the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA). The Assistant Project Managers of DRDA were given a day’s training by the Forest Department officials on Friday on preparing the seed balls and in turn they would explain the procedure to community coordinators and SHG leaders,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao told The Hindu on Sunday explaining the process. The preparation of seed balls commenced in some villages on Saturday and is expected to be completed in about 10 days by involving most of the 10,505 SHGs having nearly 1.18 lakh women as their members. The DRDA has plans to get at least 8 lakh seed balls prepared in each of the 14 mandals with every woman expected to prepare 100 to 150 seed balls. “The red soil required for seed balls preparation is being procured mostly with the help of sarpanches and MPTC/ZPTC members by using tractors of Gram Panchayats and cattle dung is being purchased at Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,500 per tractor-load. After sieving the soil, it is mixed with cattle dung in 70:30 ratio and soil dough is prepared by using fresh dung for the required moisture or used cow urine if available. The balls are made by placing one or more seeds in the middle,” District Project Manager of DRDA A. Nagamallika said giving the details on how the SHGs are going about the task.  Dried in shade Seed balls prepared following the process would be dried in shade with proper ventilation for 3-4 days and packed bags of 500 balls each for broadcasting/planting. The DPM stated that only the seed varieties such as chinta (tamarind), seetaphal (custard apple), peepal (sacred fig), marri (banyan), kunkudu (soapnut), juvvi (ficus virens), vepa (neem), medi (cluster fig), amla (gooseberry) and others are used for seed balls in consultation with Forest Department as they grow in forest and could withstand water stress. “We have secured some seetaphal and tamarind seed from Kosigi area and speaking to ITDA officials in Mannanur, Srisailam and Adilabad for sourcing wild seed through the tribal SHGs,” Ms. Nagamallika stated. The seed balls preparation has already stated in CC Kunta, Hanwada, Nawabpeta, Gandeed, Mahabubnagar and a few other mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shg-women-roped-in-for-seed-balls/article31998285.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Call all-party meet on COVID: ex-MP||Former MP and TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi has appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to call for an all-party meeting to discuss and finalise a programme to control the dangerous spike of coronavirus cases in the State, particularly in the GHMC area. He said the TRS government has failed to initiate serious steps in tackling the crisis and it was time it took the views of Opposition parties and the people into confidence. He also demanded that the testing centres be increased in proportion to the demand for tests and the cost of the test be borne by the government.  He said specific guidelines must be issued to the private and government hospitals about admission and treatment and no suspected patient should be rejected admission by any hospital. He also sought the inclusion of COVID in the government’s Aarogyasri scheme. He put forth the demand to close wine shops and other public gathering places by 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-all-party-meet-on-covid-ex-mp/article31998229.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State government develops fodder action plan||The Telangana government has for the first time in the country developed an action plan for fodder for the livestock in the State with the support of Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute at Jhansi. Director of Animal Husbandry V. Laxma Reddy said the plan envisaged promoting white revolution in a big way as the State is endowed with plenty of water after construction of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. Since this had led to green revolution, the focus should now shift to white revolution with focus on making available sufficient fodder for cattle. As a first measure, the plan recommended that farmers dedicate 10% of their agriculture land for fodder production so that their cattle have food security. Milk production It was also suggested that milk production be stepped up to meet the requirement of Hyderabad which requires 25 lakh litres a day. When there is sufficient water available for agriculture and fodder production, there is no reason why cattle population should not grow. This will help milk production. Otherwise, the State was depended on Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to meet the requirement of Hyderabad. The plan also discussed the varieties of fodder crop to be cultivated in kharif and rabi and its conservation. The State had a fodder shortage of 50% and ready made feed for animals to the extent of 40%. The shortage could be overcome by exploiting the full potential of water. Chop cutters for ryots As regards conserving fodder for requirements in summer, it was suggested that the government supply chop cutters and baling machines to farmers to separate stem portion of fodder which also has high nutrition value. The same could be preserved till summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-government-develops-fodder-action-plan/article31998253.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Online classes for youth||GMR Varalakshmi Foundation (GMRVF), the Corporate Social Responsibility arm of GMR Group, has introduced online training modules for school/college dropout youth to enhance their employability skillsets. These customised classes can be accessed by the selected candidates from the safety of their homes. Candidates are being taught selected job role content, soft skills, spoken English and also assessed through online tests during these sessions. Courses under blended learning methods include – drywall & false ceiling technician, excavator operator, welding technician, refrigeration and air-conditioning technician, automobiles and two-wheeler repairing, solar technician, electrical house wiring, hotel management, computers - MS Office & DTP (only for women) and tailoring. Practical classes are to take place when the government notifies further relaxations on the lockdown. The GMR Varalakshmi Centre for Empowerment and Livelihoods (GMRVCEL) began operations in July, 2008 with four courses to train around 400 youths every year. It has now grown to training 1,000 youths a year, said an official spokesperson on Sunday. Skill training also has been extended to Raikal and Nagaram in Jagtial and Sircilla districts and at Muchintal, Rangareddy district. Through ‘Empower’, traditional handicrafts sourced from self-help groups are also being marketed through space provided inside the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-classes-for-youth/article31998241.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Telangana will lose 130 TMC if Almatti dam height is raised’||AICC secretary and former MLA Ch. Vamshichand Reddy urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to protest Karnataka government’s proposal to raise Almatti dam’s height as Telangana would lose 130 TMC if the expansion plans go ahead. At a press conference here, he said he Karnataka government has sent a proposal to the Centre for increasing the Almatti dam height from 519.6 meters to 524.2 meters. If the height is increased, Karnataka will be able to use 303 TMC of water, while the present usage was 173 TMC. It means Telangana will lose 130 TMC. IIT study Mr. Reddy reminded that the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, based on the Bachavat tribunal allocations, had clearly stated that a height of 518.7 meters would be enough for Alamatti dam but the Karnataka government wants to increase the height. It is quite surprising that the Chief Minister has remained silent like he did when the Andhra Pradesh government issued Government Orders to withdraw additional water from Pothireddypadu head regulator. “This will be a great loss to Telangana and the future of the State is at stake,” he said, and demanded the government to immediately call for an all-party meeting. ‘Speak to Karnataka CM’ Mr. Reddy also wanted the Chief Minister to speak to his counterpart in Karnataka and also send a team to the Central government expressing the State’s serious concern. He further asserted that this increase in height will affect not only Telangana but also Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. The increase in height will also lead to serious risk of floods to Sathara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts of Maharashtra. He said the increase in height has been proposed at a cost of Rs. 61,000 crore, including Rs. 32,000 crore for land acquisition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-will-lose-130-tmc-if-almatti-dam-height-is-raised/article31998259.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Learn from Delhi and AP, Komatireddy tells CM||Accusing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of utterly failing in dealing with the COVID-19 situation in the State, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy said he should learn from the Delhi and Andhra Pradesh governments.   In a statement here, he said when the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh could do 10 lakh tests, why were just one lakh tests conducted in Telangana so far, he asked and attributed it to poor management by the Chief Minister. In Delhi, patients were put up in five star hotels acquired by the government. He alleged Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao has moved to his farmhouse ever since coronavirus cases were reported in Pragathi Bhavan and it showed the seriousness with which the government head was functioning. Intellectuals and academics should think about such governance seriously, he said.  The Congress leader asked the government to explain how the funds donated to CMRF were spent and demanded that tests should be done free of cost and that COVID-19 be included in Aarogyasri scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/learn-from-delhi-and-ap-komatireddy-tells-cm/article31998230.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to scale up freight carrying capacity||SCR is setting up business development units at both zonal and divisional level to double the freight by 2024 at the same time putting focus on non-bulk goods traffic on directions of the Railway Board. Chief freight transportation manager B. Nagya will be the convener with members being chief commercial manager (freight marketing) B.S. Christopher, FA&CAO/T Korram Kishore and chief rolling stock engineer Prasun Chakravarthy. Similar units are also being formed in six divisions. Freight traffic is on the track of recovery, increasing from 4.81 MT in April to 6.71 MT in May and 6.86 MT in June. Cement loading which was only 0.21 MT in April has risen continually to 2.23 MT in May and to 2.27 MT in June. Food-grains loading in April has increased by more than 174% compared to same period last year — 2.71 MT this year compared to 0.9 MT last year, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-to-scale-up-freight-carrying-capacity/article31998239.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to probe ‘scam’ in NRLM funds||The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has requested Union Minister of Rural Development Narendra Singh Tomar to order a detailed inquiry into alleged misappropriation of National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) funds in Livestock Livelihoods (LLH) unit of Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) in 2018-19 and 2019-20. In a communication to the Minister, a copy of which was released to the media on Sunday, party national executive member P. Shekar Rao charged that Rs. 10 crore was misappropriated in the name of technician training to ‘Pashumitras’. Mr. Rao explained that 2,875 Livestock Farmer Producer Groups (LFPGs) were formed to enhance the animal productivity and value of produce of women self-help groups. But, more than 75% of LFPG members do not possess a single sheep/goat and more number of LFPGs were formed for the “sake of commissions” on purchase of items not useful for the purpose. Equipment like digital weighing machines, drenching gun, de-sticking sprayer and vaccine carrier were purchased without inviting any tenders. There was misappropriation of funds through purchase of ‘Pashumitra’ kits through printing job work of manual, registers, animal health cards, flip charts etc., he claimed “Crore of rupees were spent to train more than 2,300 SHG members as ‘Pashumitras’ without obtaining accreditation from the director of animal husbandry department or from the veterinary university,” he said. The BJP further accused that the particulars available with Telangana SERP are ‘bogus’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-probe-scam-in-nrlm-funds/article31998242.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Goldsmith found dead in Hussainsagar||The body of a 34-year-old goldsmith was retrieved from Hussainsagar Lake here on Sunday. The victim, Paltu Pan of Doodh Bowli, hails from West Bengal. According to Ramgoplapet police, Paltu Pan, committed suicide by jumping in the lake as he was scared of having contracted coronavirus. “For the last 15 days, he had cold, cough and breathing problem. Local doctors advised him to visit a corporate hospital, where he was denied admission and asked to get admitted at Gandhi Hospital,” the investigators said. He did not go to Gandhi Hospital and went home on Friday. Later in the evening, Paltu Pan asked his friend Sriramulu to take him to Tank Bund where he walked for a few metres and suddenly jumped into the waters and drowned by the time police reached the spot. Inter student An Intermediate second year student was found dead at his residence in Manikonda on Sunday. The victim, K. Sravan Bharadwaj (18) committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan. The incident took place around 3.30 p.m. While his father is a chemistry lecturer, mother works as a correspondent with a Telugu news channel. According to police, the parents reprimanded the boy when he came home late at night, as a result he resorted to the extreme step.  There is always someone to listen at +914066202000 in caseof any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/goldsmith-found-dead-in-hussainsagar/article31998245.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Real estate broker held for ‘raping’ minor||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her mother’s ‘boyfriend’ at Srinivasapuram Colony in Vanasthalipuram. According to police, Gadusu Narsimha Yadav (50), a real estate broker from Patelguda, raped the girl on June 22, in the absence of her mother. He threatened her to kill her in case she revealed about the offence to family or friends. However, the incident came to light only on Sunday morning when the girl’s mother noticed that she was upset for the past few days and asked her the reasons. The mother lodged a complaint with Vanasthalipuram police, based on which a case under Sections 376 (2) (n) and 506 of Indian Penal Code and Section 5 and 6 of POCSO Act, was booked against Yadav. Police said that for the past 10 years, the mother along with her two children was living separately from her husband and got acquainted with Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/real-estate-broker-held-for-raping-minor/article31998249.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Power bills for June full of errors, alleges Uttam||A day before the Congress planned massive protests across the State against the ‘inflated’ power bills of the three-month lockdown period, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy wrote a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao seeking waiver and concessions in power bills. Terming the power bills as an assault on people, he sought 100% waiver of electricity bills for the lockdown period for the Below Poverty Line (BPL) families and reduction in bill amount for others rectifying all the mistakes in the billing method. “Similarly power bills, including fixed, minimum and regular charges of all Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) should also be waived off by 100% for the lockdown as they could not carry out any commercial activity during the lockdown period,” Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded in the open letter on Sunday. He said out of 95 lakh power consumers in Telangana nearly 75 lakh are in the domestic category and almost 80% of them consume below 200 units per month. They are primarily divided in three categories based on their consumption, 0-100 units, 100-200 units and 200 units and above. The tariff per unit is based on consumption and Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has approved the tariff for monthly basis. However, in violation of TSERC guidelines, the TSSPDCL has generated bills based on overall consumption done in 90 days. Consequently, the consumers have been asked to pay Rs. 9 per unit instead of regular Rs. 4.3 per unit due to change in category based on total number of units consumed in 90-day period, he said. Telescopic method Mr. Reddy also demanded that the State government shift to the telescopic method of billing instead of continuing with the present non-telescopic method where people were forced to pay higher rates for less consumption. The TPCC chief alleged that despite lakhs of consumers raising complaints about errors in their electricity bills, neither the TSSPDCL nor the energy department took any corrective measures. Instead, the consumers were threatened with disconnection if they didn't pay the inflated and wrong bills on time. Pleas of opposition parties were also ignored, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-bills-for-june-full-of-errors-alleges-uttam/article31998258.ece
06 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free oxygen cylinder service rolled out in city||To help COVID-19 patients or suspects battling low oxygen levels, the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind’s city unit has started a free oxygen cylinder service. Jamaat-e-Islami city president Mohammed Rashaduddin said the move came after the organisation was apprised of the severe want of oxygen cylinders by those who have been unwell. Immediate relief “We started this initiative around 48 hours ago and have delivered 42 cylinders so far. We found that oxygen cylinders are short in supply and needed by patients. Several hospitals have not been admitting patients and COVID-19 patients need oxygen. This can provide immediate relief,” he said. The socio-religious organisation is providing 17-litre and 40-litre cylinders. Beneficiaries will have to pay a fully-refundable deposit amount of Rs. 10,000 for the 17-litre cylinder and Rs. 20,000 for the 40-litre one. The moment the cylinders are returned, the deposit will be handed back to them, Mr Rashaduddin said. Prescription mandatory “There are some conditions such as doctor’s prescription, which is mandatory, and copies of ID proof of the patient and attendant. The cylinder will be given to any Indian citizen. This has been done due to the fact that several people wanted to keep the cylinder as a back-up. We are saying that only those in need must have them. We are giving flow pipe, regulator and other things as well,” he said, adding that, so far, six cylinders have been returned by beneficiaries. Those in need of oxygen cylinders can contact 87123-13740 and 82474-34088.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-oxygen-cylinder-service-rolled-out-in-city/article31998237.ece
06 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eight booked for defying lockdown rules||Eight people, including a female Ukraine national, were booked by Banjara Hills police on Saturday for defying lockdown norms by organising a gathering in Park Hyatt. Noted pubs and hotels owner Santhosh Reddy, Babu Kiran, Vijay Rama Rao, Raghuveer Reddy, along with their girlfriends were celebrating the birthday of Santosh Reddy. “Only three people are permitted in a hotel room, but there were eight people there. Acting on a tip-off, we raided the hotel room and took them into custody,” police said. A case was booked under Section 188 of IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-booked-for-defying-lockdown-rules/article31998248.ece
06 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Survey for 4-lane greenfield highway begins||The land survey for the proposed Khammam-Devarapalli four-lane greenfield highway project is progressing at a brisk pace in Kallur division and parts of Khammam division with the executing agencies expediting the process of laying alignment stones in Vemsoor, Thallada, Penuballi and Kallur mandals. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has proposed to construct the four-lane access controlled greenfield highway of a length of little over 162 km connecting Khammam, the historic fort town of Telangana with Andhra Pradesh’s Devarapalli at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,609 crore. The project was approved under the centrally-sponsored Bharatmala Pariyojana’s economic corridor development initiative more than one-and-a-half years ago. The project involves acquisition of about 1,996 acres of agricultural lands spread in 31 villages of ten mandals of the district. The proposed greenfield express highway is likely to extend a distance of 96 km in Khammam district. The move to acquire the large tracts of agricultural lands for the project evoked widespread protests from aggrieved farmers in several mandals, including Chintakani and Vemsoor in 2019. Various farmers’ bodies such as the Telangana Rythu Sangham spearheaded a joint agitation demanding shelving of the greenfield project last year. Many aggrieved farmers registered their objections with the authorities expressing their serious concern over the potential risk of losing their livelihoods if their fertile lands, spanning across well-irrigated areas, were acquired for the project. After a gap of several months, the executing agencies of the project have embarked on the land survey in Kallur division over a week ago. Joint Collector Madhusudhan Rao held a meeting with the farmers at the RDO's office in Kallur on Saturday. The revenue authorities initiated an exercise to clear the doubts of the farmers and dispose off their objections, if any, over the project, sources in the Revenue Department said. Instead of widening the existing Khammam-Devarapalli highway, the greenfield project is proposed in an arbitrary manner, deplored Telangana Rythu Sangham district president B Rambabu. The new project entails enormous loss of productive agricultural lands and livelihoods of scores of farmers in ten mandals of the district known for their immense agricultural potential, he noted. The government should ensure provision of adequate compensation to the farmers as per the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013, at least three times more than the market price of their lands, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/survey-for-4-lane-greenfield-highway-begins/article31998268.ece
06 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam man dies of COVID||A 62-year-old person died of COVID-19 here on Sunday, taking the total death toll due to the infection to six in the district so far. The deceased hailed from a village in Raghunadhapalem mandal near here. He died while undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital late on Sunday afternoon. He had underlying health conditions, sources said. The entire hospital premises was fully sanitised following the incident. The town-based Annam Seva Foundation volunteered to shift the body to the deceased’s native village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-man-dies-of-covid/article31998231.ece
06 July 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Two Corona positive cases at Medak||: Two positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Medak on Sunday. According to sources, a 51-year old person from Chegunta mandal headquarters tested positive at Chest Hospital in Hyderabad. Another case of a head constable testing positive was also reported from the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-corona-positive-cases-at-medak/article31998265.ece
06 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Sahasra Kalasha Abhishekam’ performed||In view of the fast spreading corona positive cases, the organisers of Jyothirvastu Vidya Peetham organised ‘Sahasra Kalasha Abhishekam’ for Goddess Saraswati on the peetham premises on Sunday. Following the corona norms of following social distancing and wearing masks, the rituals were performed. Maheswara Sharma Siddhanti of Vidya Peetham organised the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sahasra-kalasha-abhishekam-performed/article31998264.ece
06 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mumbai returnees stare at uncertainty of livelihood||Returning from Mumbai amid the COVID-19 scare has landed Channarayala Buchaiah and his family in a piquant situation, who now face loss of livelihood. Buchaiah, his wife Suguna, son Kanakaiah and daughter-in-law Tara, along with their two-year-old daughter Ritika, have been residing in Borivali, a prime location in Mumbai for more than a decade. All of them were employed as house helps in more than a dozen houses and earning around Rs. 20,000 each monthly. Returned in May However, their lives turned upside down following the coronavirus scare. As the number of cases increased by the day, they returned to their native Dommata village in Daulatabad mandal on May 15. They were quarantined in a school in the village for 21 days along with others who too arrived from Mumbai with one week gap. According to sources, there are as many as 31 people in the village who had returned from Mumbai. They are now jobless as they do not find work in the village. Though some of them are willing to go back, most of those who employed them are not willing to hire them now. Now the question hunting these people is if they can go back to work and whether they can get employed at Borivali again. Helplessness “We had contacted some families which hired us in the past, over phone. But only half of them are ready to allow us to work again and there is no question of finding new employers. On the other hand, given that the number of cases in Mumbai is increasing phenomenally, we are apprehensive of going back. But the question is how long can we stay without work and what to do now?” asked Buchaiah, echoing the fears of several other Mumbai returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mumbai-returnees-stare-at-uncertainty-of-livelihood/article31998233.ece
06 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Several farmers denied Rythu Bandhu benefit||Baddam Shankar Reddy is a farmer from Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal. He and two of his family members own about 11 acres of land. All the land records are in their name, but luck has not favoured them. They have not been getting the Rythu Bandhu benefit for the last six times, which, according to them, was due to the fight with the government in the High Court for right compensation under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 (LA Act - 2013). Mr. Shankar Reddy claims that he and his family members are supposed to get a total of about Rs. 2.5 lakh under Rythu Bandhu for six times — first time Rs. 4,000 per acre and Rs. 5,000 from next time. It was stated that as many as 61 farmers are eligible for Rythu Bandhu money for about 300 acres, spread across Gudatipally village, which would get submerged under Gouravelli reservoir. These farmers had been making appeals with the district authorities since March 22, 2018, and had filed a petition in the High Court requesting to direct the government to extend the scheme to them. The High Court had directed the authorities to examine the appeal by the district monitoring committee to look into the issue and take appropriate decision. On February 10, the farmers again filed a plea before the HC over violation of orders by the authorities. Only after that, on March 20, their appeal was presented before the committee chaired by the District Collector and forwarded to the government for a decision. But, even after three months, nothing was communicated to the farmers. Recently, they again made an appeal with the authorities concerned to take a decision in this regard by explaining their plight. We have already been facing several problems financially. Please issue us new pass books and sanction Rythu Bandhu to us at the earliest, they urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/several-farmers-denied-rythu-bandhu-benefit/article31998262.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rs. 1 lakh COVID-19 bill for a day’s treatment||Ever since COVID-19 treatment was left to select private hospitals, there were complaints galore that the patients were fleeced for heavy tariff. The latest one such was by none other than a COVID warrior at Fever Hospital who was slapped a bill of over Rs. 1 lakh just for a day’s treatment. The management of the private hospital was said to have refused her discharge until she cleared the bill. The patient, a top official at the Fever Hospital, narrated her saga in a video that caught the attention of Health Minister Eatala Rajender. On her discharge, Mr. Rajender immediately issued instructions for her treatment at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences free of cost. These incidents have come to light at a time when private labs came under scanner for bungling in reports of people who tested themselves for virus. They take us to initial claims of government that it will not permit any kind of testing or treatment in private sector.      It is not just private hospitals but schools too which are accused of trying to make a fast buck exploiting the COVID 19 situation. The schools are already drilling holes in the pockets of parents asking them to buy tabs and smart phones for online classes to children. But, what is more alarming is the collection of fee at will by managements in defiance of government orders that it should be restricted to tuition fee only and no other heads. The video of a woman in conversation with a principal defending collection of transportation charges when the school had not yet reopened that went viral on social media had raised quite a few eye brows. It was not only various other fee that was collected, the managements flouted another important restriction not to insist on quarterly, half yearly and yearly fee. This was sort of bravado displayed by managements to government’s stern warning that strict action will be taken if it’s orders were ignored.      At a time when the novel coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in jet speed, the response of the elected representatives in containing its spread has been contrasting, particularly in organising or celebrating official and personal events. Against their preaching of maintaining social distancing, one of the basic norms to prevent the Covid spread, several leaders of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, including legislators, Members of Parliament, and Ministers, who have their birthdays during the lockdown or unlock period, have thrown caution to the winds by resorting to cake cutting and other gatherings with their near and dear ones, including some followers. In contrast, the elected representatives of opposition parties have shown some respect to the norms by asking their followers against celebrating the event in the wake of Covid spread. The official events of laying foundation stones/ground-breaking ceremonies for construction of the Rythu Vedikas, double-bedroom houses and other developmental works in the districts and in the State Capital have been held with some fanfare, if not in the regular measure, although it was avoidable. (N. Rahul & B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1-lakh-covid-19-bill-for-a-days-treatment/article31998255.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Callous attitude||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/callous-attitude/article31998236.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Eco-friendly tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eco-friendly-tradition/article31998252.ece
06 July 2020||Mumbai,||Ten Mumbai DCPs’ transfers scrapped||In an unprecedented move, the transfers of 10 Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) rank officers in Mumbai were cancelled on Sunday, barely three days after they were notified by the Police Commissioner. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh sought to explain that the transfers were cancelled after consultations between the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and the Home Department, and no political conclusions need to be drawn from the development. List announced on July 2 On July 2, 10 DCPs in the city were transferred. These included: Sangramsingh Nishandar being moved from Zone I to Operations, Dr. Rashmi Karandikar from Port Zone to Cyber, Shahaji Umap from Crime Branch (Detection) to Special Branch I, and Pranaya Ashok from Operations to Zone V. Additionally, Paramjit Dahiya was moved from Zone VII to Zone I, Prashant Kadam from Protection to Zone VII, Ganesh Shinde from Special Branch I to Port Zone, Dr. Mohan Dahikar from Zone XI to Crime Branch (Detection), Vishal Thakur from Cyber to Zone XI and Nandkumar Thakur from LA Tardeo to HQ-1. On July 5, Naval Bajaj, Joint Commission of Police (Administration), issued directions cancelling all 10 transfers. However, the reason for cancellation was not mentioned in the order. According to sources, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had intervened in the matter and ordered cancellation of the transfers. The CMO didn’t comment on the issue, despite several attempts to seek a response. Mr. Deshmukh stressed all inferences linking the development to a tussle between the three parties that form the MVA government, are baseless. “We want to state that the CM Office and Home Department have decided to cancel the internal transfers declared by Mumbai Police Commissioner. We are working in excellent coordination and there are no problems between us,” he said. Last week, both Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) ministers had expressed unhappiness over the haphazard manner in which the lockdown was extended in the State, and further tightened in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The parties were upset that they were not taken in to confidence before the decision. NCP chief Sharad Pawar had also met Mr. Thackeray on Friday to discuss the situation. Late-night meeting Later on Sunday, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh held a meeting with Mr. Thackeray at the latter’s residence. Details of the meeting were not available till the time of going to press.  We [CMO and Home Department] are working in excellent coordination Anil Deshmukh Maharashtra Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ten-mumbai-dcps-transfers-scrapped/article31998183.ece
06 July 2020||Mumbai,||CM, hoteliers discuss guidelines for reopening hospitality industry||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the State government is in the final stage of formulating guidelines for the reopening of hotels, restaurants and lodges. The CM along with Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Sunday held a virtual meeting with office bearers of hoteliers’ associations. “We need to take extreme precaution before reopening hotels and lodges. We understand that hotels are extremely important for tourism industry. The hotel management will have to take extreme precaution and every person coming to hotels and lodges will have to be checked as one positive patient may result in spread of the disease,” Mr. Thackeray said. He said the State government has no objection to reopening hotels. “However, certain guidelines will have to be adhered to. We are preparing such guidelines for hotels, restaurants and lodges which will be released soon, after which the establishments can be opened,” he said. The CM urged the hotel industry to refrain from laying off employees.  Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar said the government cannot allow to open all hotels at once, but will be giving permissions in a phase-wise manner. “The government expects self-discipline from the hotels as it won’t be possible to ensure checks at every step,” he said. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli of Indian Hotel Association said the government must look at the hotel industry as an important player in the fight against the novel coronavirus. “We are doing our best to keep employees with us despite facing problems. Almost 80% of employees in our industry are migrant workers. We request to give permission to reopen hotels at the earliest,” he said, adding that the time limit to keep hotels open should also be increased.  We are doing our best to keep employees with us despite problems Gurbaxish Singh Kohli Indian Hotel Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-hoteliers-discuss-guidelines-for-reopening-hospitality-industry/article31998188.ece
06 July 2020||Panaji,||Goa councillor succumbs to coronavirus||A 72-year-old councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council in Goa died due to COVID-19 in the wee hours on Sunday, a State Health Department official said. Pascoal D’Souza, who did not belong to any political party, tested positive for COVID-19 last month following which he was admitted to Margao-based ESI Hospital, a specially designated facility for COVID-19 patients. He succumbed to the viral infection on Sunday, the official said. D’Souza represented a ward in Mangor Hill area, which has been declared as a containment zone after more than 200 people there tested positive for the viral infection. Municipal Council elections in Goa are not fought on party lines. With the councillor’s death, the overall toll in the State has reached seven. Till Saturday, it reported 1,684 COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-councillor-succumbs-to-coronavirus/article31998191.ece
06 July 2020||Pune,||6,555 new cases take Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally beyond 2.06 lakh||The upsurge in new COVID-19 cases continued unabated in Maharashtra as the State recorded 6,555 new cases — its second-highest single-day surge till date — to take the total case tally to 2,06,619 on Sunday. As many as 151 new deaths pushed the total death toll to 8,822. Of the total case tally, though, only 86,040 are active ones, said State Health Department officials. With 3,658 patients being discharged today, the cumulative recoveries till date has gone up to 1,11,470. As many as 1,287 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking Mumbai’s total case tally to 84,524. However, the number of active cases has come down to 23,732 with 55,884 recoveries till date. With 69 new deaths being reported, the city’s death toll has risen to 4,899. Pune district reported as many as 31 deaths as its total death toll shot to 872, while 11 fatalities were reported from Aurangabad district in Marathwada region to take its total death count to 294. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that the State’s recovery rate stood at 54.08%. The State’s case fatality stands at 4.27%. After Mumbai, Pune district reported another massive spike of more than 800 new cases as its total case tally soared to 28,142 as per State Health department figures. Of these, 13,864 are active cases as per the State Health Department even though district administration authorities said only 10,467 cases were active. Uptick continues in MMR Along with Mumbai and Pune, the uptick in cases continued relentlessly in all civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Thane reported 600 new cases to take the district’s total tally to 18,252. With four fatalities reported from the district today, its total death toll has now climbed to 563. Kalyan-Dombivli reported another record high surge of 596 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,400. Eight new fatalities reported today took its total death toll to 146. Navi Mumbai added 201 fresh cases taking its total case tally to 9,135 with 215 deaths thus far. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded massive spikes as well, reporting 309 and 318 new cases respectively to take their total case tallies to 4,169 and 5,536. Raigad district, too, saw a sharp spike of 115 new cases as its total tally reached 2,682 while Panvel reported a rise of 140 cases to take its total case tally to 3,158. Spike in Nashik, Jalgaon Meanwhile, Jalgaon and Nashik districts — both virus hotbeds — saw big spikes of 210 and 283 cases respectively. Nashik’s total case tally stands at 5,216 of whom 2,056 were active while Jalgaon’s stood at 4,236 with 1,538 active cases. Despite the Nashik initially having a higher death count than Jalgaon, the latter has now overtaken it, with Jalgaon’s death toll currently at 278 as compared with 225 deaths in Nashik. “Till date, of a total 11,12,442 laboratory samples, 2,06,619 (18.57%) have been tested positive with nearly 32,000 samples across the State tested today,” Dr. Awate said. He said 6,04,463 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 46,062 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6555-new-cases-take-maharashtras-covid-19-tally-beyond-206-lakh/article31998190.ece
06 July 2020||Pune,||PCMC urges citizens to observe ‘janata curfew’||With cases continuing to soar, the Pimpri-Chinchwad civic administration has appealed to people to stay at home by observing a janata curfew on Sundays and Thursdays every week, even as Pune district reported more than 1,288 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally to 28,599. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner Shravan Hardikar made this appeal to citizens to check the spread of novel coronavirus in PCMC, which has reported a total of more than 4,700 cases, of whom more than 2,400 are active. As opposed to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which reported steady rise in cases throughout March, April, May and June, the PCMC had managed to check the spread till the end of May. “After unlock started on June 1, the cases have drastically soared in PCMC. Undoubtedly, relaxation on intra-city and inter-district travel, coupled with people letting their guard down by not taking precautions has aggravated the surge,” said a senior PCMC official. Pimpri-Chinchwad has seen at least 1,500 active cases since the end of May, with an average surge of more than 150 new cases a day in the past fortnight. As many as 82 people have died so far. Mayor tests positive In another development, eight members of the family of Pune Mayor, Murlidhar Mohol — a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader — have tested positive. Mr. Mohol had also tweeted on Saturday evening saying he had tested positive. On Saturday, Datta Sane, a prominent local leader from the NCP and a sitting corporator in the PCMC, had succumbed to the virus. Till date, at least two BJP MLAs and prominent leaders in the district – one in Pimpri-Chinchwad and one in Pune city – have tested positive along with a number of BJP and Nationalist Congress Party corporators. Surge in cases Pune has been reporting an average daily surge of 1,100 new cases for the last four days. The district saw a rise 1,288 new cases till Sunday evening. Pune district’s death toll has now reached 869 with 16 fatalities reported on Sunday, according to Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar. Of the total tally of 28,599, there are 11,019 active cases. Pune has reported 16,723 recoveries so far. Of the active cases, 617 patients are critical. Meanwhile, the death toll in Solapur district — the worst-affected after Pune — has climbed to 289 with two new fatalities reported on Sunday. The death toll in Pune division — which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts — has now reached 1,237. Dr. Mhaisekar said that Pune division’s tally has reached 33,857, of whom 12,291 are active cases while more than 20,000 people have been discharged till 3 p.m. on Sunday. Solapur reported 101 new cases to take its tally to 3,102 of whom 979 were active. Satara reported 53 new cases, taking the total to 1,304 with 465 active cases. The district’s death toll has currently risen to 55. Sangli reported 13 new cases to take its tally to 463 of whom 189 are active ones, while with 37 new cases, Kolhapur’s total tally stands at 941 of whom 191 are active. Both Sangli and Kolhapur have reported 12 fatalities each so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pcmc-urges-citizens-to-observe-janata-curfew/article31998187.ece
06 July 2020||Pune,||‘Donate smartphones, laptops to help poor students’||With online teaching the only way ahead for students in the backdrop of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Pune Zilla Parishad has appealed to citizens to donate old smartphones and used laptops to help poor students continue with e-classes during the lockdown. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, issued a directive recently mentioning that 50% of the students who had enrolled in ZP schools were from poor households in rural areas and did not have smartphones. For the moment, the ZP is planning e-classes for around 14,000 students enrolled in its 3,500-odd primary and secondary schools. At least 50% of these families do not have smartphones. The ZP is also planning to use the lockdown period for a structural overhaul of the education system in Pune’s rural area. “Of the 2.32 lakh households that we have surveyed in Pune’s rural region, around 60% have a smart phone. We need one lakh more phones in working order for more students to avail of the benefits of online education,” Mr. Prasad said. The other problem, he pointed out, was that 35 villages in Bhor, Velhe and Junnar tehsils lacked proper mobile connectivity, posing problems for schools sited in these places. “We are in the process of providing fibre optic internet to these backwater villages. So, the installation and accessibility of internet will not only resolve the problem of accessing online education imposed by the COVID-19 situation, but will bring about a permanent connectivity solution for these areas,” Mr. Prasad pointed out. To give a push to Pune ZP’s initiative, Nationalist Congress Party leader and Baramati MP Supriya Sule, made an earnest appeal for citizens to help out children from the social margins living in the rural areas. “The pandemic has forced schools to remain shut. The paucity of android phones, computers, tablets in rural areas has made it hard for students to begin e-classes. I appeal to citizens to help out these less privileged students and contribute to the ZP’s initiative,” Ms. Sule said. Mr. Prasad, who said that the ZP was looking to commence the first phase of online education from July 15, added that an app with video sharing content had been created along with a syllabus for a 30-week course. “The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will be creating a workbook for students. As far as the tutorial part is concerned, we are recording videos of teachers at the city-based Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (YASHADA) which has a virtual classroom studio,” Mr. Prasad said, adding that the online system, once streamlined, would also help students learn at their own pace and get their queries resolved in a more efficient manner than in a regular classroom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/donate-smartphones-laptops-to-help-poor-students/article31998185.ece
06 July 2020||Thane,||Tackling COVID-19 crisis is priority: Aaditya||Ignoring the Opposition’s criticism of the Maharashtra government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis, State Minister Aaditya Thackeray has said the priority of the government is to tackle the pandemic and other things are secondary. The State Environment and Tourism Minister was talking to reporters in Thane on Saturday evening while he was here to take stock of the COVID-19 situation and measures undertaken by civic bodies in the district to contain the virus. When asked about the Opposition’s claim that the government was unable to properly tackle the crisis, he said, “Let them do their work, we will keep on doing our work. Our priority at present is to deal with the COVID-19 situation and break the virus chain, other things are secondary.” The Shiv Sena MLA also launched an app developed by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) for online hospital bed allocation and ambulance booking. Addressing a COVID-19 review meeting at the TMC headquarters here, Mr. Thackeray stressed on the need for increased contact-tracing and maintenance of good facilities at the quarantine centres. He asked the civic officials to periodically inspect the centres and check various facilities, including the food. He also suggested for increasing the testing capacity. The review meeting was attended by Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde, Mayor Naresh Mhaske and other senior leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tackling-covid-19-crisis-is-priority-aaditya/article31998192.ece
06 July 2020||Washington/London,||Virus case surge sap July 4 celebrations in U.S.||A surge in COVID-19 cases sapped the fun out of July 4 celebrations in the United States as the pandemic also accelerated through neighbouring Mexico, the rest of Latin America and South Africa. Even Europe, which has largely been celebrating reopening, saw some setbacks, with authorities placing 200,000 people back under lockdown in Spain after a spike in infections that underlined how easily hard-won progress can be reversed. The United States remains by far the world’s hardest-hit country, logging a further 43,000 cases Saturday that brought its total number of infections to more than 2.8 million, with nearly 1,30,000 deaths. The spiralling case load cast a pall over traditional Independence Day celebrations, with beaches closed and the National Mall in Washington, usually crowded with spectators ready for fireworks, near deserted. Mexico’s toll crossed 30,000 on Saturday, propelling it past France to become the fifth-hardest-hit country in the world. Brazil’s numbers And Brazil, which has defiantly opened bars and restaurants in Rio de Janeiro, notched up nearly 40,000 new cases and more than a thousand deaths, keeping it in second place behind the U.S. in the bleak global rankings. Across the Atlantic, South Africa reported more than 10,000 new infections Saturday, its highest ever daily jump. Africa’s most economically developed country now has the greatest number of cases on the continent. American beaches that would normally be packed on July 4 are shut on both coasts as California and Florida suffer alarming surges in cases, while bars in States such as Texas and Michigan have had to close on what should be one of their busiest weekends of the year. New York’s public beaches reopened earlier in the week but locals in the city that was once the global epicentre of the crisis remain wary of a resurgence. America’s former colonial master, Britain, was decidedly more cheerful on Saturday as local pubs reopened for the first time since late March. Finance Minister Rishi Sunak urged Britons to “eat out to help out” — a message that did not appear to sit well with Health Secretary Matt Hancock. “I’m no killjoy,” said Hancock. “But the virus can still kill.” The lockdown announcement in Spain’s northeastern Catalonia region came after regional officials noted a “sharp rise” in infections around the town of Lerida about 150 km west of Barcelona. In Australia thousands of residents in high-rise apartments in Melbourne went into lockdown for at least five days as the country recorded its biggest daily increase of infections in months.“There are many, many vulnerable people who live in these towers,” Victoria state Premier Daniel Andrews said. Britain to fund study Also, Britain is putting £8.4 million pounds ($10.49 million) into a new study to examine the long-term effects of COVID-19 on patients, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. “As we continue our fight against this global pandemic, we are learning more and more about the impact the disease can have, not only on immediate health, but longer-term physical and mental health too,” Mr. Hancock said. The Department of Health said 10,000 people would take part in the study, which is being led by the University of Leicester and hospitals in the city. Lung and blood samples of the patients will be taken and they will also be assessed by advanced imaging, and the findings will be used to develop new forms of personalised treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-case-surge-sap-july-4-celebrations-in-us/article31997866.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Kanye West announces White House bid||In an American Independence Day surprise, hip-hop musician Kanye West announced that he would run for President of the United States this year. If the 43-year-old Mr. West were to launch a campaign, he would be running against Democrat Joe Biden and the incumbent, U.S. President Donald Trump, with whom he has a friendly relationship. His victory would also mean reality show celebrity Kim Kardashian, who is married to Mr. West, would become First Lady of the United States. “We must now realise the promise of America by trusting God, unifying our vision and building our future. I am running for President of the United States!” Mr. West wrote on Twitter. Tesla and SpaceX Founder Elon Musk backed Mr. West’s announcement, tweeting, “You have my full support!” Mr. West has made similar announcements before, as per an NBC report. He had announced at the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards that he would run for office in 2020. Last year again he said he would run for the presidency in 2024, possibly under the name, “Christian Genius Billionaire Kanye West.” Mr. West was the country’s highest-paid hip hop musician in 2019, making $150 million between June 2018 and June 2019 as per Forbes . The magazine had said Mr. West was unhappy with it not giving him billionaire status in 2019 — something it did in April this year after the star shared financial documents. Mr. West’s net worth was calculated to be $1.3 billion and mostly based on his Yeezy sneaker brand. A friend of Trump Mr. West supports Mr. Trump, referring to the President as “his brother” in an April 2018 tweet, in which he also said the two of them shared “dragon energy.” Within an hour of posting the tweet, he wrote, “ My wife just called me and she wanted me to make this clear to everyone. I don't agree with everything Trump does. I don’t agree 100% with anyone but myself.” Mr. West’s visit to the Oval Office in October 2018 to discuss criminal justice reform and African-American employment became a media spectacle. His remarks, delivered in a style similar to Mr. Trump’s own, touched on a wide range of topics including mental health, the 13th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution abolishing slavery and philosophical references to parallel universes. While there is no clear information on whether Mr. West has filed campaign papers, he would need to run on a third-party platform or as an independent if he is to follow through on his announcement. The deadline to run as an independent has not yet passed in many States, Reuters reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kanye-west-announces-white-house-bid/article31997859.ece
06 July 2020||Delray Beach,||COVID-19 claims life of man in famous 9/11 photo||A man photographed fleeing smoke and debris as the south tower of the World Trade Center crumbled just a block away on Sept. 11, 2001, has died from COVID-19, his family said.  The Palm Beach Post reported that Stephen Cooper, an electrical engineer from New York who lived part-time in the Delray Beach, Florida area, died on March 28 at Delray Medical Center due to COVID-19. He was 78. Part of museum The photo, captured by an Associated Press photographer, was published in newspapers and magazines around the world and is featured at the 9/11 Memorial Museum in New York. “He didn’t even know the photograph was taken,” said Janet Rashes, Cooper’s partner for 33 years. “All of a sudden, he’s looking in Time magazine one day and he sees himself and says, ‘Oh my God. That’s me.’ He was amazed. Couldn’t believe it.” Ms. Rashes said Cooper was delivering documents near the World Trade Center, unaware of exactly what had happened that morning, when he heard a police officer yell, “You have to run.” The photo shows Mr. Cooper, who was 60 at the time, with a manila envelope tucked under his left arm. He and several other men were in a desperate sprint as a wall of debris from the collapsing tower looms behind them. Mr. Cooper ducked to safety into a nearby subway station. “Every year on 9/11, he would go looking for the magazine and say, ‘Look, it’s here again,” said Jessica Rashes, Cooper’s 27-year-old daughter. “He would bring it to family barbecues, parties, anywhere he could show it off.” Susan Gould, a long-time friend, said Mr. Cooper was proud of the photo, purchasing multiple copies of Time and handing them out “like a calling card.” She said Mr. Cooper shrank a copy of the photo, laminated it, and kept it in his wallet. “Stephen was a character,” Ms. Gould said. Suzanne Plunkett, the Associated Press photographer who snapped the shot, wrote that she’s been in touch with two of the people in the photo, but Mr. Cooper was not among them. “It is a shame I was never aware of the identity of Mr. Cooper,” Ms. Plunkett wrote after his death in an email to The Palm Beach Post .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-claims-life-of-man-in-famous-911-photo/article31997868.ece
06 July 2020||Tokyo,||Toll in Japan floods rises to 18||About 34 people are either confirmed or feared dead — including 14 at a nursing home — after torrential rain in Japan triggered massive floods and mudslides, authorities said Sunday. Rescuers were searching for 14 others still missing after floods hit the Kumamoto region on the southwestern island of Kyushu, destroying houses, sweeping away vehicles and causing bridges to collapse. The regional government confirmed 18 people had died, while another 16 were declared in a state of “cardio-respiratory arrest” — a term often used in Japan before a doctor officially certifies death. Fourteen of those feared dead were at a nursing home inundated when local rivers broke their banks. Emergency services rescued 50 people from the facility.Authorities at emergency shelters made evacuees wash their hands, wear masks and maintain social distance to avoid the virus adding to the problems. At a Cabinet-level meeting in Tokyo on the disaster, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged financial support, while warning residents in Kumamoto to brace for more rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/toll-in-japan-floods-rises-to-18/article31997862.ece
06 July 2020||Baghdad,||2 rocket attacks target U.S. interests in Iraq||Two rocket attacks targeted American diplomatic and military installations overnight, Iraq’s security forces said on Sunday, a little over a week since unprecedented arrests prevented a similar incident. Iraqi troops in late June arrested more than a dozen fighters who were allegedly planning a new attack on Baghdad’s Green Zone. Iraqi government officials said the raid would serve as a “message” to deter future attacks, but early on Sunday, militants made another attempt. One rocket fired at the Green Zone landed near a home, wounding a child, according to the Iraqi military. “At the same time, our forces were able to thwart another attack and seize a Katyusha rocket and launcher that were targeting the Taji base north of Baghdad,” where U.S.-led coalition troops are based, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/2-rocket-attacks-target-us-interests-in-iraq/article31997860.ece
06 July 2020||London,||Drunk people can’t socially distance: British police||Britain’s police said on Sunday that revellers who packed London’s Soho district the night pubs finally reopened made it “crystal clear” that drunk people cannot socially distance. England’s hospitality sector sprung back to life after a three-month COVID-19 hiatus on what the media dubbed as either “Super Saturday” or “Independence Day”. Pubs and restaurants were allowed to start seating clients and barbers could get their clippers out for the first time since March. The head of Britain’s police federation said he ended up dealing with “naked men, happy drunks, angry drunks, fights and more angry drunks” while on shift. “What was crystal clear is that drunk people can’t/won’t socially distance,” John Apter told London radio. He said his own police department in the southern city of Southampton “managed to cope”. “I know other areas have had issues with officers being assaulted,” Mr. Apter said. A scan of police reports from Saturday night showed a similar level of mischief-making across England. Officers in the southwestern Devon and Cornwall region had logged up nearly 1,000 reports of “drink-related disorder and anti-social behaviour” by late Saturday. There were also reports of illegal raves in London and the northeast that resulted in mass arrests as well as disorder in the north Midlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/drunk-people-cant-socially-distance-british-police/article31997864.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||India must not cast anchor in ‘Enrica Lexie’||Italy has achieved its basic objective in the Enrica Lexie - St . Antony matter. All through this sorry saga, it wanted its two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, to stand trial for killing two Indian fishermen, Ajeesh Pink and Valentine Jelastine, not in India but in Italy. The marines were part of a security contingent on the Enrica Lexie , an Italian commercial oil tanker while Pink and Valentine were on the Indian fishing boat, St. Antony . The incident took place on February 15, 2012, in India’s Contiguous Zone, 20.5 nautical miles off the Kerala coast. Present and past The operative part of the Annex VII arbitral tribunal’s decision, made public last week, on July 2, 2020, gave Italy full satisfaction on this crucial point although in a split 3-2 verdict, and on shaky grounds. The tribunal, established by the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) under the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), held that the marines were “entitled to immunity in relation to the acts that they committed during the incident of 15 February, 2012, and that India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction over the Marines”. India had opposed Italy’s request for an arbitral tribunal but ITLOS ruled in Italy’s favour. ITLOS had asked both countries to “suspend all court proceedings” and “refrain from initiating new ones” that may “aggravate the dispute” or prevent the implementation of the Arbitral Tribunal’s decision. Accordingly, the judicial proceedings against the Italian marines in India were suspended. In May 2016, the Supreme Court of India allowed Girone who was on bail in India to return to Italy pending the decision of the Tribunal; Lattore was already there because of medical reasons. The small print Italy will now continue with the case it had registered against Lattore and Girone. It is highly unlikely though that any Italian court will convict Lattore and Girone for Pink and Valentine’s unjustified killing. The reported humanitarian assistance that the Italian authorities gave their families can never be taken as justice for the lives snuffed out by two trigger-happy members of the Italian armed forces who, without any justification, considered the fishing boat to be a pirate skiff. Only the operative portion of the tribunal’s award is available till now. The detailed award is being scrutinised by India and Italy for redactions of those portions either country feels are confidential, and therefore cannot be publicly disclosed. Besides, the tribunal’s hearing, except for the opening statements of the two countries’ agents, was held confidentially. It is unlikely then that Italy would allow facts prejudicial to its version to be made open. The legal points on the jurisdiction of the two countries to try the marines and the immunity issue should become available hopefully somewhat soon. They would enable a full assessment to be made of the reasoning adopted by the majority to reach its conclusions on these important issues. The Ministry of External Affairs statement on the award notes “The Tribunal observed that India and Italy had concurrent jurisdiction over the incident and a valid legal basis to institute criminal proceedings against the marines.” Prima facie then the tribunal should have allowed the case to continue in India for the victims were Indians and the Enrica Lexie came voluntarily to India and after investigations a case was lodged against Lattore and Girone. It is noteworthy that the tribunal did not accept Italy’s charge that India brought the Italian oil tanker by a ruse to Kochi. Clearly, however, the tribunal majority found a way to ensure that the case should continue in Italy by agreeing with the Italian plea that the marines had immunity for they were state officials. A dangerous precedent India’s stand that UNCLOS is not concerned with issues relating to immunity was strong. Immunity of state officials has to be governed by specific multilateral or bilateral treaties or agreements. It should not be tangentially brought in to settle issues of jurisdiction. Besides, even if Italian marines are considered as state officials, they were deployed on an Italian commercial vessel. Italy did so unilaterally without the cover of any multilateral or bilateral arrangement. There is no convention that such persons as the marines in such cases are immune from local criminal jurisdiction; only heads of states, heads of governments and foreign ministers customarily enjoy immunity abroad apart from accredited diplomats who are covered by the Vienna Convention. Thus, the tribunal’s decision on the marines’ immunity sets a dangerous precedent. Countries may now be tempted to enact specific laws to give immunity to their military and para-military personnel and others by declaring them state officials and thereafter place them on different kinds of commercial craft and use them for adventurous purposes. This can lead to an increase in tensions generally and especially between inimical states, and more so if there are problems relating to fishermen between contiguous states. New Delhi must be focused India can take satisfaction that the tribunal found that by firing on the St. Antony , Italy was guilty of “violating India’s freedom and right of navigation”. Consequently, it held that “India is entitled to payment of compensation in connection with loss of life, physical harm, material damage to property and moral harm” perpetrated by Italy. Now it is incumbent on the government to ensure that Italy is made to pay fully for the loss of life and the suffering it has caused in this matter. Any lapse on this count will be inexcusable. Considerations of good relations with Italy or with the European Union (EU) which had stood beside Italy throughout this matter should not be allowed to influence these specific negotiations. The government should also ensure that it closely monitors the case proceedings in the Italian court against Lattore and Girone. This is notwithstanding, as mentioned earlier, that Italy would be inclined to only go through the motions of a fair trial. The government should instruct the Embassy in Rome that a diplomat should always be present during court proceedings. It should not accept Italy’s pleas that this would not be possible when confidential information is being presented before the court. If the Italians had gone to the extreme in supporting the marines, India must not show any laxity in securing justice for Pink and Valentine even in an Italian court. For executive and judiciary This is also a time for the executive and judicial branches of the Indian state to introspect on how they handled the whole affair politically, diplomatically and legally. A number of questions arise. Some of these are: Was it prudent to appoint the National Investigation Agency to handle the case after the Supreme Court had ordered for a special court to be set up to try the marines? Should virtually terrorism charges have been levelled against the marines only to be dropped later? Should the Supreme Court not have decided the jurisdiction and immunity issues ab initio instead of leaving them open? Should not have ways been found to counter Italy causing deliberate delays to thwart the trial from commencing? This is especially important, for it used these delays to build sympathy for the marines in the EU. As a good international citizen, India has accepted the tribunal’s award. Now it must ensure that Italy fully honours it. The matter remains open. Vivek Katju is a former diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-must-not-cast-anchor-in-enrica-lexie/article31997844.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The search for unity in a moment of crisis||It is often believed that a crisis brings out the best in Indians. We have witnessed people selflessly coming to the aid of the affected during natural calamities. Unfortunately, this wasn’t the case when the pandemic hit India. First, we failed in dealing adequately with the tremendous distress caused to migrant labourers. Second, we failed to make the fight against COVID-19 a common endeavour, irrespective of caste or community. Instead, sadly, the discourse was communalised, with one community being targeted even though its members were as much victims of the pandemic as were others. Impact of the lockdown The government proved inept in not anticipating the adverse impact of the lockdown on millions of migrant labourers, who were overnight deprived of their means of livelihood. It failed to foresee, and therefore mitigate, the adverse consequences of its sudden decision. While extensions of the lockdown were rightly preceded by consultations with the State governments, keeping the initiation of the lockdown a secret from all the stakeholders defied logic. In addition to the distress, the fact that this exodus of migrants to their homes would cause the infection to spread to the rural hinterland was not contemplated. Much later, after untold sufferings had been inflicted on the migrants and the Supreme Court had taken cognisance of the problem, the Centre and the States woke up to facilitate the return journeys of the migrants. This too was poorly managed. In hindsight, it is evident that the strategies employed to control the spread of the disease have achieved little success — India today has the third-highest number of COVID-19 cases. As industrialist Rajiv Bajaj wryly quipped, the wrong curve — the GDP curve instead of the pandemic one — has been flattened. The issue of spread of infection impacted communal harmony. The Tablighi Jamaat was mercilessly flogged, especially by certain people and sections of the electronic media, in order to profile Muslims adversely. The fact that Tablighi Jamaat is an orthodox sect of Muslims and does not represent the community was ignored. So was the fact that the venue of the March congregation was about 50 metres from the Nizamuddin police station. Further, why no action has still been taken against the head of the Jamaat remains a mystery. It is not implausible that the focus on the Jamaat was engineered to shift the focus away from the plight of the migrant labourers, who were suffering and even dying. Certain TV channels were so irresponsible that they went to the extent of presenting the murder of two sadhus in Maharashtra as a communal incident even though this wasn’t the case. Unfortunately, even prior to the lockdown, with an ongoing agitation, the atmosphere was fraught with tension. Muslims were aggrieved by the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, that discriminated against Muslim refugees with regard to grant of citizenship, as well as by the plan to prepare a National Register of Citizens (NRC), which was soon followed by the announcement to prepare the National Population Register (NPR). While the protests against the CAA, NRC and NPR were snowballing, the pandemic hit us and was soon followed by the lockdown. The protests had tested both the people’s and the administration’s patience, particularly because of the inconvenience caused by blocked roads. Even some of those who believed that the CAA, NRC and NPR were iniquitous were beginning to lose patience. The failure to initiate dialogue with the protesters and the heavy-handedness of the police could well have been a tipping point. If the lockdown had not been imposed, protests on the scale in the U.S. could have happened in India. While the fight against the pandemic was an opportunity to unite us, sadly, the Tablighi Jamaat issue was used to profile Muslims. This became so overt that it attracted international opprobrium with some West Asian countries and Canada taking action against overseas Indians engaging in Islamophobia. In a TV interview, historian Yuval Noah Harari said it was dangerous to pin the blame for the spread of the virus on Muslim minorities and stressed the need to make the fight against the pandemic a united endeavour. India’s brand of secularism Profiling any community is alien to India’s secular tradition. The long history of heterodoxy in India has contributed to democracy and the brand of secularism and tolerance that is unique to India. Through centuries people have come to India and made it their home. To quote Firaq: “ Sar zamiin-e Hind par Aqwaam-e Aalam ke Firaq qaafile baste gaye, Hindostan banta gayaa (Caravans from all over the world settled in this land and shaped India)”. The emergence of Vedic religion (Hinduism) dates back to second millennium BCE. Buddhism and Jainism emerged in sixth century BCE. Jews came after the fall of Jerusalem. Early Christians came and settled in the south. They were followed by Parsis and Baha’is, persecuted in their homelands. Muslim Arab traders came and settled soon after the rise of Islam. Then came Muslim conquerors. Emperors like Ashoka and Akbar were exemplars in promoting religious harmony. Inter-religious tolerance, embedded in our life and culture, is reflected throughout our history in the writings of Bulleh Shah, Nanak, Kabir, Rahim, Amir Khusrau, Ravi Das and others. Sufi dargahs are visited by lakhs of non-Muslims. Secularism is based on the pluralist and syncretic character of the society with Sarva Dharma Sambhava being the guiding principle. That is the backdrop in which independent India’s chosen destiny was to be a non-theocratic state. Today, we stand at the crossroads with the fundamental values of the Constitution under challenge. Our best universities such as Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jadavpur University and Aligarh Muslim University are pilloried, and their student leaders harassed. Instances of the police being partisan are seen, for instance, in the slanted nature of the investigations pertaining to the riots in north-east Delhi. The scourge of COVID-19 is haunting us, the economy is in free fall, our borders are under siege. India has a glorious history of complete unity during crises. If ever there was a time to stand together and be counted as one, this is it. To ensure this, the country must provide even-handed and mature treatment to Dalits, Muslims, Christians and all minorities. This is not appeasement but an accepted form of progressive thought, so that all citizens get an opportunity to progress as equal partners. This is never easy in societies where the size of the cake is not adequate. It takes a large heart and a lot of education for people to appreciate this. Najeeb Jung is a former Vice Chancellor of the Jamia Millia Islamia and former Lt. Governor of Delhi and Prateep K. Lahiri is a former Revenue Secretary to the Government of India and former Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank, Manila||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-search-for-unity-in-a-moment-of-crisis/article31997857.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-enfranchise the forgotten voter||In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has made it possible for senior citizens above the age of 65 to vote by postal ballot, given that they are at greater risk from exposure to the novel coronavirus. Hitherto, this option was available only to disabled citizens and those above 80 years. However, postal ballots may not minimise the risk of infection and it may be better instead to provide separate voting booths for senior citizens. Migrants on the margins Well-thought-out initiatives that facilitate voting and remove obstacles to voters exercising their franchise must be welcomed. We would urge that the same empowering approach be extended to another group which faces enormous difficulties in exercising its franchise: migrant workers. The novel coronavirus cataclysm and the subsequent national lockdown brought to centre stage the magnitude of internal migration and hardships that migrant workers endure in their quest for livelihoods. The stark indignity that many of them endured on their long march home suggests that they are perceived as being politically powerless. Internal migrant workers constitute about 13.9 crore as in the Economic Survey of 2017, that is nearly a third of India’s labour force. They travel across India in search of an economic livelihood, in the construction sector, as domestic work, in brick kilns, mines, transportation, security, agriculture, etc. Many never intend to settle down and wish to return to their native villages and towns once their work is completed or the working season ends. Often they toil in exploitative low-wage jobs, lacking identity and proper living conditions, without access to welfare and unable to exercise their voting rights. Migrant workers become quasi-disenfranchised, forgotten voters because they cannot afford to return home on election day to choose their representatives. The callous attitude toward the plight of migrants exhibited by some State governments leads to the conclusion that this group does not constitute a vote bank worthy of attention. Internal migrant workers do not enrol as voters in their place of employment since they find proof of residence hard to provide. Many are seasonal migrants who would rather vote in their villages if they could afford to return home. Since they do not have a vote where they work, their concerns are easy to ignore in their host State. Sometimes, they are targeted for allegedly taking jobs away from the local population. Task before the ECI Ensuring that every Indian who is eligible to vote can do so must be a central mission for the ECI. It is a matter of pride that India currently has over 91.05 crore registered voters and in the 2019 general election, a record 67.4%, i.e., 61.36 crore voters, cast their vote. The ECI would do well to focus attention on the one-third, a substantial 29.68 crore, who did not cast their vote. National Election Study surveys have shown that about 10% of registered voters refrain from voting due to a lack of interest in politics. That leaves approximately 20 crore voters who want to vote but are unable to do so. Of these there are about three crore Non Resident Indians (NRIs). Only about one lakh NRIs have registered to vote, presumably because voting requires their physical presence in India. Of them, about 25,000 voted in the 2019 elections. To enable NRIs to exercise their franchise, the government brought in legislation in the previous Lok Sabha to enable voting through authorised proxies. While the legislation lapsed, it is interesting to contrast the concern for NRIs with the lack thereof for poor migrant workers. Yes, there is a model Does our system enable any form of voter portability that can serve as a model for re-enfranchising migrant workers? Yes. Service voters (government employees) posted away from home can vote through the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS). Classified service voters (e.g., military personnel) can do so through their proxies. The ECI has said that it is testing an Aadhaar-linked voter-ID based solution to enable electors to cast their votes digitally from anywhere in the country. It will be some time in the future before this becomes a functional reality. While developing this solution, we must ensure that the linkage with Aadhaar does not result in the exclusion of eligible individuals. To facilitate voting by migrant workers, the ECI could undertake substantial outreach measures using the network of District Collectorates. Migrants should be able to physically vote in their city of work based on the address on their existing voter IDs and duration of their temporary stay. In an age where banking transactions have gone online seamlessly, it is technologically feasible to record and transfer votes to their respective constituencies without compromising on the credibility of the election process. The COVID-19 crisis mobilised governments and non-governmental organisations to set up registers and portals to reach out to migrant workers. A ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ is being ushered in to enable migrant workers and their family members to access Public Distribution System benefits from any fair price shop in the country. Similarly, voting must be viewed not just as a civic duty but as a civic right. We must demonstrate the political will to usher in ‘One Nation One Voter ID,’ to ensure native ballot portability and empower the forgotten migrant voter. Once migrant workers get to exercise their franchise, we expect that we will see a change in how they are treated. A quote attributed to Thomas Jefferson goes: “We... do not have government by the majority. We have government by the majority who participate.” Ensuring that every Indian voter can participate in elections is imperative to ensure a democratically inclusive India. C.R. Kesavan is a former member of the Prasar Bharati Board. M.V. Rajeev Gowda is a former Member of Parliament and Chairman of the Congress party’s Research Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-enfranchise-the-forgotten-voter/article31997848.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-imagining journalism||Everyone acknowledges that the news industry is in deep crisis. While the prognosis varies and the prescriptions for revival differ, everyone seems to believe that in order to be reinvented, journalism has to be re-imagined. I follow three academic centres that track the news industry closely: the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism at the University of Oxford, Columbia Journalism Review (CJR) published by the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, and the Nieman Journalism Lab at Harvard University. All of them are tracking the multiple factors that have contributed to the crisis, including digital disruptions, the shrinking advertising market, the trust deficit and the debunking of journalism by the political leadership. The crisis has also touched some public broadcasting organisations which have a dedicated revenue stream. For instance, BBC is to make 450 staff working on its regional programmes in England redundant as part of cost-cutting measures which will see many well-known local television and radio presenters lose their jobs.  A task requiring collective thought CJR has been organising a series of discussions titled “The Search for Solutions” under its “The Journalism Crisis Project Webinar Series”. One of the suggestions that came from the fourth webinar was that “saving” the industry was the wrong model. Heather Chaplin, Founding director, Journalism + Design at The New School, New York, said the industry’s best hope is to re-imagine the free press for the 21st century. She said: “The minute that you realise, wait, my job isn’t to try to save the thing; my job is to reinvent something new — the possibility space expands exponentially… What does the free press that we want look like, and what conditions need to be in place for it to happen?” I have been interacting with readers for 400 weeks trying to be an interlocutor between them and the newspaper. What is abundantly clear is that journalism is a public good and should survive for the sake of democracy. As CJR said, “The public needs journalism, and journalists need to ask where the current model is failing, and how it can be rebuilt.” The task of re-imagining journalism cannot be left to journalists and media managers alone. It requires the collective thinking of all stakeholders. Readers, as the raison d’etre of journalism, are the substantial stakeholders and their inputs are essential in reworking the contours of journalism for the 21st century. Elements of legacy journalism What are the essential elements of legacy journalism we need to retain and what are the elements that can be altered or even rejected? Bill Kovach and Tom Rosenstiel spelt out 10 elements common to good journalism. They are: 1) Journalism’s first obligation is to the truth; 2) Its first loyalty is to citizens; 3) Its essence is a discipline of verification; 4) Its practitioners must maintain an independence from those they cover; 5) It must serve as an independent monitor of power; 6) It must provide a forum for public criticism and compromise; 7) It must strive to keep the significant interesting and relevant; 8) It must keep the news comprehensive and proportional, 9) Its practitioners must be allowed to exercise their personal conscience; and 10) Citizens, too, have rights and responsibilities when it comes to the news. The business model and revenue streams are inextricably linked with these core elements and the stakeholders have to come up with a compelling reason for abandoning any one of these elements. An important distinction These key elements also paved way for the crucial distinction in a broadsheet daily like The Hindu : the difference between news and views. In the U.S., the current debate is about the idea of objectivity in journalism. Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter Wesley Lowery recently wrote an interesting piece in The New York Times on the question of objectivity. According to him what most editors call objective journalism “is constructed atop a pyramid of subjective decision-making” and has been defined “almost exclusively by white reporters and their mostly white bosses.” Over the next few weeks, I solicit the opinions of our readers on how to re-imagine journalism by looking beyond the obvious pitfalls such as the impact of post-truth narratives that flow from the top and the economic strain caused by the pandemic. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-imagining-journalism/article31997852.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||How to counter China||The June 15 clash between India and China in the Galwan Valley offers a glimpse of what may lie ahead for India. Despite New Delhi’s nuanced diplomacy, China’s authoritarian turn at home and assertive behaviour abroad underscore a growing problem. India’s China challenge couldn’t come at a worse time. While working to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, India finds itself struggling to navigate an economic emergency. Success — and keeping Beijing at bay — will hinge upon completing the transformation begun in 1991. China’s economic opening-up has left India behind, contributing to a military imbalance. In 1987, both countries’ nominal GDP were almost equal. China’s economy was nearly five times larger than India’s in 2019. Not coincidentally, from rough parity in 1989, China’s military spending last year more than tripled India’s. India’s pronounced economic slump, predating the epidemic, won’t help right this equation. The government’s near-term attention may be consumed by tending to the swelling ranks of the poor. Limited fiscal and monetary tools, and dried-up private financing, constrain India’s options. Heightened vigilance along the LAC demands summoning scarce resources. Defence budgets were already tightening. If India cannot close the economic gap and build military muscle, Beijing may feel emboldened to probe the subcontinent’s land and maritime periphery. Slowdown in reforms The root causes of India’s economic woes can be traced to a slowdown in reforms. In 1991, India enacted changes allowing markets to set commodity prices but did not similarly liberalise land, labour and capital. Nearly 30 years after historic reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the opportunity to launch big, structural change, to eventually resume growth above 8% and keep China at arm’s length. This spring, the government has delivered mixed messages about a revitalised reform agenda. Officials have discussed land and labour changes, while reaffirming an interest in integrating India into global value chains. Several States have temporarily lifted labour restrictions, eliciting concerns about going too far, while others intend to make land acquisition easier. But Delhi’s drumbeat of self-reliance could inhibit growth and constrain investment in a more vigorous foreign and defence policy. To be clear, greater self-sufficiency can be salutary. Home-grown manufacturing of critical medicinal ingredients or digital safeguards on citizens’ personal data would reduce vulnerabilities. Conversely, imposing protective barriers to build-up local defence industry would hamper acquisitions helping balance Beijing. In the coming years, India’s most important contest with China will likely unfold in C-suites and boardrooms. Right now, China faces intense scrutiny resulting from the pandemic, geopolitical competition, trade wars, and economic coercion. Businesses are revisiting whether or not to diversify suddenly exposed international value chains. India’s rivals are staking their claim on regulatory predictability, stable tax policies, and fewer trade obstacles. While India remains outside the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, competitors are wooing companies seeking lower trade barriers. Asian countries are pushing ahead: Vietnam just inked a trade deal with the European Union that threatens to slice into India’s exports. India urgently needs increased exports and investments to provide more well-paying jobs, technology, and know-how. Businesses purchase cost-efficient inputs overseas for use in higher value, manufactured exports. Before committing to long-term, multi-billion investments, companies often want to test India’s market through international sales. Liberalisation remains the tried-and-true path to competitiveness. If India can unite its people and rapidly strengthen capabilities, it will likely discover that China is kept more honest. The choices that India makes to recapture consistent, high growth will determine its future. Bold reforms offer the best option to manage Beijing and achieve greater independence on the world stage. Atman M. Trivedi worked in the U.S. Commerce and State Departments and U.S. Senate on India matters. He is a managing director at Hills & Company, International Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-to-counter-china/article31997853.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Three messages||With his visit to Nimu near Leh, which houses the XIV Corps headquarters including the base hospital, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accomplished several objectives. He visited soldiers injured during the Galwan clash of June 15, addressed troops involved in the stand-off with China, and was briefed directly by senior officers involved in operational preparedness who are also conducting military talks with China’s People’s Liberation Army. In his speech to soldiers at Nimu, he addressed different audiences as well, with the biggest message for the Chinese leadership, where he said that the age of expansionism is over. Calling this the “era of evolution” or development ( Vikasvaad ), Mr. Modi said that the “era of colonial expansion” ( Vistaarvaad ) is over. He said that in the past, expansionist forces have done great harm to humanity, and had been “erased or forced to relent”. The message to Beijing was this: it must not engage in territorial aggression across its boundaries with countries from Central Asia to the South China Sea, including India, and it must also recall its own anger against imperialism, that so many in the PRC’s leadership have decried. Despite the fact that he did not once name China, the message appeared to have hit home, with the Chinese Embassy in Delhi issuing a denial that it had made any expansionist moves. The Prime Minister also addressed other countries that are viewing the growing seriousness of the two-month long stand-off with concern, as he spoke about India’s tradition of peace with bravery, indicating that diplomatic options would be exhausted before any action. To his domestic audience, the address signified the government’s determination to face the challenge at the Line of Actual Control and to focus on national priorities of infrastructure and economic development. Finally, he addressed the soldiers themselves, as he spoke of the valour of the men who have been engaged in the clashes along the LAC, including the Galwan confrontation in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. In all three aspects of the address, the speech must be welcomed, and its unspoken messages should also be studied closely. While the Prime Minister’s decision to visit troops near the LAC was well-timed and apt, it also raised the temperature of the India-China engagement, and indicates that military talks for disengagement and the dispersal of the massive mobilisation of troops on both sides, have not made much progress. The contrast in his tone from just two weeks ago, when he reassured the nation that “neither has anyone transgressed, nor is anyone inside Indian territory”, indicates that the situation is far more serious than was previously understood. It is to be hoped that the government, which has thus far not given the nation the full picture on what has happened, and what the nation needs to prepare for, will do so now, further clarifying the Prime Minister’s core message at Leh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/three-messages/article31997839.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Surely, even if slowly||Yet again, the pandemic has revealed cracks in the conduct of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A letter by the agency’s head, Dr. Balram Bhargava, to doctors last week, preparing to test a vaccine for human trials, appeared to be coercing them into getting a vaccine ready by August 15. After public uproar the agency clarified that its intent was to infuse a sense of urgency given the pandemic and that there were no plans to deviate from the rulebook on vaccine development. However, there was no rationale extended for why the date August 15 cropped up. Given the crisis at hand, regulatory agencies the world over have relaxed rules on drug testing and vaccine trials. While scientific rigour cannot be compromised, there is a move, globally, to allow more leeway to formulations that show some promise, and allow them into the market under medical guidance. This is why drugs such as remdesivir and favipiravir — despite limited evidence of success — have made it to the bedside of patients. Vaccines are an entirely different game. The basic philosophy of all vaccines involves introducing fragments — in some cases the whole virus, albeit in a weakened form — into healthy volunteers. Therefore, the first checkpoint is that the vaccine candidate should not sicken a healthy person. The second hurdle is that a vaccine must stimulate the immune system just enough to get it to produce protective antibodies. In other words, it must be efficacious and finally, only if all were to go well, it must be tested in several thousand people in real world conditions. And they must be shown, over time, to be better protected than those who were unvaccinated. Each one of these steps cannot in principle be rushed, and each is necessary to ensure that the vaccine can be released for public use. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the makers of ‘Covaxin’, has experience and credibility in vaccine manufacture. ‘Covaxin’ is developed from a strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated at NIV. However, this only makes it one of hundreds of potential vaccines being tested and the consensus of experts is that no vaccine can be readied for use until next year. This is now largely understood by most and hence the behavioural changes on social distancing and an insistence on wearing masks in public. It is therefore perplexing why the ICMR, with its panoply of eminences, would want to cut corners with a basic premise of research: that science does not progress in a hurry. The pandemic has brought into focus the unavoidable role of uncertainty. New aspects of the disease are being brought to light, sometimes every day. The best strategy, in the midst of such flux, is to maintain absolute transparency, and proceed surely, even if slowly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/surely-even-if-slowly/article31997840.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Dyer Appreciation Fund (From an editorial)||When a few days back a writer in Capital blurted out that, if the Government dishonoured General Dyer, the European community in India should raise a fund to compensate him, we were not disposed to think much of it, as the idea was too patently monstrous to gain adherents. In our simplicity we thought even the Anglo Indian would recognise a limit to his defence of crime and injustice on the mere impulsion of kinship with the culprit. We now find that Anglo Indians, apparently not content with all the loud propaganda of their organs in India and their friends in England, have started a “Dyer Appreciation Fund” with the object of presenting General Dyer with a sword of honour and a substantial purse. These Britishers would almost seem to teach the world that it is worthwhile being a butcher of men. The most amazing part of the new move is that the promoters of the Fund expect Indians to subscribe profusely for it. Was ever irony more sharp and bitter than in this appeal for Indian coin to honour a man that treated Indian lives worse than chaff? India, however, has made up her mind and knows what value to place on these croakings. If the insolence of jingoism has no limit, it may have to learn sooner or later, that there is a limit to India’s patience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dyer-appreciation-fund-from-an-editorial/article31997849.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Differences on early poll||The big debate is still continuing behind the scenes in circles close to the Prime Minister on the advantages and disadvantages of an earlier general election—on the evident assumption that the compulsive logic of the Congress split and the follow-up politics of polarisation will sooner or later compel Mrs. Gandhi to go to the polls before 1972. Relying rather heavily on the recent by-election pointers, the protagonists of a mid-term poll in the Prime Minister’s camp are maintaining that by the law of averages the Ruling Congress should be able to improve its position in Parliament, if Mrs. Gandhi can relate the policies of her Government more closely to the timing and tactics of a general election. But the antagonists of such a gamble are cautioning against this facile assumption that the outcome of a crucial general election can be decisively influenced by conscious timing or deliberate calculation, let alone by captivating propaganda or slick political manoeuvre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/differences-on-early-poll/article31997850.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Take stock before trading||The Yes Bank debacle and the closure of six debt funds in Franklin India may have spooked debt investors. But equity investors remain unstoppable. CDSL data suggested 12 lakh new equity investor accounts were opened in March and April 2020, up 33% from the previous two months. BSE data showed a significant spurt in the client (individual investor) category turnover compared with a year ago. New-age online platforms, too, spoke of robust growth in new brokerage account additions with as much as 65% of them being first-time investors. The point made by many brokerages — attractive valuations and quality stocks available at good prices — are attracting investors. But, could it be possible for first-time equity investors to discover ‘attractive valuation’ and ‘quality stocks’ within two months of their entry into equities? Strange! I gathered more on social media. Video and learning apps and webinars on how to trade were selling (yes, even paid ones) like hot cakes. Okay, lockdown has forced people to channelise their energy into learning. And, needless to say, it is instant gratification (through trading) that most want. And then, you hear this: the shocking news of a 20-year-old trader who thought he lost $7,30,000 in trading. Now, I am not here to tell you that investing is all about the long term and dismiss trading. In reality, trading in the market is an important activity that is fundamental for price discovery of stocks. However, stock trading is one of the hardest things you can do and therefore, the most difficult to make money from. So, it is best left to professionals who have honed their practice over years of experience. What is happening now is probably this — a combination of easy-to-use, free/low-cost trading platforms, plenty of time at home during this lockdown and also, increasing insecurity about keeping a job and the need to generate other sources of income, could be driving many young Indians towards the seemingly lucrative business of trading. If you are one among them, and thought trading was an easy way to make money, you will do well to know the following. Not a part-time affair Successful traders seldom do trading part time. These are folks who have left their jobs, after several years of also investing, and pursued trading as a serious activity. Trading is not a hobby because you can lose real money. It takes several years before one can master techniques in stock trading. First comes the knowledge and then comes the experience. It is good to learn and try techniques with small exposures but you are in for a risk when you try these with leveraged bets. When I started with equities close to two decades ago, I knew amateur traders who would stick to the cash market, while the more professional traders would use leverage. Leverage, or margin trading, is the act of taking stock market positions worth more than the money you possess. That means you borrow money for the difference. When such experts use leverage, they do so when the path to profit is very clear to them. They tend to diligently stick to their plan, decide on an optimal position size to minimise risk, assess risk-reward and thereby, the potential loss and make sure their capital is not overexposed. They make sure their losses in a trade are restricted to 1-2% of capital. Unfortunately, not only the right strategy but also the check of emotions, comes only with time. And that will come provided you are strong enough to stay without getting hurt. Ease of transacting, a trap With a spate of zero-cost platforms, and easy access to margin, leveraged trades have become easier to access and therefore end up on top of a young trader’s list of feats to be achieved. New investors seldom understand that there is no such thing as ‘free’, and often do not factor in some implicit costs (such as an ask-bid spread). As online platforms also make available plenty of charts, many trade daily, using daily charts. Top traders seldom do that. They like to see how the story of a stock unfolds; they see the bigger picture. A trader may trade less and make more money looking at slightly longer period charts. Online brokerage platforms also make available plenty of learning material for you. They equip you so that you make money for them. Watching a few videos and hearing free advice definitely doesn’t amount to learning trading. If you ask yourself what technique you really follow for each trade and don’t have a proper answer, you are not a trader. Money tucked away Professional traders have a comfortable kitty they can fall back upon. They would have put away enough money for their life’s goals and would already have invested for the long-term and even have some money tucked away in fixed deposits. Some professional traders even set aside an emergency fund as high as one-year’s living costs. For those who wish to make a living as an equity trader, having a significant chunk as capital is necessary. Otherwise, you cannot think of building wealth. Not having a substantial sum as capital brings in other risks. For example, someone trying to get Rs. 50,000 a month from a capital of Rs. 5 lakh would likely push herself to adopt high-risk strategies that can wipe out capital and cause losses. If you think you are still cut out for it, learn slowly and steadily; first master the art of losing less. As the Wild West song goes “you’ve got to know when to hold ‘em, know when to fold ‘em,”  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/take-stock-before-trading/article31997830.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Can you be denied health insurance?||You may have heard that 'insurance is sold, not bought.’ This reluctance to buy insurance has a notable exception. Health insurance is much desired and available from general and health inssurers. Life insurers can issue benefit, not indemnity, policies covering health. Yet, just because you want a health insurance policy, it does not mean you will get it. Renewal, too, can be denied. No insurer is obliged to issue you a health insurance policy. The premium, terms and conditions are also at his discretion. While the underwriting decision on a new policy lies with the insurance company, here is what the regulations say. Health insurance policies should allow age at entry of at least 65 years. Exceptions include maternity or certain group policies such as student policies. Also excluded are overseas hospitalisation and personal accident policies and pilot products. (A pilot product, a concept that has come up in the last few years, is a close-ended new insurance policy to explore how to cover risks not covered until now or are exclusions in existing products.) On age grounds, your insurer cannot deny you a renewal or because you made a claim in the previous policy years. In other words, once you have a policy, you are entitled to life-long renewal in the normal course. Keep policy valid It’s your responsibility to keep your policy valid through timely renewal. Regulations specify that insurers should condone a gap in renewal of up to 30 days and keep benefits such as waiting period for pre-existing conditions intact. This is a new measure that gives the insured considerable leeway as no gap in coverage was entertained earlier. But remember, any claims that arise during the uncovered period will not be tenable. If the policy (including a pilot) is withdrawn, at the time of renewal, the insurer has to port you to an alternative available policy subject to portability conditions. Renewal will not be done in the case of benefit policies where a claim is paid and the policy terminates. Details of when and how the policy will terminate should be explicitly stated in the policy document upfront. Your renewal premium cannot be arbitrarily loaded because of your claims history but only on group experience basis and that too, disclosed upfront. However, if you are eligible for a cumulative bonus for a claim-free insurance period, that can be cut when there is a claim. Bonus details should be stated explicitly in the prospectus and the policy document and, if there is a claim, the bonus should be reduced at the same rate at which it has accrued. This also applies to the premium to be charged for the policy. On renewal, your insurer should not require you to go through a fresh medical examination provided there is no increase in your sum assured. This provision safeguards you against denial of renewal or loading of premium or imposition of any new terms or exclusions. Renewal can be denied on the basis of fraud, misrepresentation moral hazard or misrepresentation by the insured. Moral hazard has been a serious matter in the past. This hampered the profitable growth of health insurance in India because when such practices are rampant, the majority suffers due to the acts of a few.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/can-you-be-denied-health-insurance/article31997824.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Gold set to gain more sheen||After being range bound in the first half, precious metals recovered in the second half of June. Comex gold price surged to an eight-year high on June 30, on growing concerns relating to the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy. Comex gold gained 2.8% to settle at $1,800.5 an ounce by end June. The price action was relatively muted with the white metal gaining 0.23% to settle at $18.5 an ounce. In the domestic market, gold futures at MCX gained 3.5% in June to settle at Rs. 48,762 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures, however, closed 0.8% lower at Rs. 50,364 per kg in June. Comex gold ruled firm and achieved the target of $1,775-$1,785 mentioned in the previous post. The breakout past the key resistance at $1,775-$1,785 is a sign of strength. The short-term outlook is positive and price is likely to head towards the next target of $1,835-$1,840. The uptrend would gather momentum on a close above $1,810. The positive outlook would be under threat if the price closes below the support level at $1,710. Comex silver remained largely range bound in June. A breakout past the short-term resistance in the $18.9-$19.1 range is required to reinstate momentum to the uptrend. A breakout past $19.2 would not only lend such momentum but would also help the price reach the next target of $19.9-$20. The trend in Comex silver would turn negative below $17. A breakout above $19.2 or a fall below $17 would set the tone for the next big move. MCX gold futures ruled firm in June and moved past the target zone of Rs. 49,100-Rs. 49,800 mentioned last month. The short-term outlook remains positive and the price could head to the immediate target zone of Rs. 50,700-Rs. 51,000. A breakout past Rs. 49,000 would confirm the bullish view and strengthen the case for a move to the earlier-mentioned target. The short-term trend would turn weak if the price dips below Rs. 46,000 per 10 gm. MCX silver remained largely range bound in June. That trend is likely to persist in the short term. A breakout past Rs. 47,100-Rs. 51,700 is likely to trigger the next big move. A breakout above Rs. 52,000 would lend momentum to the upside and the price could then head to the next target of Rs. 54,500-Rs. 55,000. A fall below Rs. 47,100 would have negative implications. ( The author is a Chennai-based analyst/trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-set-to-gain-more-sheen/article31997823.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||ask us||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article31997828.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article31997826.ece
06 July 2020||SPIELBERG (AUSTRIA),||Bottas wins drama-filled season opener||Valtteri Bottas stayed calm in a stormy race to claim a measured victory for Mercedes as Formula One returned with a bang in a dramatic and season-opening Austrian Grand Prix on Sunday. Seven months after the final race of 2019, the Finn, who had started from the 12th pole position of his career, led from start to finish. Six-time champion Lewis Hamilton, who ended second, was given a five-second penalty and demoted to fourth. Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc was second while McLaren’s Lando Norris claimed his maiden podium. Hamilton, hit with a pre-race grid penalty that dropped him from second to fifth, had clashed with Red Bull's Alex Albon in the final laps, forcing the latter to spin off the track. In a race which witnessed three Safety Car interventions and was run behind closed doors at the Red Bull Ring, the Ferrari-bound Carlos Sainz finished fifth in the second McLaren ahead of Racing Point’s Sergio Perez. Pierre Gasly was seventh for Alpha Tauri and Esteban Ocon eighth on his return to racing with Renault ahead of Antonio Giovinazzi of Alfa Romeo. Sebastian Vettel, the four-time champion in his final season at Ferrari, was 10th. The drivers all wore a black T-shirt with ‘End Racism’ written on it, but six of the 20 drivers did not take the knee. Kimi Raikkonen,Max Verstappen, Charles Leclerc, Daniil Kvyat, AntonioGiovinazzi and Carlos Sainz Jr. were those who did not.  The results: 1. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) 1:30:55.739; 2 Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) +2.700s; 3. Lando Norris (McLaren) +5.491s; Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) +5.689s; 5. Carlos Sainz (McLaren) +8.903s; 6. Sergio Perez (Racing Point) +15.092s; 7. Pierre Gasly (Alpha Tauri) +16.682s; 8. Esteban Ocon (Renault) +17.456s; 9. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo) +21.146s; 10. Se bastian Vettel (+24.545s).   11. Nicholas Latifi (Williams) +31.650s; 12. Daniil Kvyat (Alpha Tauri) DNF; 13. Alexander Albon (Red Bull) DNF; Kimi Räikkönen (Alfa Romeo) DNF; George Russell (Williams) DNF; Romain Grosjean (Haas); Kevin Magnussen (Haas); Lance Stroll (Racing Point); DNF; Daniel Ricciardo (Renault); Max Verstappen (Red Bull) DNF .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-wins-drama-filled-season-opener/article31997980.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Divij Sharan — being ‘normal’ in abnormal times||These are extraordinary times — of pandemic and lockdown. But, it has given Divij Sharan the chance to experience the life of a “normal couple” with his wife Samantha in Manchester. “Conditions are improving in the UK. It has been a different lifestyle these last four months. I have never spent so much time in one place since I started playing tennis professionally,” says Divij, ranked 56 in doubles. Joint sessions “We are lucky that we have outdoor space and equipment to keep up our fitness through the lockdown. We could practice together, do drills and help each other. Obviously, it is great that we have been able to spend time at home together, which is a new experience for us,” says Samantha, ranked 180 in the World. Will Divij be able to make the trip to New York for the US Open? “The situation is getting worse in the US. Moreover, the European Union is not allowing travel from the US. It means players won’t be able to head to Europe after the US swing,” says Divij. He also points out that the doubles draw at the US Open will be half the normal, reducing his chances of getting entry. “Doubles entries close just a couple of weeks before the tournament. So, I have time to assess the situation with regard to safety, travel and ranking,” he says. Paris better option It may be easier flying to Paris for Roland Garros. “At the moment, the conditions look better for tournaments in Europe. They have a regular draw size for doubles at the French Open. So it could be easier making the cut,” he says.  “Conditions are improving in the UK. It has been a different lifestyle these last four months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-sharan-being-normal-in-abnormal-times/article31998140.ece
06 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Akash becomes India’s 66th GM||G. Akash has become the country’s 66th Grandmaster. “I am really happy to become a GM even though I was not thinking about it. I know with the process I follow, it was only a matter of time,” the 23-year-old from Chennai told The Hindu on Sunday. Akash got his third GM norm in the National senior chess championship in Majhitar (Sikkim) last year, but his rating fell short of the required Elo mark of 2500. He played another five tournaments across the world to reach that rating. For three months from January, he played in Wijk Aan Zee (The Netherlands), Copenhagen (Denmark), Prague and Liberec (Czech Republic). He attained his final norm in Bad Worishofen (Germany) in March. As for future plans, Akash, an engineering graduate from Anna University who is coached by K. Visweswaran, said he had plans for higher studies, but at the moment he wanted to focus on chess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akash-becomes-indias-66th-gm/article31997963.ece
06 July 2020||Madrid,||Real edges Athletic||Sergio Ramos scored his 22nd consecutive penalty on Sunday — his fifth goal in seven games since the restart — as Real Madrid held on for another 1-0 win over Athletic Bilbao to inch closer to winning LaLiga.  Earlier on Saturday, Chelsea retook its place in the Premier League top four beating Watford 3-0.  The results: Premier League: Burnley 1 (Tarkowski 43) drew with Sheffield United 1 (Egan 80); Newcastle 2 (Almiron 17, Shelvey 67) drew with West Ham 2 (Antonio 4, Soucek 65).   LaLiga: Athletic Bilbao 0 lost to Real Madrid 1 (Ramos 73-pen).   Saturday: Premier League: Wolves 0 lost to Arsenal 2 (Saka 43, Lacazette 86); Chelsea 3 (Giroud 28, Willian 43-pen, Barkley 90+1) bt Watford 0.   LaLiga: Granada 2 (Fernandez Luna 61-pen, Vico 86) drew with Valencia 2 (Vallejo 63, Guedes 68).   Serie A: Juventus 4 (Dybala 3, Cuadrado 29, Ronaldo 61, Djidji 87-og) bt Torino 1 (Belotti 45+6-pen); Lazio 0 lost to AC Milan 3 (Calhanoglu 23, Ibrahimovic 34-pen, Rebic 59).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-edges-athletic/article31997985.ece
06 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Sweet revenge for Valentina Gunina||Valentina Gunina of Russia won the second Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women's Speed Chess on Sunday, defeating Ukraine’s Anna Ushenina 7-5 in the final. It was sweet revenge for Gunina, who had lost to Ushenina in the final of the opening leg a week ago. Kateryna Lagno of Russia took the third spot, making short work of Iran's Sarasadat Khademalsharieh 9.5-2.5. Two more legs Two more legs remain before the Super Final on July 20. In the third Grand Prix leg, which begins on July 8, two Indians — Koneru Humpy and Dronavalli Harika — will be in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sweet-revenge-for-valentina-gunina/article31997966.ece
06 July 2020||BENGALURU,||‘Everything will be ready by September’||Odisha is on track to complete the infrastructure development for the FIFA under-17 Women’s World Cup by September, Vishal K. Dev, the State’s Sports and Youth Services Commissioner-cum-Secretary, said on Sunday. The tournament, postponed due to COVID-19, will be held from February 17 to March 7, 2021. In an Instagram Live chat with Sportstar , Vishal said the main pitch of the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar, which will host eight matches, including a quarterfinal and semifinal, is “ready as per FIFA standards”. “We are preparing three new football pitches in the city in order to give a pitch, along with the related facilities, to each of the teams that are housed here. We are confident of getting everything ready by the end of September,” he said. The Sports Secretary said the State will soon launch the FIFA Women’s World Cup legacy programme which will focus on identifying and nurturing young footballers. With limited funding and sponsorships due to the pandemic, Vishal said the priority has been on developing infrastructure for international sporting events, and making the High Performance Centres functional in their main facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/everything-will-be-ready-by-september/article31997981.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||BCCI Apex Council meet on July 17||The BCCI will work on finalising India’s revised Future Tours Program and the domestic season when it conducts its fourth Apex Council meeting on July 17. The meeting will be held online. The nine-member Council could also discuss the raging issue of Chinese sponsorship in the IPL. The Indian cricket team, which last played in the first week of March, was scheduled to tour Sri Lanka for a limited-overs series in June-July but that series has been postponed indefinitely due to the pandemic. A tour of Zimbabwe in August has also been postponed for the time being. With the cases rising rapidly in India, it is not even clear when the players can assemble for a training camp though individually, some of them have hit the nets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-apex-council-meet-on-july-17/article31997959.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen wins Chessable Masters||Riding on a brilliantly crafted victory in the first game, Magnus Carlsen kept a fighting Anish Giri at bay to win the second set 2.5-.1.5 and claim the title in the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Saturday. “Frankly, Anish played better than me in the last three games. I was just lucky to get away,” acknowledged Carlsen after the final.  The result:   Final: Set Two: Rapid (Game One): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Anish Giri (Ned).   (Game Two): Giri drew with Carlsen.   (Game Three): Carlsen drew with Giri.   (Game Four): Giri drew with Carlsen .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-wins-chessable-masters/article31997965.ece
06 July 2020||SPIELBERG,||Another bad day for Daruvala||It turned out to be a disappointing weekend for Jehan Daruvala as he finished 16th in the reverse grid race in the FIA Formula 2 championship here on Sunday. The Indian driver, making his debut, had started sixth in Saturday's race but ended 12th after being hit by Carlin Racing teammate Yuki Tsunoda in the opening lap. The 21-year-old will hope for a better show at the Red Bull Ring here next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/another-bad-day-for-daruvala/article31997969.ece
06 July 2020||Johannesburg,||de Kock wins CSA’s top award||White-ball skipper Quinton de Kock was named men’s Cricketer-of-the-Year at Cricket South Africa’s (CSA) annual awards ceremony on Saturday. He also bagged the Test Cricketer-of-the-Year while young opener Laura Wolvaardt took home the women’s Cricketer-of-the-Year and ODI Cricketer-of-the-Year awards. Pacer Lungi Ngidi was named ODI and T20 Player-of-the-Year.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-kock-wins-csas-top-award/article31997968.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The secret of how caterpillars tame ants||Scientists from the National Centre of Biological Sciences (NCBS) in Bengaluru have got fascinating insights into the relations of caterpillars and their ant hosts using advanced X-ray MicroCT technology. The intriguing caterpillar-ant associations have been a subject of study for decades. Butterflies of the family Lycaenidae, known as Blues and Hairstreaks, have over millions of years evolved a range of adaptations that have tamed their ferocious ant predators into protectors and providers. In fact, caterpillars of this family closely associate with ants, becoming strange bedfellows. Not only do ants not eat these caterpillars and pupae, they actually care for them and aggressively protect them from other predators and parasitoids, thus creating an enemy-free space for the butterfly’s early stages. The study using X-ray MicroCT technology describes the association between caterpillars of the Lilac Silverline Apharitis lilacinus butterfly and cocktail ants. This butterfly was rediscovered in India a few years ago after a gap of almost 100 years by a student Nitin Ravikanthachari. This species has an obligate association with a single species of cocktail ant called Crematogaster hodgsoni . Scientists who have been studying the relationship between the two species, found that females of the Lilac Silverline deposit eggs at the entrance of cocktail ant nests, sometimes on sand and away from plants. Caterpillars are completely dependent on the ants after hatching from eggs, and they are constantly attended by their hosts. The caterpillars live inside the ant nests, often among the ant broods, and are cared for by the tending ants just like the rest of their own brood. While the presence of the ant-associated organs in these caterpillars and their relative development with respect to the nature of ant associations is well known, the functional morphology of these organs has been poorly understood. This was because these organs get destroyed in traditional methods of dissection and staining. Dipendra Nath Basu, a PhD student under Dr. Kunte turned to X-ray microtomography, or MicroCT to shed light on the functional morphology of the ant-associated organs. The organs of caterpillars primarily studied by the scientists are called dew patches in some species and nectar glands in others. These organs produce carbohydrate-rich secretions to attract and reward the tending ants. For the most part, these sugary secretions, which ants drink readily, keeps the ants interested in tending and protecting the caterpillars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/the-secret-of-how-caterpillars-tame-ants/article31997984.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Rama, the Supreme One||In the Vishnu Sahasranama, the name Parama Spashtah is in praise of Rama. It means He whose Supremacy is obvious. But how does it suit Rama, who never revealed His Supremacy? In fact, He Himself declares He is a human being. In the Yuddha Kanda, when the celestials praise Him, He declares, “AtmAnam mAnusham manyE rAmam dasarathAthmajam — (I am a mortal, the son of Dasaratha).” In the Rama avatara, the Lord does not perform any superhuman feats. But the name Parama Spashtah is justified, because His greatness was recognised in the Ramayana by some, like Tara, Mandodari and Surpanaka, elaborated M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. Even Mareecha said to Ravana, “RamO vigrahavAn dharmah” — Rama is the embodiment of dharma. Tara’s praise of Rama brings out His sterling qualities. When Vali is mortally wounded, his wife Tara comes to the scene. When Vali finally breathes his last, she laments his death and then turns to Rama and addresses Him describing His qualities. She says He is the One who cannot be fathomed. Rama is Jitendriyah — One who has conquered His senses. She says Rama is foremost among those who adhere to dharma. In His forbearance, He is like the Earth. He has great fame. When Hanuman first meets Rama, he speaks of Rama’s shoulders. The word he uses is bAhavAh. Sanskrit has singular, dual and plural forms for nouns. Here Hanuman does not use the dual form, but plural. In other words, he does not refer to Rama’s two shoulders, but by the use of the plural, he indicates that Rama is many shouldered. This is another instance in the Ramayana, of the recognition of Rama’s Supremacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/rama-the-supreme-one/article31997910.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 08:00 IST,||Sudoku - July 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-6-2020/article31998757.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning not lost||Sania Antony has been busy the past few weeks, painting on dry twigs and leaves. Though she misses her friends at school, she gets to interact with her teacher over the phone and that keeps her spirits up. Sania is 22 and has intellectual disability. Studying at the vocational unit of Raksha Special School in Kochi, she has not yet grasped the concept of the lockdown. Her mother involves her in household chores, assigning small tasks such as folding clothes or peeling garlic and that keeps her occupied. Out of routine For people with intellectual disabilities and developmental disorders, whose lives are largely governed by routine, the new normal has been especially hard. Not being able to attend their daily therapy — physio, vocational, sensory or language — due to COVID-imposed restrictions, people with special needs have been struggling with managing movement and emotions. “The comfort and predictability of routine gives those with autism a sense of control,” says Merry Barua, founder-director of Action For Autism (AFA), a centre based in Delhi that works for the rights of individuals with autism and their families. “It is not just their routine that is affected now. Even those around them are confined to the house, and this confuses them,” she says. Vocational centres and special schools, however, have taken the challenge head on. Using technology-based interventions, they are reaching out to their students and parents. Chat groups, webinars and interactive online whiteboards have become the new norm. Tech takes AFA started online classes and Barua says she is surprised at how well the students have taken to it. “However, we advise parents to give their child a visually clear schedule for the day, which would make the situation easier and help them cope better.” Smrithi Special School in Kochi, which caters to children with intellectual disabilities, started online classes much ahead of the Government’s call for a lockdown. WhatsApp groups were formed through which teachers gave out activities pertaining to art and craft, so that parents would not have to think up something new every day. One group would have six to eight students and one teacher. “When there’s a sudden disruption in their routine, they become anxious. A number of parents would call in during the initial days and report aggressive behaviour by their wards,” says Padmini Hariharan, the principal of Smrithi. However, as days went by, the teachers drew up a schedule and called the students at a specified time every day. “Each teacher is asked to give a report about the day’s work, so we can assess the child’s progress,” she adds. Adarsh Rehabilitation School, Punarjeeva Technology Solutions and TCS together have launched Parigyan, a ‘school at home’ initiative, which reaches out to over 500 children in Kochi with cerebral palsy (CP), mental retardation (MR) and various other developmental disorders through live sessions and Jamboard (Google’s collaborative digital white board). The programme offers physiotherapy sessions using artificial intelligence and augmented reality-based fine motor therapy, which can be used as rough guides. The platform, says Robin Tommy, Head, TCS Incubation Rapid Labs, enables continual learning and improvement of cerebral, cognitive and movement capability. “We recreated existing algorithms, customised for children with special needs,” says Robin. These tutorials are backed by voice and music to make it interesting. Parental pressure In all of these measures, the parent or the caregiver plays a vital role, says Girija Nath Menon, executive secretary of Raksha Society, adding that an orientation session was organised for parents. . “I believe, we just have to rise up to the challenge, whatever it is and over the years, we have grown used to the challenges,” says Rajitha Ullas, mother of 29-year-old Indu, who has autism. Indu used to go to her vocational centre before COVID-19 hit, and now helps her mother with household chores. “She misses going to the centre, but I can see that she has adapted well. She has even adjusted well to wearing a mask,” says Rajitha. Another major concern for parents is the specialised treatment their children need. “A sudden stop in physio, sensory integration, and occupational therapies could lead to emotional stress,” says Anas K, who is a neurophysiotherapist and managing partner of Moveaze, a physiotherapy and rehabilitation centre in Kozhikode, which has launched online physiotherapy sessions. “Most people with intellectual disability need some kind of therapy and the lack of it can lead to tightening and weakness of the muscles and joint stiffness.” Anas also points out that it is not safe to blindly follow a routine from the Internet, as each individual has a specific need. It best to consult with the person’s existing therapist. It is about constantly pushing the boundaries, says special educator Shruti Arora, from Moradabad, who specialises in autism spectrum condition. “It is extremely demanding for most parents as they have to juggle household chores and jobs. How each family adjusts to the situation is different. However, they seem to have settled into a beautiful new routine,” she says.  Looking ahead The Kerala Government’s Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK), a comprehensive programme for the development of school education, has launched a digital curriculum for children with cerebral palsy, autism, hearing impairment, visual impairment, intellectual disability and learning disability. Made available through Telegram and WhatsApp, children can access the study material with help from parents. The study material is predominantly in Malayalam.   A number of parents would call in during the initial days and report aggressive behaviour by their wards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/learning-not-lost/article31998363.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Workout plan||A 10-minute warmup should include squats or lunges, easy push-ups, jogging on the spot. Then, wear the vest and perform:  Plank 1 minute  Mountain climbers 1 minute  Assisted pull-ups or regular pull-ups 10 reps  Squats 20 reps  Squat jumps 10 reps  Lunges 20 reps  Plyometric lunges 10 reps  Jogging on the spot or around an area 1 minute  Box jumps 10  Walking or marching on the spot or stationary cycling in an upright position: 1 minute Rest for two minutes and repeat thrice. Cool down and stretch. The full routine will take 25 to 30 minutes excluding the warmup and cool down. Since it is a high intensity workout, ensure your form is correct. Practice the routine with the vest only when you are sure your form without it is correct. Nisha Varma is an ACSM-certified exercise physiologist. A monthly column with exercises for a home workout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/workout-plan/article31998353.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Q& A||Is there any home remedy for dry eyes. Or any particular diet? There is some anecdotal evidence that deficiency of Vitamins A and D can cause or worsen dry eye symptoms. A diet rich in vitamin A or supplements of these vital nutrients can be useful in relief of symptoms of dry eye. Omega-3 fatty acids are often considered useful in the management of dry eye. Good dietary sources of omega-3 fatty acids include salmon, sardines, herring and cod. Fish oils from these sources are excellent sources of omega-3. Flax seed oil is a good vegetarian source. Since dehydration can also worsen symptoms of dry eyes, intake of sufficient amounts of water every day can also improve dry eye symptoms. Frequent blinking, limiting use of air conditioners, television, computers and mobile phones and using good quality sunglasses are often sufficient home remedies that can supplement medical treatment of dry eyes. Occasionally certain medications, like blood pressure drugs, anti-depressants, anti-histamines and oral contraceptives can worsen dry eye symptoms. These medications may be altered or modified or dosage adjusted after obtaining the physician’s opinion and advice. My father is steadily losing his eyesight. He suffers with headaches but refuses to visit a doctor. Could you please guide me? It is possible that both declining vision and headache are unrelated symptoms, but he needs to see an eye doctor immediately. It is possible he may have early cataracts or other potentially blinding diseases like glaucoma, age related retinal degeneration or other degenerative conditions causing permanent loss of vision. Most eye diseases, if detected early on have excellent treatment options to prevent progressive vision loss. Rarely, some forms of glaucoma, ocular inflammation, sinusitis affecting the eye may have vision loss associated with headache. Sometimes, it may only be a simple refractive error requiring spectacle correction that may reverse his symptoms. Counselling your father to undergo simple eye tests by a qualified eye doctor is crucial. He can be reassured that a two-hour wait and simple eye examination will save him his sight, forever.  Dr R Krishnadas is Senior Medical Consultant in Glaucoma Services, Aravind Eye Care System, Madurai  Nothing in this column is intended to be, and is not, a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Please seek independent advice from a licensed practitioner if you have any questions regarding a medical condition. Email us with your questions at mp_health@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/q-a/article31998358.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||No help for the helps||After her husband died in 2012, Rita Devi, 36, went to her village in Chapra, Bihar. With opportunities to eke out a living scarce, in 2014 she boarded a train to Delhi with her four children to seek employment as a domestic worker. By March 2020 Ms. Devi was working part-time in five homes, but when the novel coronavirus hit the country and a nationwide lockdown was announced, she suddenly became jobless. “I came here to earn as there was no work in the village. I never foresaw a situation like this when I left my village,” said Ms. Devi, her elder daughter looking on. The family lives in a one-room house at Devli in south Delhi and has not been able to pay the rent for the past three months. Ms. Devi has borrowed Rs. 10,000 from a neighbour to tide over the lockdown downturn. “The government should help us,” she said. Ms. Devi’s is not a lone case. Many of the dozen-odd domestic workers The Hindu interviewed said they have lost their employment due to the virus outbreak and are finding it hard to make ends meet despite borrowing money. The lack of social security for domestic workers in Delhi has made the blow harder on them. Though States such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have welfare boards for domestic workers and many others have unorganised workers’ welfare boards, Delhi does not have either. The national capital has also not fixed minimum wages for domestic workers as done by other States such as Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, among others, according to officials. “Compared to other States, Delhi is worse in terms of laws for welfare of domestic workers. There is a lack of will on the part of the government,” said Christin Mary, national coordinator of National Domestic Workers’ Movement, which has a presence in more than 16 States, including Delhi. “About 80%-90% domestic workers in Delhi and Mumbai have lost their jobs,” she said. A national policy for domestic workers, which can be a safety net, is still in its draft state and a Central government Act for welfare of unorganised sector workers is implemented more in the breach across the country, according to experts. After the lockdown, the Delhi government announced Rs. 5,000 for registered construction workers and later extended it to drivers of licenced mini and rural public transport. But no such help was provided to domestic workers. A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment on their exclusion. Plight of workers Ms. Devi said that a week ago she finally found some work — of cleaning the outdoor areas of two buildings, but the earnings are less. “Luckily, my landlord is not pressuring me for rent. But I have to pay him for the pending three months sooner or later,” she said. “Earlier we used to get cooked food from the government school in Durga Vihar. Now they have stopped supplying that too.” In west Delhi’s Basai Darapur, Renu, a house help who used to work in four households, hasn’t gone to work since March 20; none of them are willing to call her back at the moment. For many such as Ms. Renu, it’s been status quo for the last three and a half months. In Basai Darapur where most men are either rickshaw-pullers or factory workers and the women house helps, many families have left for their native villages after waiting for work for close to three months. When The Hindu visited these shanties in May, seven women were still waiting to be called by their employers. Of the seven, five have since left for their villages, mostly in Uttar Pradesh. “There was no work. Here in the village, at least there is no stress over how to arrange for the next meal,” said Neetu, speaking over the phone from her village near Allahabad. Ms. Renu and others who decided to stay back are struggling to survive. A mother of three minor children, Ms. Renu said that she called all of her employers each time lockdown restrictions were relaxed, but they are yet not ready to let her in again. They’re not willing to pay as well, she said. “One of them called and told me to tell her if I needed money. When I did to ask for Rs. 2,000, she refused saying her husband has been out of work too,” she said. Ms. Renu’s husband, who used to work at an eatery in Ghaziabad, is also out of work because the stall owner hasn’t reopened yet. “Twice, he has worked at a construction site and earned Rs. 800 a day because we ran out of money,” she said. Ms. Renu said they have stopped buying milk and fruits on a daily basis ever since they felt the monetary pinch. Meenakshi (25), Ms. Renu’s neighbour and the mother of a one-year-old son, said she is going for cleaning work to one house out of the four she earlier used to work at. “I resumed work at this house on July 1. Thank god they called me,” she said. The last three months since the announcement of the lockdown, she had to take a loan of Rs. 6,000 to be able to take care of her son and old mother. Ms. Meenakshi has been in the middle of a divorce with her husband since she was three months pregnant. Another Basai Darapur house help, Simran, 20, said she has also not been called for work since the lockdown began. In Jasola in south Delhi, 30-year-old Omwati Devi, from Uttar Pradesh, said she was fired by others because she works at a doctor’s house. “In the first week of June, I was working in the kitchen when the person who lives there asked me where else I work apart from his house. I told him I work at the doctor’s house. He then told me that his landlord was putting a lot of pressure on him to fire me,” said the mother of two children. “I had worked at his house for two whole months during the lockdown and still he fired me. I have small children and my husband is also out of work. This is wrong,” she said. Neglect by govt. Though the domestic workers have been hit the most now, the problem is more deep-seated. The unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act was passed by Parliament in 2008 but after 12 years, it is still not applicable in the city as the Delhi government has not formed rules based on the Act to implement it, according to officials. The Act covers domestic workers and provides formulation of social security schemes for life and disability cover, health and maternity benefits and old age protection by the Central government. The State governments are mandated under the Act to formulate suitable welfare schemes for unorganised sector workers relating to provident fund, employment injury benefits, housing, education schemes for children, skill upgradation of workers, financial assistance and old age homes. Explaining the reasons behind the Act not being adopted in Delhi, a senior government official said, “Though the Act was passed in 2008, it was only in 2014-2015 that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs gave the Delhi government the power to execute it. In 2015-16, it was sent to the Law Department [Delhi government] and kept going back and forth.” Change in policy The Narendra Modi-led NDA government, after coming to power in 2014, started working to codify and simplify 44 existing labour laws into four codes. One of the codes, The Code on Wages Bill, has been cleared. But the other three codes are yet to be passed by Parliament. The Code on Social Security, 2019, introduced in the Lok Sabha but not yet passed, will subsume eight laws, including the unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008. “We are not making rules under the Act [2008] as it will be subsumed by the new code. We are also not registering workers under it,” the official said. But Ms. Mary said it was only an excuse by the Delhi government. “The Act was passed in 2008 and had the Delhi government wanted, it could have registered workers under it and formed welfare boards before the simplification of laws began in 2015. The Delhi Assembly can still pass a separate legislation for welfare of domestic workers like Maharashtra has done, if it wants,” she said. The Delhi government has also not allowed forming of unions for domestic workers and the matter is currently pending in the High Court, according to officials. “Out of the 16 States we work in, in 12 States we have formed domestic workers’ unions. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, among others, have registered domestic workers’ unions. It offers better bargaining power and better facilities for domestic workers,” said Ms. Mary. Back in Devli village, clutching a Rs. 800 mobile phone with a faded keypad, which she had bought three years ago, Ms. Devi said, “I got the saree I’m wearing from the house I was working in last Diwali. But I doubt whether I will get any this year. Every fourth or fifth day, I call them and ask whether I can resume work. Sometimes, if I’m in the neighbourhood, I go and ring the doorbell too. But they are yet to hire me back.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-help-for-the-helps/article31998144.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 2,244 fresh virus cases, Delhi’s tally touches 99,444||The Capital reported 2,244 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 99,444, said a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Sunday. The bulletin also mentioned that 63 deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total deaths to 3,067. Of the total cases, 71,339 people have recovered and there are 25,038 active cases. In the past 24 hours, 3,083 people have recovered. Govt. on testing The government said 9,873 RTPCR tests and 13,263 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of tests to 6,43,504, which is 33,868 tests per million. The health bulletin stated that 15,564 patients are currently under home isolation while out of the 15,201 available hospital beds, 5,356 are occupied. The COVID-19 care centres in the city have 7,869 beds out of which 1,726 are occupied. Out of the 544 beds at dedicated COVID centres, 148 are occupied. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, after visiting the new DRDO-built Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel COVID-19 Hospital here, said there is no scarcity of hospital beds as of now. “We have over 15,000 beds out of which 5,300 are occupied. There is a paucity of ICU beds. If there is any spike in COVID cases, these ICU beds are very critical for us,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He thanked the Centre on behalf of Delhiites for building the hospital. “The 1000-bed facility is a much-needed measure at this point of time to ease out the provision of beds to the patients. Even though the number of cases that require hospitalisation has gone down, this facility will prove to be useful for a lot of people who are in urgent need of beds,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-2244-fresh-virus-cases-capitals-tally-touches-99444/article31998166.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||Artistes challenge DU’s decision to scrap ECA quota admissions||Delhi University’s decision to scrap the extra curricular activities (ECA) category quota for art and culture from the academic year 2020-21 has been challenged before the Delhi High Court by two young artistes seeking admission for undergraduate courses. The petition, jointly filed by Hritika Aneesh and Gokul C.R., have urged for a direction to the university to not to discontinue admission based on 14 categories of ECA in undergraduate courses. Till last year Delhi University was admitting students under the category of ECA, and about 15% of the grace marks were provided for those who qualified from this category. However, the university has recently announced that the entire ECA category for art and cultural forms have been discarded as the trials could not be conducted due to the pandemic. The plea said the university has only included National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) and sports category and all other category of extra curricular troupe have been ‘arbitrarily ignored’. Constitutional violation “This exclusion of a particular category of students who in art and culture will actually result in absolute injustice to the students. The entire group of art and culture (ECA) eligible students will be wiped off from the university system for one year for no fault of theirs, and the same per se  violates Article 14 of the Constitution,” the petition said. The plea stated that the two young artistes have completed their Class XII board examinations and have more than a decade of training in Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam and Kathakali which are recognised traditional art forms practised in the country. They said their career prospects have been jeopardised by the “unilateral and arbitrary” act of the university. Virtual platforms They asked for an order to the university to organise the trials of candidates under all ECA category on virtual platforms. “If necessary, to call students after uploading videos of performances in small batches for trials after maintaining social distancing, ensuring COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government,” the plea said. They also asked for the university to carry out decentralised verifications through the colleges to conduct their own trials while maintaining social distancing. The plea said similarly-placed students like them have been undergoing training for many years in their school programmes with the legitimate expectation that they would be able to score certain extra percentage of marks while seeking admission in the university. They said that the university’s decision has affected more than 1,000 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/artistes-challenge-dus-decision-to-scrap-eca-quota-admissions/article31998142.ece
06 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||8 killed, four hurt as fire engulfs ‘candle’ factory in Ghaziabad||At least eight persons, including seven women, were killed and four others were injured when fire engulfed a ‘candle’ factory in a village near Modinagar in Ghaziabad district on Sunday afternoon, officials said. Ram Kishore, Station Fire Officer Modinagar, said two fire tenders were pressed into service to bring the fire under control. “The cause of the fire is being ascertained,” he said. Local sources alleged the factory, run by Nitin Chaudhary, made light firecrackers, particularly sparklers and party poppers used in birthday parties, and was in operation for a long time. Local media reports said explosive material could be seen at the site. “It was an illegal unit being run in a building spread over 200 square yards. When it caught fire, there was an explosion and the roof came down. Ten workers were brought out by locals and around 20 people were trapped in the factory. Many of the employees were women who were given raw material to make sparklers at home,” said a source, requesting anonymity. Neeraj Jadaun, Superintendent of Police (Rural) told The Hindu that it was not a cracker unit. “It was essentially a small unit run from home where sparklers were made. Prima facie it seemed it was an assembling unit, running with permission, where the cavities of candles were filled with a small amount of explosive material. There was no explosion, as such. The building was under construction and the roof was covered with a plastic sheet, which caught fire. The cause of the fire is being investigated,” he said.  FIR registered An FIR has been registered against Mr. Chaudhary and police team has been sent to nab him, he added. Taking note of the incident, U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed the district officials to immediately reach the spot and providerelief to the injured. A compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each has been announced for the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-killed-four-hurt-as-fire-engulfs-candle-factory-in-ghaziabad/article31998172.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||OBE won’t work, students say on Day 2 of mock tests||On the second day of mock tests for the Open Book Examinations (OBE) on Sunday, students at Delhi University continued to face various technical hurdles and called for the scrapping of the planned examinations. Amreen Kholi, a third-year BA (English literature) student from Punjab, faced difficulties downloading as well as uploading the question paper on the first and second days of the mock test. She believed there was no way the university would be able to pull off the final exams. Manish Kumar, a final-year BA student at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, said: “The screen kept displaying some ‘gateway error’.” He was among the few to have logged on to the portal half-an-hour in advance. After multiple attempts he was able to download the question paper, but many of his classmates were unable to download it. “This is when not everyone even attended the exam,” he pointed out. “I don’t even have any book... on top of that, I don’t know if I should study for this or prepare for entrance exams,” he added. Many students also took to social media to raise their complaints. Final year postgraduate student Shivam Sati from Uttrakhand expressed anxiety over his inability to study as there was no electricity at his house for the last two days and he said that the inverter would soon go out. “Yesterday’s horror show of mock tests has clearly shown that online exams won’t work. Why is DU VC so adamant?” he tweeted. “This was the second day of the mock test and feedback continues to be quite painful and sad,” teacher’s group Academics for Action and Development said in a statement, adding that it had raised concerns about website crashes, missing question papers and other issues, but no improvement seems to have been made. The group also said that students approaching common service centres were told that there was no information to provide facilities for OBE. The group also reiterated its demand to scrap the examinations. In a related development, the DU Teacher’s Association president Rajib Ray, speaking on the university’s recent decision to spend Rs. 2 lakh as reimbursement towards visually impaired students, said it would be too late and too less to adequately compensate students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/obe-wont-work-students-say-on-day-2-of-mock-tests/article31998150.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||Survey shows 78% people have started going to work||In a recent telephonic survey among residents of the National Capital Region (NCR), it was found that about 95% of all respondents wore masks as a precaution against the spread of COVID-19, when they stepped out in the last one week. Findings from the third round of surveys undertaken by the National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) relate to trends in social distancing and risk perception among respondents, ways in which households have been effected, access to welfare measures and difficulties in getting back to work and staying safe, the report notes. The survey was carried out in mid-June when the lockdown restrictions were being relaxed but the number of infections in NCR were rising. Areas surveyed Areas surveyed included metropolitan areas of Delhi as well as rural areas in the NCR’s districts in Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the NCAER said. The survey threw up interesting information about the precautions taken by the respondents when they went outside or after returning home in the last one week. Among rural and urban respondents, a whopping 95.3% said that they wore masks or nose and mouth coverings. Those who said they washed their hands with soap were fewer at 65.7% and those who said they maintained a distance of three feet or more were even fewer at 45.4%. While differences in responses among rural and urban respondents were minor in most cases, the percentage of rural respondents using sanitisers were only 57.1% compared to 75.9% of urban respondents. Out of those surveyed, 73% respondents had reportedly gone outside in the last week for some purpose or the other. Among activities people had resumed, about 78% people had started going to work, 18% had resumed social activities and 12% were reportedly visiting places of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/survey-shows-78-people-have-started-going-to-work/article31998168.ece
06 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Crackdown on gangsters in U.P.||In what could be described as the Vikas Dubey effect, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police have started attaching and demolishing the illegal properties of dreaded gangsters Sunder Bhati, Satveer Bansal, Anil Dujana, and others. The crackdown on regional mafia began on Saturday following instructions of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a day after eight policemen were gunned down in a Kanpur village in a botched up operation to arrest history-sheeter Vikas Dubey. The action was taken under Section 14 (1) of the U.P. Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act which allows attachment of illegal properties of gangsters and anti-social elements and their associates to curb their activities, said Sriparna Ganguly, Additional Commissioner of Police. “The structures that have been illegally built by encroaching government land are being demolished,” she told The Hindu.  “Following Chief Minister’s instructions, Police Commissioner (Alok Singh) ordered the attachment of illegal properties worth Rs. 7 crore which includes land and vehicles,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida. Land reclaimed He said, as part of the drive, illegally occupied land of water bodies was reclaimed and fences were demolished. “The drive would continue and illegal properties would be attached,” he added. On Sunday, properties of Anil Dujana gang member Chanderpal were attached and his luxury cars impounded, said Harish Chandra, DCP, Central Noida. After the Chief Minister’s instruction to prepare a list of gangsters active in the State, a list, allegedly prepared by the Special Task Force of Uttar Pradesh, is doing the rounds in social media wherein there are names of 12 ‘gangsters’ from western U.P. The list includes Sunder Bhati alias Netaji, Anil Dujana, Anil Bhati, Singh Raj Bhati, Sushil alias Moonch, Ankit Gurjar, Amit Kasana, Akash Jat and Udham Singh. Akhilesh Kumar, Additional Commissioner (Law and order), Gautam Buddh Nagar, said he was not aware of any such list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/crackdown-on-gangsters-in-up/article31998173.ece
06 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Guwahati revises day-old lockdown order||The Assam government on Sunday revised its day-old order on partial relaxation of total lockdown in Kamrup (Metropolitan) district after the State recorded the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 positive cases. Guwahati comprises much of the district under 14-day lockdown since June 29. Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna had on Saturday issued an order relaxing certain services. But the window for grocery shops and wholesale dealers was reduced after Guwahati recorded 777 of the 1,202 COVID-19 cases later in the day. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 11,001 with 4,657 of them active and 14 having died. State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said community spread has made the situation in Guwahati “serious”. Most of the 2,741 cases recorded in the Kamrup (Metropolitan) district over the past 10 days are from Guwahati. ‘Can’t blame States’ “We cannot blame other States now as the disease has spread to the community. People with no recent travel history are testing positive. I appeal to the residents to strictly maintain the guidelines lockdown,” he said. He said the situation would be reviewed on Wednesday or Thursday. “People are affected... we will try to maintain a balance between life and economy.” Among those who tested positive on Saturday were about 30 employees of a TV channel and two Raj Bhavan staffers, which made the authorities declare the gubernatorial complex as a containment zone. The Gauhati High Court has also ordered the cancellation of activities, except urgent matters, in all courts as some lawyers and judges tested positive. Mr. Sarma named Lithikesh, a post-graduate student from Mysuru at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, as the State’s first plasma donor. The Minister also said the drug Remdesivir was used on four patients according to protocol. “Assam is fourth among the States in terms of tests conducted per million people. We have conducted over 4.55 lakh tests and wish to complete 5 lakh soon,” he said. Altogether 39 COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the intensive care units of government-run hospitals, including five medical colleges, since Saturday. Seventeen people are on oxygen and ventilator support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/guwahati-revises-day-old-lockdown-order/article31998182.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||More spells of rain likely in the Capital||Heavy overnight showers lashed the Capital on Sunday bringing some relief from the heat. The day remained cloudy but did not witness rain. The Met department said that the city received 34.8 mm of rainfall till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. Weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road, Ridge and Ayanagar received 48.6 mm, 38.2 mm, 46.6 mm and 35.2 mm rainfall receptively. The maximum temperature settled at 34.4 degrees Celsius, which is 2 degrees below normal for the season and the minimum at 22.2 degrees — six degrees cooler than normal. Forecast for Monday The Met department has forecast a generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers for Monday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 35 and 23 degrees Celsius. Generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain/thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely to continue on Tuesday as well. Heavy rain is likely at isolated places also on Wednesday, the Met department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-spells-of-rain-likely-in-the-capital/article31998147.ece
06 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda dares Manohar Lal to contest upcoming by-election||Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday said Chief Minister Manohar Lal should himself contest the upcoming bypoll from the Baroda Assembly seat if he was confident of seeking votes on the performance of the ruling BJP-JJP government in the State. The death of Congress’ sitting MLA Krishan Hooda in April has necessitated the bypoll for the Baroda seat in Sonipat district, the date for which is yet to be announced. “If the State government is confident of its development work, then Chief Minister Manohar Lal should himself contest the Baroda by-election. If he decides to contest the bypoll, I am ready to fight against him in the electoral battle,” said Mr. Hooda in Sonipat. “Let the Baroda by-elections decide if people are satisfied with the development work and vote on the popularity of the government, instead of 2024,” added the former Chief Minister. Hitting out at the BJP-JJP government, Mr. Hooda said the government has failed to perform and deliver on all fronts and the people were fed-up of its anti-people policies. “The BJP government increased the debt on the State from Rs. 60,000 crore to Rs. 2 lakh crore. Despite this, the BJP did not establish any majour university, medical college or large industry in its entire tenure. All sections of society are under distress during the BJP rule,” he said.  ‘Govt. covering truth’ “Haryana used to be ahead in development, investment, sports and employment during the Congress government, but is now the State which tops in crime, corruption, unemployment and drugs menace. Irregularities in the purchase of paddy besides alleged scams in mining and liquor sectors are in front of everyone to see. Instead of investigating into allegations of scams, the government went all out to cover the truth,” alleged Mr. Hooda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hooda-dares-manohar-lal-to-contest-upcoming-by-election/article31998178.ece
06 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Court orders FIR against IAS officer for illegal construction||The district and sessions court here has ordered registration of an FIR against three dozen senior officials, including an IAS officer, and some companies for illegal construction, encroachment and running commercial activities in a notified open space in Sector 94. Directing the registration of the FIR in Sector 10A police station, Sessions Judge M.M. Dhonchak, in his order, said: “Given the facts incorporated in the complaint coupled with the documents, which have been enclosed with the complaint, this court finds that the matter needs to be investigated for which lodging the FIR is sine qua non”. About the six senior officers named in the case, including senior IAS officer, the court said the complainant did not intend against them, but the probe agency might decide on their prosecution if it was able to gather any evidence against them. The case pertains to encroachment, illegal construction, throwing of garbage and running of commercial activities on land reserved as a green belt in a notified open space in Sector 94. The accused officials in the case belong to the Department of Town and Country Planning, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and the Forest Department and Pollution Control Board, among others. The complainant, Raman Sharma, alleged that the offences were committed under Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act, Environment (Protection) Act, Forest Conservation Act and Prevention of Corruption Act. Mr. Sharma told The Hindu that he was working on a mission to “clean up” the city from corruption. He said that FIRs were already ordered in four cases and a decision was likely in two more cases on July 7. He said he had been working on 180 cases of violation of various laws. Sector 10 SHO Inspector Sanjay Kumar said had received the court order and is working on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-orders-fir-against-ias-officer-for-illegal-construction/article31998159.ece
06 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Senior U.P. health official tests positive||Deepak Ohri, Chief Medical Officer of Gautam Buddh Nagar, tested positive for COVID-19 late on Saturday, officials said. In his absence, Additional CMO Nepal Singh will officiate. According to health department officials, Dr. Ohri showed influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms after his visit to various containment zones, including JJ Cluster colony, during the week. Dr. Ohri is one of the two senior officials of the district to be tested positive on Saturday when the district reported 83 fresh cases and five deaths. Meanwhile, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Sadar) Prasoon Dwivedi and his wife also tested positive on Saturday. Gautam Buddh Nagar has three SDMs, out of which two have tested positive in the last ten days. Earlier Gunja Singh, SDM (Jewar) and her husband Shailendra Kumar Singh, ADM (City), Ghaziabad, tested positive for COVID-19 on June 28. “The officials are in isolation and are doing fine. Their office premises have been sanitised and the people who have come in their contact are being tested,” said District Magistrate Suhas LY. In a related development, 13 inmates of the juvenile home in Buddh Nagar have tested positive during the ongoing mass surveillance drive in the district. According to a health department official, the infected inmates have been sent to Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/senior-up-health-official-tests-positive/article31998170.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Citizenship fear’ led to violence, says chargesheet||The Delhi police in a chargesheet filed on the killing of Dilbar Negi, a sweet shop employee, during the north-east Delhi riots in February, have mentioned that all the 12 accused in the case were under the apprehension that if they failed to produce “documents” they would lose their citizenship. The accused were identified with the help of eyewitnesses, CCTV footage and technical surveillance, said the police. According to the chargesheet, all the 12 accused — Mohd. Shahnawaz alias Shanu, Mohd. Faizal, Azad, Asraf Ali, Rashid, Monu, Shahrukh, Mohd. Shoaib, Parvez, Mohammed Tahir, Salman and Sonu Saifi — gave a common statement before the police that they were informed by their friends during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year that “they would lose their citizenship if they failed to produce their documents”. The chargesheet mentions that when the riots broke out in Shiv Vihar on February 24-25, Dilbar Negi, 20, got trapped inside the second floor of the sweet shop. On February 26, his charred body was recovered from the shop. The police said he was burnt alive and his limbs were missing. The chargesheet also states that the mob had gathered in the area to show “power of Muslims”. One of the accused, Salman, allegedly told the police that he had attended an anti-CAA protest at Brijpuri culvert, where he heard advocate Bhanu Pratap and students of Jamia Millia islamia address the crowd on the Act. There his friends told him about the “document and citizenship” issue. The accused have been charged under Section 302 (murder), Section 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and other relevant sections of IPC. The chargesheet also mentions that the anti-CAA protests were organised at seve n locations in north-east Delhi and they “polarised and tensed the environment”. All 12 accused in the case are in judicial custody. A supplementary chargesheet will be filed as many other accused were involved in rioting outside DRP Convent Public School and Rajdhani Public School. They were also involved in damaging property and killing Dilbar Negi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/citizenship-fear-led-to-violence-says-chargesheet/article31998169.ece
06 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha GST collection falls due to slowdown||Odisha has registered a negative growth of 32.79% in collection of Goods and Service Tax during the first quarter of current fiscal as the total collection could be around Rs. 1,560.20 crore against Rs. 2,321.39 crore collected in the corresponding period of the previous year. “The GST collection of June 2020 is Rs. 759.17 crore against the collection of Rs. 804.49 crore during the corresponding period of last year which dropped by Rs. 45 crore (-5.6%),” said S. K. Lohani, Commissioner of Commercial Tax and GST. Mr. Lohani said the unprecedented slowdown of the State economy due to COVID-19 and consequential lockdown of non-essential business activities from last week of March to third week of May impacted the revenue collection. However, due to a number of relaxations granted by GST Council along with regular persuasion and facilitation by the field officers and gradual unlocking, the situation in the month of June resulted in marked improvement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-gst-collection-falls-due-to-slowdown/article31998179.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU V-C asks students to develop Apps||Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University M. Jagadesh Kumar on Sunday asked students and faculty of the university to showcase their talent and expertise in developing Apps and contribute to the national cause. He asked them to brainstorm and come up with ideas by participating in the “AatmaNirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge” of the Central government to develop Indian Apps. “You are aware how certain Apps, which have recently been banned in India, could have posed a threat to our national security and compromised the user data privacy. This needs an immediate remedial action by developing our own Apps,” Mr. Kumar said. He asked them to seek the support of the university’s Atal Incubation Centre and Jawaharlal Nehru University Foundation for Innovation (AIC-JNUFI), which can provide tech-support and guidance. “The AIC-JNUFI is formed to promote and support start-ups at JNU in various sectors like health, IT, energy/environment, food/agriculture, rural technologies, and other areas, without limiting the scope of activities,” Mr. Kumar says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-v-c-asks-students-to-develop-apps/article31998145.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||JNU told to allow couple to re-enter hostel||The Delhi High Court has asked Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) to permit a PhD scholar and his spouse, who were denied re-entry after they had gone out for field work just before the lockdown in March, to resume their habitation in the hostel for married students. Justice Najmi Waziri noted that the university’s hostel for married couples is the only home where Deepak Kumar and his spouse had been staying for the past few years. “Their access to same cannot be denied to them except by due process of law,” the High Court said. “Simply because they had gone out on some fieldwork, they cannot be denied re-entry. They have no other place to go and the petitioner [Mr. Kumar] is unlikely to get an alternate accommodation in a hurry especially in this trying time,” Justice Waziri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-told-to-allow-couple-to-re-enter-hostel/article31998157.ece
06 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||MCG fined for failing to give details under the RTI Act||The Haryana State Information Commission has imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram for “detriment suffered by the appellant” due to non-supplying of information under the RTI Act. The panel also issued show-cause notices to the State Public Information Officers and directed them to furnish information to the appellant within a fortnight of the order free-of-cost. RTI activist P.P. Kapoor had filed an application before the MCG in 2019, seeking detail regarding a firm handling solid waste management. But the SPIOs of the four zones failed to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mcg-fined-for-failing-to-give-details-under-the-rti-act/article31998158.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Open today||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/open-today/article31998162.ece
06 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. rallies against fuel price hike||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Sunday took out a “cycle yatra” to deliver letters to all the 10 MPs, requesting their intervention to reduce fuel prices. Mr. Kumar said, “It was unfortunate that barring BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and AAP MP Sanjay Singh, none of the other MPs from Delhi came out of their houses to receive the letters.” He added that the Congress was doing this on behalf of the people of Delhi to hold the elected representatives responsible for the increasing costs of fuel. He accused the BJP and AAP for profiteering at the cost of the city residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-cong-rallies-against-fuel-price-hike/article31998167.ece
06 July 2020||July 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Horses for courses||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/horses-for-courses/article31998175.ece
06 July 2020||Dehradun,||Three women swept away in Uttarakhand||Three women were swept away in the overflowing Kosi river in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Sunday, with the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) recovering the body of one of the victims, sources said. Several roads were damaged as water overflowed from rivers and canal in the State that was lashed by heavy rain in the last 24 hours. The sudden rise in water levels of the Kosi in Khairna swept away three women. SDRF teams launched search and rescue operations in the area after being informed about the incident by locals, they said. Despite the river being in spate, a SDRF team recovered one body. The deceased was identified as 30-year-old Kamla Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-women-swept-away-in-uttarakhand/article31998176.ece
06 July 2020||Chandigarh,||Heavy rain in Haryana, Punjab areas||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Haryana and Punjab on Sunday morning, bringing down the mercury by a few notches and providing the much-needed relief to people from the sultry weather. Chandigarh and its adjoining towns of Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana also received rain. Karnal, Hisar, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Jind, Kaithal and Ambala were among other places in Haryana to be lashed by rain. Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Rupnagar in Punjab also received showers. Sultry weather conditions had prevailed in these States and common capital Chandigarh for the past week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heavy-rain-in-haryana-punjab-areas/article31998180.ece
06 July 2020||New Delhi,||St. Stephen’s to drop aptitude test; interviews to go online||Admissions to St. Stephen’s college this year will be based on an applicant’s Class 12 board marks and an online interview, according to the college prospectus released on Sunday. Earlier, admissions would be based on three components, which would also include an aptitude test. Introduced in the academic year 2009-2010, this practice has been dropped on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, the college’s admission in-charge Mahesh Gopalan said. Registrations for admission to the college will begin on July 7 and will go on till July 18. Dates for the release of cut-off lists and interviews will be announced later, the prospectus notes. The candidates will be judged on three broad criteria, the prospectus states. It include their academic potential and suitability for the chosen subject, their potential to participate in co-curricular activities and their “general awareness and sense of values” which would examine a candidates “personal outlook.” With regard to the platform for the interview, Mr. Gopalan said that they would take some time to finalise it. Admissions under the sports category will be overseen by a committee to be set up by the principal. These will be undertaken based on three components, of which 45% weightage would be given to certificates, 40% to marks in Class 12 exams and 15% based on interview, which would also involve sports related questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/st-stephens-to-drop-aptitude-test-interviews-to-go-online/article31998148.ece
